Documentation of the reactions of individuals and communities across the United States and elsewhere (Naples, Italy) to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in New York City; the Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia; and the crash of the hijacked plane in Shanksville, Pennsylvania; in audio, video, and photographs from 2001-2002.
This collection contains unpublished correspondence between Woody Guthrie, two of his wives, and British recording distributor, Ken Lindsay.
The collection consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, graphic materials (including color slides, black-and-white negatives, and photographic prints), and moving images collected during a field research project documenting Italian American occupational, cultural, and religious traditions in several locations in the western United States. Fieldwork was conducted in Gilroy, California; San Pedro, California; Pueblo, Colorado; Carbon County, Utah; Walla Walla, Washington; and several mining and ranching communities in Nevada by staff of the American Folklife Center. The project was part of the Quincentenary Celebration of Christopher Columbus sponsored by the Library of Congress in 1992. It produced a traveling exhibition and book of essays, both titled, "Old Ties, New Attachments : Italian-American Folklife in the West."
The collection contains hooked rugs and documentation of the craftsmanship of rug hooking artist, Mary Sheppard Burton, of Germantown, Maryland. Her Tell Me ‘Bout Series consists of 12 rugs created between 1993 and 2005 that interpret the history of her family.
Documentation of the monthly 1979 Neptune Plaza Concert Series, which consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, and photographs of performers of country, Irish, Cajun, gospel, and Mexican harp music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Library of Congress, from May through September 1979, sponsored by the American Folklife Center and the National Council for the Traditional Arts.
The collection consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, photographs, and moving images documenting the performance of Armenian music and dance, bluegrass music, zydeco music, Ghanaian music, Afro-Cuban music, and Southeast Asian music featuring Laotian, Vietnamese, and Hmong performers recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Library of Congress.
The collection consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, and photographs documenting the performance of Irish music, Ghanaian music and dance, Japanese koto music, Mexican string band music, Senegalese music, and West Virginia old-time music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Thomas Jefferson Building, Library of Congress, at concerts from April through October 1982, sponsored by the American Folklife Center and the National Council for the Traditional Arts.
The collection consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, and photographs documenting the performance of French-Canadian music and dance, Polish-style polka, old-time bluegrass music, Bengali music, bluegrass music, vallenato-style Colombian music, and gospel music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Library of Congress.
The collection consists of manuscript materials, sound recordings, photographs, and moving images documenting the performance of Peking Opera, Swiss folk music, Bluegrass music, Bulgarian folk music, Javanese gamelan music and dance, and gospel music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Library of Congress.
Manuscript materials, sound recordings, photographs, and moving images documenting the performance of Puerto Rican folk music; Tennesse old-time music; folk music from Veracruz, Mexico; dances of the Tewa Indians from the Santa Clara Pueblo; Irish folk dance and music; gospel music; and bluegrass music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Thomas Jefferson Building, Library of Congress, at concerts from April through September 1992, sponsored by the American Folklife Center. Some concerts were recorded for broadcast on WAMU-FM, hosted by Dick Spottswood. Manuscripts include some correspondence and program flyers autographed by the performers.
Manuscript materials, sound recordings, photographs, and moving images documenting the performance of Tibetan sacred music and dance; Tamburitza music from the Balkan Peninsula; Iroquois music; African American rhythm and blues quartet singing; gospel brass band music; bluegrass music; and Cuban mambo music recorded live outdoors on Neptune Plaza in front of the Thomas Jefferson Building, Library of Congress, at concerts from April through September 1994, sponsored by the American Folklife Center.
Collection of photographic documentation of wild horse herds in the Nevada Great Basin made by Paula Morin during her work for the Nevada Arts Council, 1999-2001. The photographs were exhibited by the Nevada Arts Council in an exhibiton titled, "Honest Horses: A Portrait of the Mustang in Nevada's Great Basin." The collection includes 21 prints described by the artist as giclee prints made from handpainted black-and-white photographs; one print log, and related publicity materials.
Collection of field recordings of interviews with Montanans in various occupations including ranching, sheep herding, blacksmithing, stone cutting, saddle making, and mining; various folk and traditional music occasions including fiddle and mandolin music in Forsyth; fiddle and accordion music performed in Broadus; the Montana Old-Time Fiddlers Association in Polson; Irish music, songs, and dance music on concertina and accordion in Butte; a Serbian wedding and reception in Butte; hymn singing of the Turner Colony of Hutterites; the annual Crow Fair in Crow Agency; storytelling on the Milk River Wagon Train, and other documentation of rodeos, trade crafts, vernacular architecture, quilting, and other reminiscences and stories about life in Montana in 1979. One videocassette comprises news coverage of the Montana Folklife Survey, featuring Barre Toelken, KECI-TV, Missoula, Montana, 1979-09-13.
An ethnographic field collection of sound recordings, moving images, photographs, and accompanying materials that document religious and secular music, dance, and ritual in the northeastern Brazilian states of Maranhão, Pará, Paraíba, Pernambuco, and also the state of São Paulo. Fieldwork was conducted in northeastern Brazil in 1937-1938, some audio recordings were accessioned in 1950. The collection includes correspondence between Harold Spivacke, then chief of the Music Division of the Library of Congress and Oneyda Alvarenga, Director of the Discoteca Pública Municipal de São Paulo (1941-1943), now Discoteca Oneyda Alvarenga (Centro Cultural São Paulo). Photographs document field research and include images of musical instruments and costumes in the museum in São Paulo. Silent black-and-white 16 mm film is comprised of 14 film rolls including footage of carnaval in Recife, Pernambuco; footage from Belém do Pará; most was filmed in Paraíba.
The California Folk Music Project of the California Work Projects Administration (WPA) was conceived and directed by Sidney Robertson Cowell and co-sponsored by the Music Department of the University of California, Berkeley, and the Music Division, Library of Congress from 1938 to 1940. Additional support was provided by the New Music Society of California and the Society of California Pioneers. The resulting collection of sound recordings, photographs, correspondence, field notes, and drawings documents the musical culture, including religious music and folk song, of many ethnic and English-language performers in northern California. The collection includes the documentation of the music of Anglo Americans, Armenians, Assyrians, Basques, Croatians, English, Finns, Hungarians, Icelanders, Italians, Norwegians, Russian Molokans, Scots, Portuguese, Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, Spaniards and Spanish Americans from 1938 to 1940. The sound recordings were deposited in the Archive of American Folk Song at the Library of Congress in 1940. The collection also includes a few instantaneous sound discs made by Sidney Robertson Cowell in Missouri and Iowa for the Farm Security Administration in 1936-1937, and includes folk music research, writing, photographs, and technical drawings and sketches of the musical instruments, generated by Cowell and by the WPA staff who worked for her, plus related documents to 1991.
Collection of professional papers, field recordings of interviews and songs, a film, and photographs documenting the career and folklife fieldwork of George Korson. George Korson conducted fieldwork in the anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania and also in Pennsylvania Dutch Country in eastern counties of Pennsylvania. The film dated October 12, 1964 is George Korson (with Charlie McCarthy) interviewed by Franklin D. Coslett. The collection also includes various papers and interviews created by Angus K. Gillespie, including his interviews with folklorist and labor historian Archie Green. Gillespie is the author of a biography of George Korson, titled Folklorist of the coal fields : George Korson's life and work (Pennsylvania State University Press, 1980).
Papers and audiovisual materials relating to the career and personal life of folk arts administrator, folklorist, filmmaker, musician, and teacher Bess Lomax Hawes, most from 1960-2001. Includes work produced by Hawes in her work as a professor at San Fernando Valley State College in Northridge, California, and as head of the National Endowment for the Arts Folk Arts Program in Washington, DC. The collection includes writings, correspondence, business records, musical transcriptions and photographs. Also includes artwork produced by her husband, Baldwin "Butch" Hawes.
 Collection of more than 500 audio recordings, plus digital audio files, video recordings, film, photographs, papers, and ephemera documenting the history of the Caffè Lena coffeehouse, a folk music club and theater in Saratoga Springs, New York, founded by Lena Spencer and Bill Spencer in 1960. The collection includes a large number of live concert performance recordings by folk musicians and singer-songwriters, as well as some theater, storytelling, and poetry performances. The collection also includes folk music radio programs produced from Caffè Lena concerts by Robert Durand and others. Some materials were gathered by Jocelyn Arem while conducting research on the history of Caffè Lena, and the collection includes drafts and page proofs of Arem's book, Caffè Lena: Inside America's Legendary Folk Music Coffeehouse  (2013).
Collection of field recordings, studio recordings, and dubs and production masters of performances by blues guitarist Mississippi John Hurt, from the time of Hurt's initial meeting with Tom Hoskins, at Hurt's home in Avalon, Mississippi in March 1963 through various sessions and events from 1963-1965. The collection resulted from Tom Hoskins' relationship with Mississippi John Hurt over the next few years and includes Hoskins' interviews and photographs of John Hurt and his home; includes original letters from John Hurt and Jessie Hurt, with Hoskins' collection of various published articles and ephemera about Mississippi John Hurt, dated 1963-1999. John Hurt and his family moved to Washington, D.C. and he became a popular performer in the blues revival, coffeehouse, and folk music circuits. The collection includes an interview and performances by John Hurt recorded in the Coolidge Auditorium at the Library of Congress, in Washington, D.C. over several days in July, 1963. John Hurt and his family returned to Mississippi in 1966 and Hurt died soon after, on November 2, 1966. A selection from the March 1963 field recordings was issued in 2011 as the album Discovery: The Rebirth of John Hurt, March 3, 1963. Spring Fed Records.
Woody Guthrie songs, performed by Guthrie with guitar and harmonica. Twenty-six new songs were written by Guthrie on a one-month contract for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) in May 1941, and were recorded during 1941 or later in Portland, Oregon. These are likely the originals or near copies of the 1941 studio recordings Guthrie made at the BPA Headquarters in Portland, Oregon. Some are first-generation discs, others are second-generation or other copies; songs include alternate takes and outtakes. Three of Guthrie's songs were included in the 1948 film "The Columbia."
Brazilian chapbooks, xilogravuras woodblock illustrations and woodblocks, sound recordings and additional research material on the subject of Brazilian literatura de cordel collected by Sol Biderman. The collection also includes a play, poems, and other writings by Biderman along with his collection of Chicano corridos and poems.
The Maggie Holtzberg collection documents, through interviews and photographs, the occupational folklife and craft of hot metal typesetters, compositors, and printers. Holtzberg interviewed skilled craftsmen and women who experienced the disruptive technology and transition in the printing industry from mechanical typesetting, "hot metal," to computer-aided photocomposition or "cold type." She interviewed retired printers residing at the Union Printers Home in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and craft printers at Heritage Printers in Charlotte, North Carolina, among others. Interviews were conducted between 1983-1988. The collection includes the production files for Holtzberg's book, The Lost World of the Craft Printer (University of Illinois Press, 1992); correspondence with folklorists Archie Green and Judith McCulloh, and notes from meetings with Holtzberg's dissertation advisors at the University of Pennsylvania -- Henry Glassie, Ray Birdwhistell, and with Ken Goldstein, whom she interviewed about his experience in the printing industry. The collection also includes two journals written while Maggie Holtzberg was a student from 1972-1973 at the Trailside Country School, based in Killington, Vermont. The Trailside Country School was a traveling high school run by Michael Cohen and Diana Cohen that taught cultural documentation. The notebooks include diary entries, song lyrics, music transcription, and ephemera from locations throughout the United States where the students traveled. Photographs include the 46 illustrations for Holtzberg's book, 31 slides, plus snapshots from Holtzberg's fieldwork with printers and a few from the Trailside Country School. One of the interviews with printers was conducted by folklorist Jan Rosenberg.
Collection of manuscripts and publications comprising the records of the Cooperative Recreation Service (Delaware, Ohio) and additions by subsequent owners, including World Around Songs, a division of Compassion Books, Inc. Includes correspondence with authors and collectors of songs and games; copyright and permission files; most of the original publications of the CRS; folders of individual folk dance and folk song titles pasted-up for publication; and master negatives of songs and games for publication. Genres include American and International folk songs, Contemporary songs, Humorous songs, Work songs, Carols, Rounds, Spirituals, Hymns, and Canons. Popular titles published by the Cooperative Recreation Service include: Handy play party book (1940, 1982); Work and sing: an international songbook (1944, 1948); Look away: 50 Negro folk songs (1960, 1963); Songs of all time (1946, 1957); African songs (1958); Songs of the wigwam (1955); Little book of carols (1960); One tune more: songs of America (1961); and Handy folklore (1955); among many others.
Collection of video recordings, photographs, promotional and publicity materials, clippings, posters, and ephemera from the career of David Bromberg, musician, singer-songwriter, and luthier, from around 1962 to 2013, including recordings of his performances at concerts and folk festivals around the United States as well as overseas and various interviews with Bromberg. Includes photographs of other folk music and popular music performers.
Collection of audio recordings of American English dialects from the University of South Alabama, Doy Leale McCall Rare Book & Manuscript Library's Dialect Tape Center collection created by Professor Joseph C. Mele, a former faculty member, between 1975-1980. The collection includes 346 audiocassettes of 30-minute dialect samples recorded by Mele and other recordists (agents) of individuals in 31 states, as well as 42 recordings of English spoken by non-Americans from 23 different countries. Samples generally consist of two parts: an impromptu monologue and a 44-sentence sequence highlighting each English phoneme.
Collection of concert and workshop recordings of events at the National Folk Festivals, Lowell Folk Festivals, and other festivals, tours, and concerts sponsored by the National Council for the Traditional Arts (NCTA), formerly the National Folk Festival Association founded in 1934. Features performances and traditions from throughout the United States and from around the world.
Collection of sound recordings of interviews, readings by authors, lectures and speeches, and radio broadcasts with songs and music, recorded and compiled by Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber for the Sing Out! radio program on WBAI-FM, New York City; and for other radio shows and documentation of other music and events from 1952-1978. Includes interviews with Vietnam War protesters, draft resisters, and topical songs written about the Vietnam War; many songs about other events of the 1960s and 1970s, including the African American civil rights movement; Native American survival movement; the women's rights and gay rights movements. The collection includes some tapes submitted by performers or listeners of Barbara Dane's shows, some with accompanying letters. Includes interview and songs performed by Catalan poet and composer, Raimon; Philippine songs; Cambodian songs; sound recordings of the Poor People's March on Washington, 1968; folk festivals and other recordings.
Field recordings of songs and tales from Virginia, West Virginia, and New York State (Appalachian and Adirondack Mountains) made by Gwilym Davies in 1997 and 1998. Performers recorded include Spencer Moore of Chilhowie, VA; Phyllis Marks of Glenville, West Virginia, in the company of Helena Triplett of Elkins, West Virginia; Rita Emerson of Glenville, West Virginia; Russell Lehew of Mannington, West Virginia; Dick Richards of Lake Luzerne, Saratoga, New York; Catherine Charron Labier of Whitehall, New York; Jim Cleveland and Colleen Cleveland of Brant Lake, New York.
Collection of over eight hundred sound tape reels, including blues and jazz music and interviews with musicians; several hundred photographs of prominent blues and jazz musicians, primarily from the 1960s and 1970s; manuscript materials about blues and jazz musicians, arranged by the name of performer; and articles, drafts, and notes written by Pete Welding, journalist, record producer, and historian of blues music.
This collection consists of photographs, recordings, and field notes documenting diverse culture, traditions, and communities in Nevada. Sponsored by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program, collection materials were collected by staff folklorists beginning in 1985.
Sound recordings and manuscripts that document the musical heritage and cultural traditions of the Hispano residents of the portion of the Northern Rio Grande region of northern New Mexico and southern Colorado, collected by Juan B. Rael in 1940.
Correspondence, blueprints and manufactures information for early French and foreign aircraft and dirigibles, reports of accidents involving flyers and balloonists, World War I aerial photographs and intelligence reports, a series of French cartoons, drawings, graphs, charts, diagrams of equipment, maps, newspapers, printed material, and photographs. The materials in the collection were evidently assembled by staff of the magazine L’Aerophile which was published by Georges Besançon in collaboration with Union Aérophile de France. Subjects include aeronautics chiefly in Europe and the U.S., aeronautics corporations, air shows, aviators, balloons, bombs and missiles, commercial airlines, dirigibles, gliders, hydroplanes, medical aviation, military aeronautics, model aircraft, parachutes, propellers, record flights, and research and testing of aircraft. Individuals represented include Henry Harley "Hap" Arnold, Georges Besançon, Amelia Earhart, Charles Lindbergh, and William "Billy" Mitchell.
Consists of pen and ink drawings, pencil sketches, facsimiles, and photographs of aerial views showing all or part of China during the period of World War II. The collection also consists of technical drawing equipment, notes, charts, atlases, some books, personal folders, letters, correspondence, and other miscellaneous items.
 The Hammond World Atlas Corporation archival collection consists of map sculptures, printing separations, and business records (index cards) that document the 100-year publishing history of the company. Hammond was known for its extensive line of world, historical, school, and thematic atlases, but the company also issued a wide variety of other cartographic items, including maps, globes, and transparencies during the last 100 years. It printed numerous other works, primarily for the educational market. In addition to its own imprints, Hammond's cartographic output was included in the encyclopedias, almanacs, dictionaries, religous texts, and textbooks of many other publishers.
 The collection consists of 72 maps, and the most unique among them is an annotated map of the Battle of Tan Canh that occurred during the U.S. drawdown from the war in 1972. The other items include a disbound atlas of South Vietnam; various maps of North and South Vietnam; and U.S. military maps of South Vietnam and Cambodia. The materials appear to have been used by Sheehan in preparation of his 1988 book, A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam.
 William Rea Furlong was a United States Navy Rear Admiral during World War II, who also served in the Navy during World War I. The collection consists of World War I-era maps and charts. One chart from 1918 depicts German and British minefields along the coast of England and a portion of continental Europe. Other items are nautical charts of Aegean Sea with annotations.
Bob Crozier served as a Technical Sergeant in the 654th Topographic Engineers from 1943 to 1946. Crozier was part of the American First Army under General Omar Bradley. He donated a collection of photos, photo maps and maps created during World War II to the Geography and Map Division. The collection consists of 36-page booklet that describes the process of aerial reconnaissance and mapping, 15 aerial photographs, and 20 maps. Perhaps the most unique items are a captured German map that depicts Caen and a rare commemorative map of the U.S. and Russian contact at the Elbe River in 1945.
 The Wallace Earl Dryer World War II map collection consists of Army Map Service maps of Italy and Northwest Europe, a Dutch map of the Western Front, and a German map of Holland. Dryer served in the American army and was a painter and photographer after the war.
Frank Farrell served in the Marine Corps as an interrogator and prosecutor for the International Military Tribunal for the Far East, Shanghai, China. His collection includes a map from World War II that depicts the military situation in China, maps of Guangxi Province, and various tourist maps. Some maps have annotations on the reverse in English and French and other maps are in Chinese.
The Francis R. Valeo Map Collection comprises twenty-six maps for the period 1954-1980, and no date, and cover mainly East Asia, specifically Japan, Hong Kong, and Macau
The Solomon Mullin World War II map collection contains 23 annotated flak maps of Western Europe that depict German anti-craft fire upon American bombers from July 1944 to April 1945. Additional war records include five of Solomon Mullin's flight plans, five documents related to his military service, and a receipt of donation.
H.H. Copeland and Son commissioned the materials that contain information about railroads in the United States from 1917 to 1958. The collection includes maps and data concerning railroad traffic density, tables on ton miles, freight density and traffic distribution, and other railway related tables and calculations. H. H. Copeland and Son were an investment house in existence from the late nineteenth century to around the mid 1950s. The materials were intended for their private use.
The collection consists of 32 pictorial, tourtist, and road maps published between 1942 and 1964. The materials depict the moon and various locations in the United States. Several of these maps were designed for classroom instruction. Publishers include Armour and Company, General Drafting Company, Esso Standard Oil Company, among others. Included is an envelope from the Armour and Company addressed to Mrs. Dorothy H. Grim, N. Hopewell-Winterstown Elementary School, Red Lion, Pa. Mrs. Grim taught the fifth grade and used the materials in her classroom. Luther E. Grim was her husband.
This sub-collection of the Heezen-Tharp maps and papers collection contains some 4162 cartographic items and supporting materials that are related to Bruce Heezen and Marie Tharp's mapping of the Pacific Ocean floor. The item types include manuscript and published maps, soundings, reports, and other scientific data. The materials are stored offsite at Ft. Meade and must be requested advance of visiting the Geography and Map Reading Room.
This sub-collection of the Heezen-Tharp maps and papers collection contains some 370 cartographic items and supporting materials that are related to Bruce Heezen and Marie Tharp's mapping of the Arctic Ocean floor. The item types include manuscript and published maps, soundings, reports, and other scientific data. The materials are stored offsite at Ft. Meade and must be requested advance of visiting the Geography and Map Reading Room.
 The collection consists of 32 maps and charts that depict Apollo missions and the Northern Hemisphere.
The collection consists of 7 maps from the nineteenth century. Five maps depict locations in Europe and two maps depict loctions in the United States. Eleven other items are cataloged separately. Consult the finding aid for more information.
The collection consists of 26 aeronautical charts that date to World War II. Among them are 16 charts that depict locations in Europe and 8 that depict locations in the United States. The materials were compiled by Marshall Ryder, who served in the U.S. Troop Carrier Command during World War II. He was aboard a C-47 that dropped paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division on D-Day, June 6, 1944. Ryder annotated some of the charts.
The collection consists of four air route atlases and one airport map of locations in the United States.
The collection consists of seventy-five maps depicting locations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe, and Japan.
This collection contains photocopies of original press releases released by the American television networks ABC and CBS between June 11, 1962 and July 4, 1970. The original press releases were collected by David A. Dunsford. The press releases pertain to news programs, television specials, documentaries, movies of the week, religious programs, variety shows, talk shows, soap operas, news programming, dramas, and situation comedies broadcast by ABC and CBS.
The Jerry Lewis Papers consist of scripts and sketch material; memos and other correspondence; itineraries; business and legal papers; photographic prints, proof sheets, and negatives; press clippings and publicity; and other materials related to the film and television career of comedian, actor, and filmmaker Jerry Lewis, primarily from the period following the breakup of the act he formed with singer and comedian Dean Martin. Also included are papers related to Lewis's work with the Muscular Dystrophy Association's annual telethon, and his teaching work at the University of Southern California.
United States Army officer. Correspondence, memoranda, diaries, journals, writings, speeches and lectures, military papers, scrapbooks, military publications, maps, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to Patton's military career as a student at the U.S. Military Academy (1904-1909), member of John J. Pershing's Punitive Expedition into Mexico (1916), aide-de-camp to Pershing and later tank commander in Europe during World War I, and commander of forces in Europe and North Africa during World War II.
Author and poet, of Indianapolis, Indiana; sometimes known as the "Hoosier Poet." Correspondence and manuscript and typescript poems. Includes a drawing by Riley of his friend, Bill Nye.
Lawyer, farmer, and U.S. representative and senator from and governor of Ohio. Correspondence, speeches, memoranda, financial records, printed material, maps, and other papers largely relating to Allen's service as United States senator (1837-1848) and governor (1873-1875) of Ohio.
African-American historian, educator, editor, and civil rights and social activist. Chiefly academic files documenting Greene's career as a professor of history and pioneer in the field of African-American studies at Lincoln University, Jefferson City, Missouri.
Diplomat. Correspondence, family papers, diaries (1928-1930), speeches, notes and book drafts, other writings, memoranda, subject files, legal and financial papers, biographical material, academic notebooks, scrapbooks, and other papers documenting Patterson's career as a diplomat and foreign service officer serving at American embassies in China, Colombia, Egypt, Germany, Norway, Peru, Poland, and Turkey, and as ambassador to Uruguay.
Actor, art collector, and supporter of the arts. Correspondence, speeches and writings, lectures, business records, family papers, scripts, programs, playbills, publicity material, photographs, and other papers documenting Price's career as an actor in the theater, motion pictures, and television, as an art collector, critic, and consultant, and as a gourmet cook.
Army officer, author, and public official. Correspondence, memoranda, diaries, drafts of speeches and writings, subject files, newspaper clippings, and other papers pertaining chiefly to Roosevelt's service as United States assistant secretary of the navy (1921-1924) under Warren G. Harding and Secretary of the Navy Edwin Denby, as governor of Puerto Rico (1929-1932), and as governor general of the Philippines (1932-1933).
Judge and lawyer. Correspondence, memoranda, drafts of articles and books, speeches, notes, research materials calendars, case files, bench books, financial and legal material, family papers, printed material, diaries, and other papers pertaining chiefly to Sirica's career as judge of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, especially to cases relating to the Watergate Affair.
Associate justice of the United States Supreme Court and United States senator. Diaries, correspondence, legal case files, speeches and writings, reports, photographs, maps, printed matter, and newspaper clippings pertaining primarily to Burton's activities as an associate justice of the Supreme Court and Senator.
Lawyer, solicitor general, attorney general, and associate justice of the United States Supreme Court. Correspondence, memoranda, family papers, legal file, subject file, speeches, writings, financial papers, photographs, and other material relating primarily to Jackson's legal career as a private attorney, government attorney, and Supreme Court justice.
Lawyer, civil rights activist, and civil libertarian of Washington, D.C. Chiefly legal files together with correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, oral history interviews, speeches, writings, subject files, appointment books, and other papers relating to Rauh's career as a public interest lawyer handling cases pertaining to civil rights, civil liberties, and labor disputes. Includes files relating to his activities with Americans for Democratic Action and to his participation in Hubert H. Humphrey's presidential campaign in 1960.
Anticommunist activist and counterspy. Correspondence, writings, speeches, television scripts, subject files, and other papers relating primarily to Philbrick's role as a leading anticommunist spokesman, his activities as an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation while he was a member of the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA), and the television program based on his autobiography, I Led 3 Lives: Citizen, “Communist,” Counterspy.
Public relations counsel. Correspondence, memoranda, research notes, speeches, articles, book drafts, surveys, reports, publicity material, scrapbooks, photographs, printed matter, and other material documenting Bernays's career as a pioneer in the field of public relations and the development of that profession and its influence on American society.
Judge and lawyer. Correspondence, memoranda, manuscripts of writings, speeches, agenda and minutes of meetings, opinions, orders, dockets, notes, sentencing information, case files, and other legal papers and material pertaining primarily to Gesell's career as judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and documenting his cases in the areas of civil rights, constitutional law, antitrust matters, patent cases, and government regulations.
Botanist, horticulturist, and naturalist. Correspondence, speeches and writings, notes, sketches, nursery plans and notes, business records, scrapbooks, family papers and genealogies, and printed material concerning Burbank's career as a botanist and his family and personal life.
Orientalist, author, educator, and historian. Correspondence, journals, writings, reviews, speeches, research notes, interviews, reports, transcripts of hearings, and other papers pertaining to Lattimore's studies in Chinese and Mongolian history and linguistics, his appointment as a political advisor to Chiang Kai-shek, and his service as director of Pacific Operations in the United States Office of War Information Overseas Operations Branch, and as a member of the United States Reparations Mission to Japan. Other topics include accusations by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and subsequent Senate Foreign Relations Committee investigations (1951), and the establishment of the Lattimore Institute for Mongolian Studies.
Baseball player, civil rights leader, and corporate executive. Correspondence, fan mail, financial and legal records, drafts of speeches and writings, printed matter, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous items relating to Robinson as the first African American to play major league baseball in the twentieth century and to various business and civic activities following his baseball career, including his service as a corporate executive and his participation in the civil rights movement, religious and humanitarian organizations, broadcast and media affairs, and politics.
New Hampshire politician, clerk of the United States House of Representatives, and Commissioner of Public Buildings in Washington, D.C. Journals, personal correspondence, writings, and miscellaneous papers chiefly relating to family matters and including commentary on political events and social life in Washington in the nineteenth century. Other prominent family members represented in the papers include Francis O. French, banker, and Amos Tuck, congressman.
Editor, publisher, and philanthropist. Correspondence and memoranda, speeches and writings, financial and property records, reports, printed matter, newspaper clippings, and biographical data relating primarily to Luce's publishing career and his involvement in political, religious, civic, and private organizations.
Statesman, publisher, scientist, and diplomat. Correspondence, journals, records, articles, and other material relating to Franklin's life and career. Includes manuscripts (1728) of his Articles of Belief and Acts of Religion; negotiations in London (1775); letterbooks (1779-1782) of the United States legation in Paris; records (1780-1783) of the United States peace commissioners, including journals kept by Franklin and Richard Oswald; and papers (1781-1818) of Franklin's grandson, William Temple Franklin (1760-1823).
Statesman, diplomat, historian, journalist, and poet. Correspondence and letterbooks, speeches, diaries, notebooks, scrapbooks, and memoranda, mainly for the years 1897-1905 when Hay served as United States ambassador to Great Britain and United States secretary of state. Earlier papers deal with his legal, literary, and journalistic activities and with his service as assistant secretary to Abraham Lincoln. Includes correspondence of his wife, Clara Louise Stone Hay (1849-1914), for the years 1882-1914.
United States Army air corps officer, aviation pioneer, aircraft industry executive, and newspaper columnist. Part I consists of correspondence, memoranda, diaries, reports, meetings minutes, printed material, and other papers documenting Eaker's military career in the aeronautical section of the United States Army, particularly his experiences in World War II. Part II consists of correspondence, memoranda, diaries speeches, writings, and scheduling and subject files pertaining to Eaker's activities after leaving the military.
Correspondence, proclamations, messages of the president, court cases, minute books, docket books, customs records, financial records, letterbooks, orders, reports, and other records of the Confederate Department of Justice, Department of State, Department of the Treasury, Post Office Department, Navy Department, and War Department. Includes Confederate constitutional documents and the James Wolcott Wadsworth collection of diplomatic correspondence and letters of Raphael Semmes.
Statesmen and physicians. Correspondence, diaries, diplomas, legal and financial records, notebooks, account books, speeches, genealogical material, printed matter, and newspaper clippings documenting the Bartlett family's professional and political activity in New England in the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries. Topics include New England's sentiment towards the War of 1812 as well as American political life before and during the Civil War and post Civil War business developments.
Journalist. Correspondence, wire service reports, reference files, speeches and writings, and personal files pertaining to Henry Shapiro's career and writings as chief correspondent in the Moscow bureau of United Press International from the 1930s to the 1970s.
Lawyer and judge. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, opinions, orders, briefs, writs, petitions, notes, agenda and minutes of meetings, and genealogical and printed material chiefly from Haynsworth's career as a federal judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit.
Economist, author, and government official. Research files containing journal excerpts, correspondence, memoranda, cables, reports, minutes, interview transcripts, writings, speeches, newspaper clippings, and printed matter compiled by Loeb concerning Glenn Theodore Seaborg's chairmanship of the Atomic Energy Commission from 1961 to 1971. Loeb assisted Seaborg in writing several books on his chairmanship which feature Seaborg's efforts to promote arms control and peaceful uses of nuclear power.
Founder of psychoanalysis. Correspondence, holograph and typewritten drafts of writings by Freud and others, family papers, patient case files, legal documents, estate records, receipts, military and school records, certificates, notebooks, a pocket watch, a Greek statue, an oil portrait painting, genealogical data, interviews, research files, exhibit material, bibliographies, lists, photographs and drawings, newspaper and magazine clippings, and other printed matter. The collection documents many facets of Freud's life and writings; his associations with family, friends, mentors, colleagues, students, and patients; and the evolution of psychoanalytic theory and technique.
Bookman, collector, and bibliophile. Letters, decrees, order books, reports, instructions, dispatches, printed material, and miscellaneous legal documents concerning the history of colonial Spanish America, including the activities of the Mexican Inquisition.
Labor union official and civil rights leader. Correspondence, documents relating to presidential executive orders, memoranda, notes, printed matter, reports, scrapbooks, speeches, and other material reflecting Randolph's role in the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the Fair Employment Practices Committee, marches on Washington for employment and equal rights for African Americans, and the civil rights movement.
Lecturer, reformer, actress, and author. Correspondence, speeches, writings, plays, legal files, financial papers, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and printed material relating to Dickinson's activities on behalf of abolition and women's rights and suffrage and to her career in the theater.
Senator, secretary of state, and ambassador. Correspondence, letterbooks, scrapbooks, and miscellany relating to Bayard's career after the Civil War as a politician and legislator and as a cabinet official and diplomat during the presidential administrations of Grover Cleveland.
Lawyer and judge. Correspondence, legal case files, speeches, articles, topical files, family papers, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous papers relating mainly to Stout's career as a trial judge.
Literary and talent agent. Contracts, correspondence, financial records, notes, photographs, printed matter, and scripts relating to the Lucy Kroll Agency which managed the careers of numerous clients in the literary and entertainment fields. 
Army officer, engineer, architect, and scientist. Correspondence, diaries and journals, notebooks, family papers, military papers, drawings and plans, scrapbooks, and other papers relating primarily to Meigs's work in the United States Army Corps of Engineers, his service as quartermaster general during the Civil War, and family matters.
Army officer. Correspondence, letterbooks, telegrams, writings, reports, orders, financial records, scrapbooks, and other papers relating primarily to the Civil War, Reconstruction, Mexican border disputes, Indian wars, and Sheridan's service as commanding general of the army.
Confederate army officer, topographical and mining engineer, and historian. Correspondence, diaries, notebooks, subject files, writings, financial papers, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous printed material relating principally to Hotchkiss's service with the Confederate army as a topographical engineer in Virginia and his involvement with various land and mining schemes in West Virginia, especially the Gauley Coal Company, Guyandot Coal Land Association, and North Flat-Top Land Association. Includes genealogical papers relating to the Hotchkiss and Beecher families, copies of William Barton Rogers's notebooks for his geological survey of Virginia, and papers of Hotchkiss's wife, Sara Anne Comfort Hotchkiss.
Journalist and author. Writings, notes, interviews, correspondence, and research material including newspaper clippings, printed matter, reports, photographs, legal documents, financial records, and congressional hearing records and other government documents. Pertains chiefly to Lardner's career as a national news reporter for the Washington Post.
 Lawyer, congressman, and speaker of the United States House of Representatives. Correspondence, speeches, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and memorabilia consisting chiefly of speeches made during Longworth’s servce in the House of Representatives. Includes a series of letters to Theodore Roosevelt concerning the nomination of an African American to be surveyor of customs for the Port of Cincinnati; a group of letters by Longworth's grandfather, Nicholas Longworth (1782-1863); and an album of letters of speakers of the United States House of Representatives.
 American Red Cross official. Correspondence, diaries, genealogical material, letterbooks, newspaper clippings, printed items, and other material relating to Boardman’s career in the American Red Cross and as a commissioner of the District of Columbia.
 Lawyer, state legislator, and United States representative. Letters from Coit to his wife Nancy, to his son Robert, and to Charles Bulkeley, all of New London, Connecticut. Most were written in Philadelphia while Coit served as a representative in the United States Congress from 1793 to 1798. Many of the letters are accompanied by typed transcripts.
 Transcripts of material found in the Cuban national archives pertaining to Spanish colonial rule in Louisiana and the Floridas. Includes correspondence of the Spanish governor of Louisiana, Bernardo de Gálvez, correspondence of British traders operating under Spanish protection, in particular William Panton, material concerning commerce and political relations with the local Indian tribes, Spain’s part in the American revolution and relations with the newly independent states, and miscellaneous documents, government orders, and land grants.
Research superintendent. Notes, correspondence, drawings, lists, payroll records, newspaper clippings, personal papers, printed matter, and photographs largely documenting Benney’s employment by Thomas A. Edison, centering on the work carried out in Fort Myers, Florida, to find a substitute for natural rubber.
Physician and army officer. Diary, correspondence, memoranda, registers and returns of troops and artillery, sketches, photographs, and other items relating chiefly to events while Crawford was an assistant surgeon at Fort Sumter during the early months of 1861.
Correspondence between members of the Denby family. Includes letters of Charles Denby (1830-1904), a lawyer and diplomat; Charles Denby (1861-1938), a diplomat; and Edwin Denby, a member of the United States Congress and secretary of the navy. Relates to the Civil War, diplomatic life in China, and the Spanish-American War.
Nursing service. Correspondence, minutes, membership rosters, and printed matter documenting the fund-raising activities of the Washington Committee of the Frontier Nursing Service, an organization based in Wendover, Kentucky, providing rural health care.
Naval officers and authors. Papers of David Porter (1780-1843) and his son, David Dixon Porter (1813-1891) relating to their naval careers and families.
American poet, drama critic, editor, and banker. Correspondence, poems, and miscellaneous items. Correspondents include Edward Howard House.
Educator, lawyer, and governor of Ohio. Autograph letters and clipped signatures from an album started for Bebb by his father, Edward Bebb, and Samuel Roberts, Welsh political reformer and founder of a settlement in Tennessee. Includes autographs of British politicians, military leaders, authors, and missionaries. Letters collected by William Bebb himself include those from prominent Americans including John Quincy Adams, John C. Calhoun, William Henry Harrison, and Thomas Jefferson. Bebb's own correspondence relates to Ohio and Whig politics.
Naval officer. Correspondence, family papers, and subject files relating primarily to his convoy duty and command of United States Naval Aviation Forces in Europe during World War I, and his command of a gunboat flotilla on the Yangtze River in China during 1929-1931.
 Naval officer; served with the British navy from 1776 to 1777 when he joined the Continental Navy, serving as first lieutenant to John Paul Jones on the Bonhomme Richard. Correspondence, commissions, mathematics notebook, and journal/logbook (1787-1789) kept on a voyage aboard a merchant ship to Canton, China, and to New Guinea. Includes letterbook (1801-1802) of Dale's outgoing correspondence while in command of the U.S. frigate President in the Mediterranean during the Tripolitan War.
Correspondence, speeches and writings, household financial accounts, legal papers, genealogical material, printed matter, photographs, lithographs, and engravings pertaining to the families of Samuel Osgood (1748-1813) and his daughter, Susan Osgood Field, of Massachusetts and New York. 
Correspondence, school records, literary and commencement programs, poetry, and Gilpin family genealogical material. Much of the correspondence is between Gilchrist, who served with the 3rd Indiana Cavalry in Maryland, Pennsylvania, and Virginia during the Civil War, and his wife, Mollie Gilpin Gilchrist; other letters are between Mollie and her brothers, Samuel J. V. B. Gilpin, of the 1st Indiana Cavalry, and E. N. Gilpin, of the 3rd Iowa Cavalry. Includes material relating to Hanover College, Hanover, Indiana.
Delegate to the United States Continental Congress from and United States representative of Massachusetts, jurist, and physician. Correspondence, account books, and bills and receipts relating primarily to Holten's public service career in Massachusetts, the federal government, and his medical practice.
United States army officer. Correspondence, diaries, writings, printed memorial, biographical material, and photographs documenting Hughes's military career, including his account of the Battle of Little Bighorn written the following day as aide-de-camp to Gen. Alfred Howe Terry and material relating to his service during the Philippine insurrections (1898-1901).
Union army soldier. Three volume diary kept by Oviatt during his Civil War service with the Sixth Ohio Cavalry Regiment. Includes typewritten transcripts of two volumes prepared in 1995.
 Journalist. Scrapbooks and printed matter related to aviation, a field Franz covered for United Press International.
Members of the Simons (Simmons) family, an African-American family centered in South Carolina and Washington, D.C., especially William H. Simons (1881-1938), Baptist missionary and Young Men's Christian Association official, and members of the allied Garrett and Nicholson families. Correspondence, diaries and diary notes, and miscellaneous material relating chiefly to William H. Simons and his career with the YMCA in Burma, East Africa, and India and as a Baptist missionary in Nigeria.
Statistician and author. Drafts and printed copies of Gallup's speeches, drafts of books, and Gallup Poll press releases.
Vice president of the United States, congressman, and newspaper editor. Correspondence and speeches documenting Colfax's activities as a newspaper editor, his involvement in the Whig and Republican parties, and his tenure as United States representative from Indiana and vice president under Ulysses S. Grant.
Naval officer, aide to President Franklin D. Roosevelt, and insurance executive. Correspondence, speeches, writings, subject files, and photographs relating primarily to McCrea's career as a naval officer.
Horticulturalist, conservationist, educator, and clubwoman. Correspondence, printed matter, speeches and writings, clippings, photographs, maps, and other papers relating primarily to Dock's efforts in forestry, conservation, gardening, park development, and nature study in Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the United States as well as in Germany and England.
Poet and lecturer. Correspondence, poetry, articles and speeches, biographical material, scrapbooks, photographs, memorabilia, printed matter and other papers pertaining mainly to the poet Edwin Markham.
Actor, director, theatrical producer, and crossword puzzle maker. Correspondence, contracts, scripts, playbills and programs, financial records, speeches, writings, drafts of crossword puzzles, and printed matter documenting Moss's career primarily as a stage actor, producer, and director.
Interviews pertaining to California state politics and government, the suffragists, and to the life and career of John S. Service, an American diplomat in China, and his wife, Caroline Service.
United States Navy officer. Correspondence, notebooks, photographs, and printed matter chiefly documenting Giles's incarceration as a Japanese prisoner of war from 1941 to 1945.
Correspondence and newspaper clippings relating primarily to sisters Edith Hulsizer Copher and Sophy Hulsizer Powell and their letters to family members during World War I.
Assistant to the United States Special Panama Canal Commission. Journal, writings, notes, poems, printed matter, scrapbooks, photographs, and drawings relating chiefly to the Commission's visit to Panama in 1921. The journal also documents Maass's tour of Panama, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, and Cuba.
Author and editor. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, notes, typescripts, press releases, printed matter, and other papers pertaining primarily to Baldwin's naval career and his early years as a general assignment newspaper reporter.
Housewife and member of the Society of Friends (Quaker). Correspondence and printed matter pertaining to religious activities, education, domestic matters, and the impact of the Civil War on Evans's family and friends.
Radio and television producer. Correspondence, essays, scripts, contracts, news clippings, and guest lists pertaining to the "Information Please" program produced by Golenpaul for radio and television and to his subsequent publication, Information Please Almanac.
Diplomat and United States representative from Maryland. Correspondence, diaries, and official documents pertaining to Murray’s diplomatic activities as minister to the Netherlands (1797-1801) and as minister plenipoteniary to France (1799-1800). 
Psychoanalyst, educator, and author. Correspondence, writings, lectures, patient files, and other papers pertaining primarily to Niederland's career in the field of psychoanalysis.
Clergyman and missionary. Correspondence, diaries, sermon notes, speeches and articles, reports, memoranda, family and personal correspondence, obituaries, Bibles, printed matter, memorabilia, scrapbooks, and photographs documenting Brent's career as a clergyman and missionary.
Naval officer. Correspondence, letterbook, order book, printed matter, scrapbooks, and unpublished biography detailing Schoonmaker’s naval career. Of particular interest are Schoonmaker’s letters regarding China and the Far East, accounts of the battle of Mobile Bay, and details of his death in Samoa.
United States and Confederate Army officer, lawyer, and state legislator of Virginia. Correspondence, diaries, military papers, speeches and articles, clippings, a scrapbook, printed matter, and maps dated largely after the Civil War.
Association dedicated to preserving Douglass's home and to disseminating knowledge of African-American history. Correspondence, minutes of meetings, reports, and other records relating to the preservation of the Frederick Douglass Memorial Home, Cedar Hill, and to African-American history. Also includes official files and personal papers of past president Mary E. C. Gregory.
United States Air Force brigadier general, author, and pioneer of modern aerial photographic reconnaissance. Correspondence, memoranda, writings, transcripts, research files, reports, patents, grants, diagrams, newspaper clippings, printed material, and photographs pertaining primarily to Goddard's career in the United States Army Air Corps and United States Air Force.
Psychoanalyst. Correspondence, writings, artwork, and other papers chiefly relating to Jacobson's psychiatric practice, psychoanalysis, the study and treatment of depression, and object relations theory.
Physicist and author. Correspondence, journals, reports, writings, printed matter, photographs, and other items relating to science policy issues concerning nuclear energy and computer technology as well as Ridenour's contribution to the development and application of radar technology during World War II.
Correspondence, diaries, journals, travel diaries, manuscripts of sermons, poems, essays, and other writings, business and financial records, printed works, biographical and genealogical materials, drawings and reproductions of paintings and photographs, and other papers collected by Stephenson relating to the Hand, Fiske, and Aldrich families.
Actor, author, producer, and director. Correspondence and production material relating to Kanin's stage and film projects.
Author, educator, and theater administrator. Correspondence, drafts and typescripts of writings, financial records, notes, photographs, and research material pertaining to Teichmann's career as a playwright, biographer, educator, and theater administrator.
Landowner and businessman. Correspondence, financial and legal records, plat surveys, and newspaper clippings pertaining to Carroll's business interests and real estate holdings in Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, Md.
Hessian army officer and surveyor. Correspondence, a journal, military records, travel notes, and writings chiefly relating to Krafft's career as a mercenary soldier, including his service for the British during the American Revolution.
Author. Correspondence, manuscripts, a speech, a bibliography, news clippings, press releases, and a program.
United States naval officer. Correspondence, duty orders, logbooks, biographical material, speeches, and other papers relating to Robbins's naval career and emphasizing his specialty in naval aviation.
Politician, political activist, and wife of Gifford Pinchot of Pennsylvania. Correspondence, political campaign papers and speeches, gardening file, and financial records relating to Pinchot's political activities and the Pinchot family.
Union soldier and businessman. Correspondence, financial records, medals, printed matter, and writings pertaining to Sisson’s Civil War service, political activities, and business enterprises in Maryville, Missouri.
Family of Nicholas King, English-born engineer and surveyor of the city of Washington, D.C. Journals, correspondence, notes, genealogies, visas, photographs, and drawings concerning King and members of his family.
Lawyer and associate justice of the Supreme Court. Letters from Miller to his brother-in-law, William Pitt Ballinger, relating to a broad range of political and judicial issues and a microfilm edition of Ballinger's diaries.
Actor, cinematic designer, and spiritualist. Typewritten monographs and notes, together with prints and photographs reflecting Rambova's research in Egyptology and cosmology under the auspices of the Bollingen Foundation.
Lawyer, businessman, diplomat, and consultant to United States presidents. Diaries, correspondence, speeches and writings, interviews, an oral history, organizational records, reports, photographs, printed matter, clippings, and travel files documenting Linowitz's career as an attorney, executive for Xerox Corporation, ambassador to the Organization of American States, co-negotiator of the Panama Canal treaties, and presidential representative to Middle East peace negotiations.
Society celebrating poet Aleksandr Sergeevich Puskin. Correspondence, minutes, programs, literary contest essays, clippings, an index to Pushkin's Boris Godunov, photographs, and other records relating chiefly to Pushkin and the formation and history of the society.
Journalist, editor, and social reformer. Family and general correspondence, writings, subject files, clippings, and printed matter relating to Gleason's editorial work with Cosmopolitan, The Survey, and Collier's Weekly; his experiences as a journalist and medic in World War I; his activities on behalf of the British labor movement, Bureau of Industrial Research, United Mine Workers, and socialism; and his interest in topics such as immigration, Jews in the United States, American isolationism, the Irish question, and religious groups and sects in Southern California.
Editor and publisher. Correspondence, drafts of articles and letters, financial papers, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other material relating to Marble’s career as editor and owner of the New York World, and as a senior member of the national Democratic Party.
Playwright. Correspondence and scripts, including drafts and galleys deposited in the Library of Congress Copyright Office.
Marine Corps officer. Correspondence, operation plans and reports, memoranda, notes, maps, photographs, and other papers relating to Riley’s World War II service on the staff of Admiral William Frederick Halsey, commander of South Pacific Area and commander in chief of the United States Navy 3rd Fleet; invasions of the Philippines and Ulithi (Micronesia); and United States Marine Corps and United States Navy demobilization efforts after the war.
Educator, clergyman, and public official. Correspondence, genealogical and biographical papers, miscellaneous documents, and a manuscript of a novel related to various members of the Cardozo family, a prominent African-American family of South Carolina and Washington, D.C.
Psychoanalyst. Correspondence, lectures, subject files, and writings relating to Jekel’s work in the field of psychoanalysis and his writings on dreams, sleep, and wakefulness. Also includes correspondence and writings of Herbert Silberer.
Volumes of letters from various persons at the offices of the English ministry at Whitehall Palace addressed chiefly to Sir William Scott, 5th Laird of Harden (died 1701) relating to such matters as royal travel and itinerary, events in Parliament, military operations, diplomatic meetings, religious movements, shipping and commercial agreements, and London social life.
Professional organization for psychologists founded in 1892 to advance psychology as a science, as a profession, and as a means of promoting human welfare. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, drafts of books, articles, and lectures, congressional testimony, reports, agendas, ballots, financial data, printed matter, and other records chiefly documenting the organization and management of the association's boards, committees, and publications. Includes the personal records of some of its executives.
Biographer and publisher. Correspondence, biographical files, business records of the National Biographical Society, illustrated materials, photographs, and other papers pertaining primarily to Elder's creation and publication of biographical directories for the society.
Theologian, philosopher, and author. Correspondence, speeches, sermons, lectures, articles, book reviews, typescripts of books and articles, family papers, subject files, biographical material, bibliographies, photographs, and memorabilia reflecting Niebuhr's influence on twentieth-century theology, politics, and society and his efforts to apply religious and ethical standards to modern social and political problems including labor and race relations.
Educator, public official, and diplomat. Correspondence, articles, speeches, lectures, notes, and scrapbooks of clippings concerned mainly with the economic aspects of agriculture and rural life. The greatest concentration, 1925-1929, relates to Jardine's term as secretary of agriculture. Other papers cover the four years during which he was minister to Egypt. Additional files concern his tenure as president of the University of Wichita, 1934-1949.
Assistant secretary of the United States Treasury. Family and general correspondence, financial papers, memoranda, notes, reports, codebooks, invitations, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material relating chiefly to Curtis's service as assistant secretary of the treasury.
Physician. Correspondence, writings, a reminiscence, and clippings chiefly concerning a plagiarism controversy involving Fliess, Sigmund Freud, Hermann Swoboda, and Otto Weininger. Also featured are letters from Josef Breuer to Fliess, a letter from Oscar Rie, and an undated reminiscence written by Fliess’s son, Conrad Fliess.
Diplomat, lawyer, and author. Correspondence, diaries, drafts of articles, books, and speeches, printed matter, and scrapbooks relating to Davies's career as an ambassador to Belgium and Russia, presidential advisor, and author.
U.S. secretary of war, author, lawyer, and municipal official of Cleveland, Ohio. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, speeches and articles, newspaper articles, and printed material relating primarily to Baker's post-World War I activities as the head of several business firms and of organizations devoted to education, law and jurisprudence, and philanthropy, relief, and other types of human services.
Business executive, philanthropist, and art collector. Chiefly correspondence documenting Hammer's career as a citizen diplomat (particularly to the Soviet Union), humanitarian, and art collector gathered for an exhibition honoring him at the Library of Congress in 1989, including also a facsimile edition of the Codex Hammer (a notebook of Leonardo da Vinci) and a photograph album.
Supreme Court justice. Chiefly holograph manuscripts, typescripts, and printed copies of a series of articles concerning Johnson written by Abraham J. Levin and published in the Michigan Law Review.
Soldier and statesman. Correspondence, legal documents, clippings, broadsides, orderly book, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to Lafayette's military service in Canada and Virginia, his tour of the United States from 1824 to 1825, his land in Florida, and his views of such topics as the slave trade and the French government, including also material pertaining to the centennial observance of his death and Lafayette's genealogy.
African-American army officer, educator, and civic activist. Book drafts, correspondence, military records, speeches, notes, press clippings, printed matter, and other papers relating to Earley’s experience as the first African-American commissioned officer in the Women’s Army Corps during World War II and her community activities later in life.
Air force officer and public official. Correspondence, memoranda, speeches and statements, reports, drawings, press releases, and other material pertaining primarily to Quesada's career as a United States Air Force officer and as director of the Federal Aviation Administration.
Continental congressman and governor of Massachusetts. Reproductions of correspondence, speeches, petitions, committee records, and other material relating primarily to Adams’s political life in Massachusetts.
Regional association of Presbyterian churches in Washington, D.C., and vicinity in Virginia and Maryland. Proceedings of the Presbytery of Washington City and its predecessors, the Presbytery of the District of Columbia and the Presbytery of the Potomac, concerning the administration and establishment of churches in the Washington, D.C., region. Includes an historical volume summarizing proceedings and the history of the presbyteries.
Lawyer, congressman, senator, and postmaster general. General correspondence, letterbooks, account books, and scrapbooks concerning Creswell’s law practice and political career in Maryland, his duties as adjutant general of Maryland, the military draft during the Civil War, the Maryland Constitutional Convention of 1867, and American claims regarding the Alabama. 
 Cabinet officer and governor of Utah. Correspondence, speeches, radio addresses, statements, memoranda, photographs, and other material dealing chiefly with Dern’s daily activities as secretary of war.
Architect and engineer. Correspondence, bills, receipts, plans, drawings, sketches, reports, notebooks, and printed matter relating mainly to Mills's designs for public buildings in Washington, D.C., and to his duties as architect of the Capitol.
Publisher and newspaperman. Correspondence between Moore and William Randolph Hearst concerning newspaper operations and policy, local and national politics, and Hearst’s magazine and motion picture interests. Also includes printed matter and correspondence with Arthur Brisbane, Robert W. Chambers, Millicent Wilson Hearst, and Ray Long.
Patent drafter. Typescript with holograph notes and corrections of Deisch's monograph, The Navigation of Interplanetary Space: A Study of the Question (Problem) of Flights to Other Worlds, the first serious scientific treatise in English on space travel; together with correspondence, articles, biographical material, and other papers relating to Deisch's patents and awards.
U.S. president. Correspondence, financial papers, scrapbooks, clippings, and other papers chiefly relating to Arthur's presidency, his service as collector or customs for the Port of New York, and the New York Republican State Committee.
United States president, secretary of state, secretary of war, and diplomat; delegate to the Continental Congress from and governor of Virginia. Correspondence relating primarily to negotiations for the Louisiana Purchase, the Monroe-Pinkney treaty with Great Britain, the War of 1812, the purchase of Florida, South American independence, and Virginia politics and a diary, an account book of memoranda and official and personal accounts, and other papers.
Naval officer. Correspondence, diaries, memoranda, reports, speeches and writings, subject files, dispatches, contracts, blueprints, charts, maps, tables, scrapbooks, clippings, photographs, and other papers documenting Greenslade's career in the United States Navy from the Spanish-American War through both world wars.
 Journals, correspondence, poetry, speeches and writings, newspaper clippings, genealogical records of the Adee and Graham families, and miscellaneous family material, including papers of Alvey A. Adee, chief of the Diplomatic Bureau at the United States Department of State and assistant secretary of state; Augustus Alvey Adee, United States Navy surgeon; and David Graham Adee, author and lawyer.
Naval officer. Correspondence, reports, speeches, biographical material, scrapbooks, and clippings relating chiefly to Blandy's World War II service as head of the United States Navy Department Bureau of Ordnance and afterward as director of Operation Crossroads, the atomic tests at Bikini Atoll in 1946.
Merchant and marine insurance broker. Correspondence, letterbooks, diary, account books, ledgers, inventories, indexes, receipts, and miscellaneous documents relating to Koch’s investment business in Philadelphia, Amsterdam, and Alexandria, Va.
Surveyor and civil engineer. Correspondence, employment records, biographical notes, and photographs chiefly relating to Henderson's work as chief surveyor of the Panama Canal and as civil engineer for the the Panama Railroad.
Ambassador to Ireland, son of Senator Robert A. Taft, and grandson of President William H. Taft. Chiefly correspondence between Taft and his parents, Robert A. and Martha Wheaton Bowers Taft, especially during his years as a student at the Taft School, Yale University, and Princeton University.
Army officer, governor of Ohio, and United States senator from Ohio. Includes originals and printed versions of correspondence with Marcus Alonzo Hanna, Theodore Roosevelt, John Sherman, and William H. Taft.
International federation of national women’s organizations; affiliated with the United Nations. Correspondence, minutes of meetings, reports, press releases, and publications concerning the involvement of the International Council of Women in educational cinematography, peace and disarmament, and other global issues.
Municipal government official, civic leader, and postmaster from Springfield, Illinois. Correspondence with Charles A. Lindbergh, speeches and writings, publications, photographs, and memorabilia relating to Lindbergh’s cross-country airmail route which included service to Springfield, Illinois, and his flight of 1927 from New York to Paris. Includes a philatelic cover which Lindbergh carried aboard the Spirit of St. Louis on his trans-Atlantic flight and mailed to Conkling from Paris.
Army officer. Correspondence, military papers, a map, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating chiefly to Lawton's military career. Includes a copy of a journal of Esther Voorhees Hasson, 1899, and a copy of a diary of Leonard Wood, 1886.
Psychoanalyst. Correspondence, patient files, writings, a student training certificate, a concert program, and a newspaper clipping documenting Brunswick’s contributions to psychoanalytic theory including her treatment of Sergius Pankejeff, a former patient of Sigmund Freud referred to as the “Wolf Man” in Freud’s case study, and her work on the pre-Oedipal phase of libido development.
Artist, teacher, and writer. Correspondence, a diary, reports, notes, writings, and children’s artwork documenting Paneth’s therapeutic use of art in working with children who suffered traumatic experiences. Included is her work with children during the bombardment of London in 1941-1942 and her postwar work with children who survived German concentration camps.
Author, lecturer, and explorer. Correspondence, writings, lectures, notes, clippings, address book, drawings, awards, menus, books, photographs, passports, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous material relating primarily to Belgium, the Belgian Congo, and Africa.
Historian, editor, and educator. Correspondence, diaries and journals, lectures, speeches, writings, research material, subject files, family correspondence, and collected historical manuscripts documenting Bassett's career as historian, editor and university professor.
Family and general correspondence, diaries, journals, books and writings by Coan on Hawaii, and Coan family material relating mainly to Coan's missionary work in Hawaii, Patagonia, and the Marquesas Islands.
Abolitionist, author, and Congregationalist clergyman. Primarily drafts of Beecher’s sermons and a small amount of correspondence, seminary notes, notes for speeches and lectures, other writings, and miscellaneous material.
Psychoanalyst. Correspondence, photographs, writings, and printed matter relating to Fleischmann's experiences as a Viennese psychoanalyst and associate of Raoul Wallenberg in Budapest during German Nazi occupation.
Correspondence, diaries, family history, personal reminiscences, notes, clippings, and printed material chiefly of Charles Julius Allen and his daughter, Grace Elizabeth Allen, relating largely to his life as a cadet at the United States Military Academy and during the Civil War, and to her life as recorded in her diaries.
Correspondence, articles, memoranda, editorials, essays, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter pertaining to the publication of the American Foreign Service Journal issued in Washington, D.C., by the American Foreign Service Association, also known as the Foreign Service Association.
Naval officer and journalist. Correspondence, bulletins, biographical data, naval news sheets, radio dispatches, reports, orders, commissions, transcripts of congressional testimony, writings, photographs, clippings, and other records relating to Fullam's naval career.
Norman Hapgood, editor, diplomat, and author; and Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood, editor and translator. Correspondence, family papers, speeches and writings, subject files, clippings, and miscellaneous material of the Hapgoods relating primarily to family matters, current affairs, and politics.
Civil engineer and public official. Correspondence, minutes, memoranda, reports, speeches, and articles relating to the selection of a route for an isthmian canal and to Haupt's efforts to secure the Nicaraguan route includes records of the Nicaraguan Canal Commission and the Isthmian Canal Commission, with further material relating to Herman Haupt and his duties as chief of construction and operation of the United States Bureau of Military Railroads during the Civil War.
Naval officer. Correspondence, articles, memoranda, and miscellaneous papers relating to Belknap’s naval career.
Jurist, lawyer, author, associate justice of the Supreme Court of the Philippines, and secretary of police and commerce of the Philippine Commission. Typewritten diaries, a letterbook, newspaper clippings, and translations from Spanish and Filipino of newspaper articles from the Philippines relating to Elliott’s service in the Philippines during the presidency of William H. Taft.
Educator, lawyer, and United States senator from Tennessee. Correspondence, biographical material, a memorandum book, writings, printed matter and other material relating primarily to Fowler’s political career as a Unionist during the Civil War and as United States senator from Tennessee during Reconstruction.
Writings, organizational records, biographical data, correspondence, photograph, and printed matter pertaining principally to psychoanalytic organizations and to writings by various individuals on psychoanalytic theory, the history of psychoanalysis, and the work of individual psychoanalysts. Also includes microfilm reproductions of correspondence from psychoanalysts and members of the Freud family.
Telegrapher. Microfilm of correspondence, diary, journal, facsimiles, photographs, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and drafts and annotated proof sheets of Bates’s writings. Includes eleven Abraham Lincoln manuscripts. Forms part of Alfred Whital Stern collection of Lincolniana in the Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library.
Evangelist, born William Ashley Sunday. Chiefly newspaper clippings compiled by Sunday's press agent concerning revivals held by Sunday. Also includes miscellaneous correspondence, sermon notes, brochures, and other printed matter.
Social secretary at the White House. Letters, notes, scrapbooks, and photographs documenting Helm's career as social secretary at the White House during the Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Harry S. Truman administrations.
British diplomat. Diaries and correspondence relating primarily to the diplomatic career of Sir Henry Howard and documenting his postings at Hague, Netherlands, the Vatican during World War I, and in China, Denmark, France, Greece, Guatemala, Russia, and the United States, also including the diaries and correspondence of his daughter, Baroness Marie Ernestine Howard von Recum, and the correspondence of his other family members and relatives.
Librarian and archivist. Correspondence, memoranda, diaries, articles and speeches, genealogical and biographical material, drafts and typescripts, and miscellaneous items relating primarily to the National Archives, where Hyde served as director of archival service (1934-1942).
Librarian to Louis XIV. An inventory of the French royal archives from 1615 to 1626 compiled by Dupuy and Théodore Godefroy.
Continental congressman, United States senator from South Carolina, diplomat. Correspondence and miscellaneous material concerning the Izard family regarding domestic life and social affairs in Charleston, South Carolina, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and including the involvement of family members in managing their estate in South Carolina and the Tripolitan War.
Lawyer, United States senator from New York, and United States secretary of state and attorney general. Correspondence, diary, journal, account books, minute book, printed material, drafts of memoranda, and a journal of college reading relating mainly to New York state, national, and international politics from the Civil War to the 1890s.
Secretary to President Thomas Jefferson, diplomat, and landowner. Diplomatic, financial, and personal correspondence, financial and business papers, memorabilia, and other papers relating to Short's activities as secretary to Jefferson, his diplomatic missions, and business interests.
Economist and author. Correspondence, speeches, and printed matter relating to Fillebrown's promotion of the single tax and the activities of the Massachusetts Single Tax League.
Soldier, explorer, and diplomat. Personal and official correspondence, articles, speeches, news clippings, scrapbook, awards, commissions, maps, and photographs concerning Chaillé-Long's career as an explorer and public servant.
Educator. Mainly writings and notes by Murray on education and the history and culture of Japan based on Murray’s observations while superintending the educational reform of that country.
Correspondence, diaries, account books, memorandum books, legal and business records, indentures, and miscellaneous papers of Thomas Lee Shippen, William Shippen Jr., Anne Home Shippen Livingston, Edward Shippen, and other family members. Also included are papers of the Nicholson family.
Abolitionist, merchant, and publisher. Correspondence, journals, and other papers reflecting Tappan's interests in abolition, African American education, religion, and his business ventures.
National non-profit organization. Correspondence, legal records, newspaper clippings, press releases, printed material, and other records documenting the organization’s work as a clearinghouse for information concerning state laws, lawsuits, and various legal and social issues relating to women’s efforts to retain their chosen name after marriage.
United States deputy assistant secretary of state, Democratic Party official, author, and public speaker. Journals, family papers, correspondence, memoranda, reports, lists, speeches, interviews, drafts of writings, scrapbooks, photographs, newspaper clippings, and other printed matter documenting Louchheim's public service and leadership in the Democratic Party.
Lawyer, educator, and author. Correspondence, memoranda, legal material and opinions, writings, speeches, engagement file, teaching file, organization and committee file, clippings, photographs, appointment calendars, and other papers relating primarily to Dash's legal career after 1964, and more particularly his role in governmental investigations.
Author and journalist. Correspondence, diaries, family papers, subject files, speeches and writings, financial records, scrapbooks, and miscellany relating primarily to Furman's family, personal life, and career as a journalist and author.
Educator, editor, and psychologist. Correspondence, diaries, speeches, lectures, articles, notes, financial papers, biographical and genealogical material, family papers, printed matter, and other papers relating primarily to Cattell's professional and academic affiliations.
French diplomat and first minister of the French Republic to the United States. Correspondence written and received during Genet's diplomatic service in Russia and the United States; also legation accounts, extracts from English newspapers, notes relating to England and America, scientific papers, a memoir prepared by his son, Geo. Clinton Genet, and other descendants, and printed material. 
Political scientist, educator, and government consultant. Chiefly subject files consisting of correspondence, memoranda, reports, research data, maps, charts, printed and near-print material, and miscellany. The papers relate principally to projects Gosnell conducted for various government agencies, including a study on state and regional planning for the National Resources Committee; studies on government information services, especially those of the Office of War Information and the Department of State; and analyses of foreign elections for the Central Intelligence Agency, primarily in the Philippines, Indonesia, and the Sudan.
Communist Party official. Correspondence, memoranda, memoirs and additional writings, notes, printed matter, and other papers primarily relating to Benjamin’s life and his work in the Communist Party, particularly his activities as a leader in the organized unemployed movement during the 1930s.
Psychiatrist. Correspondence consisting primarily of letters by Bergler to Mrs. Walter Charak in large part concerning his writings as well as hers. Also includes reprints of his articles on psychiatric and psychoanalytic subjects.
Clergyman, educator, and farmer. Correspondence, business and financial papers, subject files, reports, speeches, newspaper clippings, and miscellany relating to various members of the Chase family, especially Cornelius Chase, his son, Cornelius Thurston Chase, and the latter's career as superintendent of public instruction in Florida. Other material concerns the slave trade in Richmond, Virginia, the Confederate Army, and the Reverend Jonas King.
Journalist. Correspondence, memoranda, diaries and writings, notebooks, dispatches, press releases, radio scripts, reports, printed matter, scrapbooks, promotional matter, photographs, and reference material chiefly pertaining to the New Deal and World War II.
George Gamow, physicist, astronomer, and author. Barbara Gamow, editor and translator. Correspondence, drafts of speeches, articles, and books, and other papers relating principally to George Gamow's career as an astronomer, physicist, and popularizer of science and to Barbara Gamow's personal and literary associations.
Spanish poet. Letters, postcards, and poems written to Jiménez or his wife, Zenobia Camprubí de Jiménez, by such Spanish poets as Azorín, Rubén Darío, Antonio Machado, Alfonso Reyes, and Miguel de Unamuno.
Newspaperman, art historian, and author. Correspondence research notes, clippings, reports, and drafts of writings chiefly relating to Kauffmann's research on equestrian statues.
Diplomat, poet, and author. Diaries, correspondence, subject and writings files, and scrapbooks relating to Keene's career in the consular service and to his writings. 
Clergyman and abolitionist. Autobiography, correspondence, record book, newspaper clippings, notes, speeches, and a Bible relating to Keep and his family.
Eugenio María de Hostos, Puerto Rican nationalist, writer, and educator and his son, Eugenio Carlos de Hostos, military officer. Correspondence, family papers, photographs, miscellaneous papers, a diary of Eugenio María de Hostos, and papers relating to the renovation of the castle of Sotomayor in Pontevedra, Spain.
Poet. Chiefly notebooks containing drafts, fair copies, and fragments of Housman's poetry, in addition to a few letters and miscellaneous items. Also includes an analysis of some of the poems by John W. Carter.
Journalist and United States postmaster general. Correspondence and other papers relating primarily to Kendall's work on behalf of Cherokee claims and treaties and to the Magnetic Telegraph Co., of which he was president.
Psychoanalyst, educator, and writer. Correspondence, diaries, biographical data, reports, surveys, speeches and writings, school papers, certificates, legal documents, and photographs documenting Lewin's contributions to psychoanalysis in the United States through his writings, teaching, and involvement in various psychoanalytic organizations.
Lawyer, diplomat, secretary of state during the Wilson administration, and member of the American mission to negotiate a peace treaty following World War I. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, resolutions, desk diaries, book manuscripts, speeches, scrapbooks, clippings, printed material, memorabilia, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to Lansing's years (1914-1920) as counsel to the Department of State and as secretary of state and particularly to American foreign relations during World War I, the Paris Peace Conference, and Lansing's relations with President Woodrow Wilson and with various foreign diplomats and statesmen.
United States army officer and commissioner of agriculture. Correspondence, journals, biographical material, financial records, orders for agricultural equipment and supplies, printed matter, and photographs in physical format as well as a map in both digital and physical format. Relating chiefly to Capron's role as agricultural adviser to the Japanese government in the agricultural development of Hokkaido.
United States army officer. Correspondence, diaries, articles, military transcripts and papers, biographical and genealogical material, financial records, maps, and charts pertaining to Carlton's service in the Union army and following the Civil War in wars with various Native American groups in the western United States.
Geologist and educator. Correspondence, memoranda, manuscripts of articles, book reviews, speeches, reports, research notes, press releases, printed materials, maps, illustrations, and other papers pertaining primarily to Rubey's career with the United States Geological Survey, as consultant on geological projects, and as member of professional, scientific, and educational organizations.
Union Army officer, educator, and governor of Maine. Correspondence, biographical notes, record books, military reports, speeches, accounts of engagements of the Army of the Potomac, and other material mostly concerning the Civil War.
Playwright, author, and copyright specialist. Correspondence, literary manuscripts, subject files, and research material and documenting Middleton's career as a playwright, author, and copyright specialist at the Department of Justice. Also includes correspondence relating to the La Follette and Middleton families.
Attorney general, associate and chief justice of the Supreme Court, and educator. Professional and family correspondence, writings, reports, legal case files, biographical information, and other material relating primarily to Stone's service on the Supreme Court.
Diplomat, jurist, lawyer, and United States representative from Maine. Correspondence, speeches and writings, notes, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material largely concerning Hawaiian economic and political conditions, sugar plantations and trade, Chinese labor, the Hawaiian supreme court, of which Allen was chief justice, and the United States-Hawaiian Reciprocity Treaty of 1876.
Author, historian, and educator. Correspondence, memorabilia, and research notes for Anderson’s books, articles, lectures, and classes, especially in preparation for an unfinished study of the secession crisis, "The Two Hundred Days of 1860-1861."
Collector. Notes, notebooks, and other papers relating to heraldry.
Scholar, diplomat, politician, and historian. Primarily writings by Baylies relating to the American Revolution, the Confederation and the Constitution, Alexander Hamilton, and the administrations of George Washington, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson.
Nurse and volunteer worker. Correspondence, diaries, family papers, subject files, speeches and writings, scrapbooks, and other papers relating principally to Becker’s volunteer activities on behalf of various health and medical causes, especially the crusade against tuberculosis and cancer.
Cartoonist. Correspondence, drawings, printed matter, invitations, photographs, and a speech relating primarily to Berryman's career as a political cartoonist for the Washington Post and the Washington Star.
Lawyer, editor, army officer, diplomat, and presidential secretary. Correspondence, journals, draft messages of Andrew Jackson, diplomatic papers, newsclippings, scrapbook, sketches, photos, and other papers covering Donelson's career as aide-de-camp and secretary to Andrew Jackson, charge d'affaires to Texas, minister to Prussia, editor of the  Washington Union, and candidate for vice president. Includes papers of Donelson's wife, Emily Tennessee Donelson, daughter, Mary Emily Donelson, and other family material. Also original documents relating to the ratification of the Constitution by Virginia.
Print and broadcast journalist. Broadcast scripts, articles and book production material, correspondence, speeches, and printed material relating to Schorr's career in journalism.
Army officer, lawyer, United States secretary of the treasury, and solicitor general. Correspondence, speeches, biographical material, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, other printed material, and photographs relating primarily to Bristow's service as solicitor general and secretary of the treasury in the administrations of Ulysses S. Grant and to his New York City law firm. Includes a letterpress book of incoming and outgoing correspondence of the commissioner of internal revenue concerning the whiskey frauds of 1875.
Poet and author. Correspondence, writings, and other material relating mainly to Garrison's published and unpublished poetry and plays.
Naval officer. Correspondence, letterbooks, diaries, journal, military papers, financial papers, scrapbooks, and photographs chiefly relating to Dewey's activities as naval commander in the Far East during the Spanish-American War, especially at the battle of Manila Bay; as admiral and president of the General Board of the Navy ; president of the court of inquiry concerning Winfield Scott Schley; and commander-in-chief of naval winter maneuvers.
Historian and diplomat. Correspondence, diaries, speeches, writings, autobiographical notes, printed matter, photographs, and other papers relating to Dodd's work as an author, professor of history at the University of Chicago, and ambassador to Germany.
Child psychologist and educator. Personal and professional correspondence, diaries, manuscripts of articles and books, lectures and speeches, subject files, bibliography, photographs, newspaper clippings, biographical material on the Bates family, and other papers chiefly documenting Ames's career as a child psychologist.
Lawyer and United States Senate sergeant at arms. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, speeches, reports, legislative proposals, research files, notebooks, travel materials, campaign materials, financial and legal papers, Senate floor statements, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other papers pertaining primarily to Liebengood's service on the minority staff of the United States Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities, as minority staff director of the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and as legislative counsel to Senate minority leader Howard H. Baker.
Russian author and critic, criminologist, and lawyer. Correspondence, speeches, drafts and typescripts, notes, memoranda, and other material relating to Russia and the Soviet Union and to Brasol's writings and work as a criminologist.
Businessman and jurist. Correspondence, speeches, writings, legal records, financial records, a scrapbook, printed matter, and other material documenting mainly Caton's activities as a lawyer and businessman in Chicago and as associate and chief justice of the supreme court of Illinois.
Biologist and ornithologist. Correspondence, research and writings, field notes and notebooks, poetry, prose, reviews, and other avocational writings, calendars, diaries, memorabilia, scrapbook, wills, and printed matter chiefly documenting McAtee's career as a biologist and ornithologist at the United States Bureau of Biological Survey and its successor, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and as curator of Hemiptera at the Smithsonian Institution.
Architect and engineer. Correspondence, journals. memoranda, minutes and reports, drafts of speeches and writings, legal and financial papers, subject file, biographical material, poetry, notes, appointment calendars, charts, graphs, diagrams, clippings, printed matter, photographs, scrapbooks, and other material chiefly dating from 1960 to 1980, documenting Owings's career as a founding partner of the architectural firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, as chairman of public commissions responsible for the redesign of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C., as a member of various commissions relating to conservation, preservation, and redevelopment in California, and as an author of works on architecture and city planning.
African American educational administrator and advocate. Correspondence, journal, writings and speeches, notes, reports, organizational records, clippings, printed materials, memorabilia, and miscellaneous items relating chiefly to Patterson's efforts, following his retirement as president of Tuskegee Institute in 1953, to preserve and develop African American institutions of higher learning.
Lawyer and government official. Personal and family correspondence, official correspondence, memoranda, speeches and writings, and daily records chiefly documenting Taft's government service in the Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, and Ronald Reagan presidential administrations.
Legislative service organization operating from 1959 to 1995 to assist Democratic members of the United States House of Representatives. Records include research publications, reports, position papers, draft legislation, correspondence, legal documents, government records, voting and whip records, hearing statements, committee and caucus records, surveys, media files, campaign records, photographs, and training material provided to members in support of common political and legislative goals. Also includes financial and administrative records of the organization.
Author, editor, and professor. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, speeches, writings, book reviews, reports, radio and television transcripts, research materials, press releases, clippings, printed matter, posters, photographs, and other papers pertaining to Berry's research on the life and literary career of poet Langston Hughes; to her collaboration with professor and literary critic J. Saunders Redding; to her career as a writer, editor, and professor; and to her work on behalf of civil rights and women.
Lawyer and United States senator from Idaho. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, subject and legislative files, speeches and articles, patronage and constituent files, notebooks, newspaper clippings, and other material relating primarily to Borah's political interests and career in the Senate.
Jurist. Court papers, office and subject files, speeches and writings, and scrapbooks chiefly documenting Kaufman's judicial career on the United States District Court, Southern District of New York and United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit.
United States senator from Ohio, Republican Party leader, and lawyer. Correspondence, family and personal papers, political and legislative files, subject files, business and financial papers, speeches and writings, and other papers relating primarily to Taft's career in the Senate and to his role as a national leader in the Republican Party.
Poet. Letters from Brodsky to Kira Fedorovna Samosiuk including Brodsky's poetry and drawings.
Naval officer. Official and general correspondence, orders to duty, speech, article, and book file, memoranda, notes, printed material, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to King's activities as commander in chief of the United States Fleet and chief of naval operations during World War II.
United States secretary of defense, president of the World Bank, and corporate executive. Correspondence, memoranda, organization records, subject files, speeches and writings, reports, conferences and meetings, background and research material, and other papers relating primarily to McNamara's private and public life following his service as secretary of defense, including his leadership of the World Bank, his role as counselor and adviser to various private corporations and nonprofit organizations and foundations, and his commentary on and advocacy for solutions to the critical domestic and foreign policy issues of the times.
Economist and author. Correspondence, financial statements, notes, clippings, reports on various areas and countries, and other data, largely pertaining to the Institute of Current World Affairs, Washington, D.C., and the world situation. Also includes papers of Levi and LeRoy Davis, farmers and merchants of the Genesee River Valley in New York, during the 1800s.
Historian. Correspondence, research material, reports, writings, speeches, photographs, and transcripts of documents in French, Spanish, and English repositories relating to the early history of Florida.
Educator and social worker. Correspondence, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous papers concerning relief work with the Red Cross and Duryea War Relief during and after World War I with Italian and French war wounded and children. Also includes family papers, account books, scrapbooks, manuscript plays and miscellany, some relating to Richard Crawford.
Author, editor, and poet. Correspondence, writings, minutes, scrapbooks, printed matter, and miscellaneous items pertaining chiefly to Croffut's publications, activities with the Anti-Imperialist League, and the presidential campaign of 1900. Includes material relating to Ethan Allen Hitchcock, copies of correspondence with Sophia Amelia Peabody Hawthorne, wife of Nathaniel Hawthorne, journals of Henry Alfred Robbins, letters of John Quincy Adams and Jefferson Davis, and autograph material.
Lawyer and publicist. Correspondence, memoranda, diaries, notebooks, printed articles, speeches, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and other printed material reflecting Pinchot's interests in civil liberties, labor problems, government, and politics.
Scriptwriter and humorist. Scripts of the daytime radio series Vic and Sade written by Rhymer for airing on the National Broadcasting Company.
Lawyer, state legislator, and United States representative from Alabama. Correspondence, letter books, legal record books, journals, dockets, notebooks, and an unpublished autobiography of P. Phillips, relating chiefly to the law practice of P. Phillips and his son, W. Hallet Phillips, both of whom practiced before the Supreme Court. Contains the writings of P. Phillips's wife, Eugenia, including her journal written while interned during the Civil War, and of her parents, Jacob Clavius Levy and Fanny Yates Levy.
Collection of documents from Spanish colonial Puerto Rico including financial material, military papers, orders and decrees from the Spanish government, and miscellaneous items from colonial Puerto Rico.
Author and music critic. Correspondence, drafts, galley proofs, typescripts, notes, and press clippings relating to Davenport's books and novels.
Naval officer. Correspondence, orders to duty, subject files concerning invasion plans and occupation reports for Guam, Japan, Kwajalein Islands (Marshall Islands), Leyte Island (Philippines), Lingayen (Luzon, Philippines), Okinawa Island (Japan), Saipan (Northern Mariana Islands), and Tarawa Atoll (Kiribati), and printed matter relating to Knowles's service with the Amphibious Forces in the Pacific during World War II.
Naval officer. Correspondence, subject file, and miscellaneous material relating to Sicard’s naval career, including diagrams and memoranda for breech-loading howitzers and his plans for steel armor plate for ships.
Naval officer, explorer, and diplomat. Correspondence, journals, diaries, notebooks, logbooks, subject files, newspaper clippings, and printed matter relating to Shufeldt’s career in the navy and as an explorer and diplomat.
Haitian government official. Correspondence, minutes, agreements, financial reports, and studies concerning the formation and mission of the Société haitiano-américaine de développement agricole, of which Dartigue was a founder and vice president.
Author, journalist, news analyst, and government official. Correspondence, manuscripts of articles and early pieces of fiction, subject file, radio scripts, biographical material, lectures and speeches, and photographs relating to Davis's career.
U. S. secretary of labor and senator from Pennsylvania. Correspondence, diaries, speeches and writings, investgation files, financial papers, scrapbooks, photographs, and printed matter relating to Davis's service as secretary of labor in three Republican presidential administrations, his tenure as senator from Pennsylvania, and as organizer and leader of the Loyal Order of Moose.
Jurist, lawyer, and educator. Correspondence, memoranda, writings, case files, reports, notes, pamphlets, lists, newspaper clippings, and printed matter, relating mainly to White's career as a law professor and judge.
Lawyer and army officer. Correspondence, diaries, biographical material, genealogical notebooks, legal and business papers, scrapbooks, photographs, memorabilia, and other papers relating to the family of Charles Ewing during and after the Civil War.
Papers of Oliver Freud, photographer, engineer, and son of Sigmund Freud, and Henny Fuchs Freud, artist and wife of Oliver Freud. Correspondence, subject files, writings, photographs, and related material pertaining primarily to the emigration of family members from Austria and Europe during the Jewish holocaust. Also features a transcript of Oliver Freud’s recollection of his father, Sigmund Freud.
Explorer of the western United States, army officer, and politician (John Charles Frémont). Author (Jessie Benton Frémont). Correspondence, presidential campaign material from 1856, Civil War items, writings, prints, photographs, and printed matter relating to the careers of both John Charles Frémont and Jessie Benton Frémont.
Scientist, corporate executive, and author. Correspondence, drafts of books, articles, and speeches, interviews, scientific articles, photographs, topical files, printed matter, digital files, and miscellaneous material.
Attorney, businessman, public official, diplomat, United States secretary of commerce and labor, and author. Correspondence, diaries, speeches, writings, legal records, pamphlets, clippings, scrapbooks, photographs, memorabilia, and other papers relating chiefly to Straus's service as minister and later ambassador to the Ottoman Empire (Turkey), United States secretary of commerce and labor, and member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, Hague, Netherlands.
Correspondence, office files, press releases, scrapbook of clippings, and other printed material relating to the committee's activities in the 1936 presidential campaign. 
Dramatist. Typescripts of plays by Sherwood submitted for copyright to the Library of Congress Copyright Office.
Lawyer. Correspondence, reports, speeches, notes, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material reflecting Tabor's part in the activities of Czechoslovak-Americans on behalf of the Republic of Czechoslovakia.
Neurologist, psychoanalyst, and educator. Correspondence, letterbooks, notebooks, genealogical material, biographical material, scrapbooks, photographs, articles, sketches, studies, newspaper clippings, memorabilia, and a diary relating primarily to Jelliffe’s career and to his family.
Economist, educator, author, and member of the first Federal Reserve Board of Governors. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, proceedings, writings, reports, speeches, notes, press releases, printed material, memorabilia, and other papers relating chiefly to Miller’s service as a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 1914-1936.
Author and adventurer. Correspondence, diaries, handwritten drafts and printed copies of writings, biographical material, scrapbooks, subject files, newspaper clippings, printed matter, photographs, drawings, and other papers relating primarily to Munroe's literary career and travels, including on a survey teams for the Union Pacific Railroad Company and the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway Company.
Scientist, engineer, and businessman. Correspondence, speeches, memoranda, reports, newspaper clippings, photographs, and biographical material relating primarily to Murphree's activities as president of Esso Research and Engineering Company and as an official of the Fifth World Petroleum Congress.
Army officer and surgeon. Correspondence, biographical material, and printed matter relating in part to Myer's service as a surgeon in the army and his role in the founding and development of the Signal Corps, including during the Civil War.
United States Postmaster general, secretary of war, judge advocate general of the United States Army, and lawyer. Correspondence, diaries, financial papers, legal papers, newspaper clippings, speeches, photographs, and printed matter relating to Holt's duties as judge advocate general, especially his work on the military commission that tried the Lincoln assassination conspirators, the trial of Mary Surratt, and various controversies surrounding the work of the commission. Other topics include Kentucky and Mississippi politics, Democratic Party politics, the elections of 1852 and 1856, the Civil War, and Holt's duties as secretary of war.
Psychiatrist and poet. Diaries, correspondence, notebooks, biographical material, family papers, genealogical records, literary papers, scrapbooks, printed matter, and other papers relating to Moore's career as a psychiatrist and poet.
Methodist clergyman and theologian. Diaries, correspondence, writings, printed matter, photographs, and miscellaneous material documenting Oxnam's life and work as a clergyman, stance on church-state issues, and controversies relating to Catholicism, anti-communism, and other issues of faith and politics.
Bound volumes of files kept by the Jesuits, original owners of the hacienda. Subjects include the acquisition and sale of land, ownership disputes, water rights, rental of property, agricultural production, livestock and livestock brands, and relations with the Indigenous people of Mexico. Also includes correspondence and fiscal accounts with the local railroad company.
Resident of Salem, Massachusetts. Letters, clipped signatures, and other autograph items of prominent American and a few British figures, chiefly of the nineteenth century.
Economist, diplomat and humanitarian. Correspondence, journals, minutes, speeches, statements, scrapbooks, memoranda, news clippings, printed matter, photographs, and other material relating mainly to Davis's participation between the world wars in international conferences on peace, disamament, and international monetary matters.
U.S. Air Force officer and U.S. Army officer. Correspondence, speeches, writings, reports, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, awards, maps, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to Doolittle's service in the U.S. Air Force.
Editor, executive, and journalist. Correspondence, notebooks, writings, and background material relating mainly to Dudman's career as a journalist with the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
Geologist. Diaries and field notes, letterbooks, correspondence, family papers, subject files, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating chiefly to Emmons's family and his career as a geologist.
Archivist, librarian, historian, and editor. Chiefly correspondence relating to The Writings of George Washington edited by Fitzpatrick, together with card files indexing the work, drafts of speeches and of a study of Virginia colonial governors, and other papers and reference files.
A representative sampling of mask works (schematic plans or layouts of an integrated circuit or computer chip) deposited with the Library of Congress Copyright Office.
Reports relating to persons arrested as a result of the society’s actions, including notations by Anthony Comstock, secretary of the society (1873-1915), and records relating to the society’s predecessor, the Young Men’s Christian Association of the City of New York Committee for the Suppression of Vice.
Manufacturer and retailer of farm goods, chairman of the La Follette for President Committee, and Robert M. La Follette's campaign treasurer. Correspondence, financial records, lists, charts, promotional material, and others papers relating to the 1924 presidential campaign of Robert M. La Follette (1855-1925).
Miscellaneous documents relating to various topics. Includes manuscript of thanksgiving service for victory of Russian troops over King of Prussia at Frankfort am Main, Germay, 1759; letters in German relating to the Women's Association of Riga, Latvsa, 1846-1859; officer attendance records of the Nicolaevski Academy of the General Staff, St. Petersburg, Russia,1879-1881; and other papers.
Editor, author, and educator. Autographed letters and correspondence with poets, writers, artists, musicians, and actors; family papers; and miscellaneous personal and academic material stemming from Chase's career as a writer and university professor.
Continental Army officer, jurist, merchant, and legislator, of Delaware County, N.Y. Family and general correspondence, orders, petitions, and legal and other papers of Foote and various members of his family. Topics include the Tammany Society of New York, the death of Alexander Hamilton, the War of 1812, the incident aboard the frigate Chesapeake, the first Seminole War, and New York politics.
Psychologist and author. Correspondence, drafts of speeches, lectures, and writings, memoranda, reports, legal documents, and printed matter concerning Rapaport's research and writings in the fields of psychology and psychoanalysis and his association with the Austen Riggs Center, Stockbridge, Massachusetts.
Publicist, broadcasting executive, and consultant. Correspondence, autobiographical memoir, speeches and writings, business papers, clippings, and scrapbooks relating primarily to Kobak's work with McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, the National Broadcasting Company, and the Mutual Broadcasting System and to the early years of radio and television broadcasting and to his expertise in the field of public relations and communications.
Correspondence, diaries, journals, clippings, maps, photographs, and other papers of William Lee (1772-1840) of Boston, Massachusetts, Washington, D.C., and France and members of his family. Of particular interest are Lee's diaries and letters detailing his experiences as a commercial agent and secretary to the United States Legation in France. Also includes a journal and photographs of a topographical mission to Utah in 1858-1859 by a descendent, William Lee (1841-1893).
New York merchant, financier, land speculator, and state legislator. Family and business correspondence, business and ship's papers, legal papers, accounts of voyages to Asia, Europe, and South America, and printed matter. Includes correspondence with foreign merchants and relates to trade conditions, Loyalist matters, and to events in Congress during the first session following the adoption of the Constitution.
Actress. Chiefly synopses of silent films and scripts of plays, films, and television productions in which Gish did not appear; scripts, some annotated, for productions in which she did perform; letters received by Gish; and legal files.
Anthropologist and physician. Correspondence, diaries, family papers, writings, scientific and medical data, and miscellaneous material pertaining to McGee's studies of communistic societies in the United States such as the Shakers and the Bethel and Oneida communities, to her duties as acting assistant surgeon, U.S. Army in the Spanish-American War; and to the formation of the Women's Anthropological Society of America. Contains family correspondence of McGee's grandfather, Charles A. Hassler, which includes a letter from James Madison, 1832.
Geographer, inventor, and cartographer. Correspondence, writings, subject files, research data, printed matter, and other material relating mainly to Boggs's geographic studies and to his inventions and research interests.
Presidential secretary, lawyer, and businessman of Washington, D.C. Correspondence relating primarily to Clark's work as a consultant on legislative, customs, and tariff matters for various business concerns, and letters from his service as secretary to President Calvin Coolidge.
Ohio governor and legislator, military officer, and U.S. representative. Correspondence, land survey notes, plats, tax returns, and other documents on land holdings in and near the Scioto River Valley in Ohio; also account books, orderly book of the U.S. 19th Infantry Regiment during the War of 1812, and printed matter. With the correspondence are army returns, reports, and general orders for the years 1814-1815 while McArthur was in command of the U.S. Army Department of the Northwest; other papers relate to the period of his congressional service.
Newspaper editor and publisher, and U.S. secretary of the navy. Correspondence, diaries, speeches and writings, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and miscellany relating to Knox's service in the Spanish-American War and World War I, his work as editor and publisher, 1936 campaign for vice president, and stint as secretary of the navy. Includes papers of his wife, Annie Reid Knox. 
Journalist. Correspondence, articles, book projects, columns, newsletters, newspapers, material relating to speaking engagements, topical files, records of organizations, scrapbooks, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to Spivack's career as a newspaper reporter, syndicated columnist, and newsletter publisher and to his participation in student groups and other organizations seeking the intervention of the United States in World War II prior to the Pearl Harbor attack.
Suffragist, social worker, reformer, and author. Family papers, correspondence, subject files, speeches and writings, an autograph collection, and miscellaneous papers relating primarily to Park's activities on behalf of women's suffrage and her associations with the National American Woman Suffrage Association and the National League of Women Voters.
Lawyer, judge, and Democratic Party presidential candidate. Correspondence, autobiographical and biographical studies, speeches, financial records, legal opinions, scrapbooks, invitations, printed material, and photographs primarily concerning the election campaign of 1904 and Parker's work with legal, civic, and philanthropic organizations.
Editor, biographer, and archivist. Correspondence, diaries, notes, writings, subject files, and miscellany relating primarily to Robertson's activities and scholarship in Hispanic studies, especially Florida and the Philippines.
Physician, historian, and bibliographer. Correspondence pertaining primarily to O'Callaghan's career as a physician, legislator in Lower Canada, and editor of the Montreal Vindicator. Also concerns bibliographic matters including records of New York state, rare bibliographic Americana, editions of the Bible, and material relating to America found in European archives. Includes a draft of his History of New Netherland (1846-1848).
Nuclear chemist and co-discoverer of Promethium, element 61 on the periodic table of elements. Subject files, correspondence, writings, speeches, biographical material, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and awards documenting Glendenin's work on the Manhattan Project, the Bikini Scientific Resurvey, and his career at Argonne National Laboratory.
Editor and publisher. Correspondence largely devoted to Littell's work as publisher of Museum of Foreign Literature and Science and Littell's Living Age. Notable correspondents include James Buchanan, John C. Calhoun, DeWitt Clinton, Andrew Jackson, William Hickling Prescott, and Thomas Jefferson.
U. S. secretary of commerce and lawyer. Government documents, briefing books, topical files, newsletters, reports, speeches, photographs, trip itineraries, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to Brown’s service as a cabinet member during the Bill Clinton administration.
Ambassador to Italy and to Russia, postmaster general, and secretary of the navy. Diaries, family correspondence, and memorabilia recording Meyer’s social and family life and national and international events of which he was a part.
U.S. army officer and government official. Copies of letters, telegrams, dispatches, and reports, records of Parker's military service, pamphlets, documents, and other papers relating to his service as an army officer and attaché during World War I and later as a member of special missions in Latin America.
Librarian and collector. Correspondence, legal notes, dictionaries of ecclesiastical and civil law, land records, genealogical material, financial records, pamphlets, printed material, and other manuscripts relating to mainly to France and Italy collected by Richardson. Subjects include law, medicine, and religion.
Correspondence, speeches and writings, financial papers, newspaper clippings and miscellany of various members of the Montgomery family, especially Giles Foster Montgomery (1835-1888) and Emily Redington Montgomery (1839-1898). Includes papers of allied Peck and Perkins families relating to the experiences of members in the Civil War.
Lawyer, diplomat, and educator. Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, reports, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to Morris's service as U.S. ambassador to Japan and to his special missions to Siberia.
Lawyer and politician. Letters to Griswold from various prominent figures relating to such topics as the Whig, Free Soil, and American parties, the Democratic Party, his legal practice, Massachusetts politics, patronage, the Hoosac Tunnel, the Kansas-Nebraska Act, the Civil War, and the 1853 Massachusetts Constitutional Convention.
Diplomat. Correspondence, reports, memoranda, printed material, and other papers pertaining to Gerig's service with the League of Nations primarily as commissioner-general of the pavilion at the New York World's Fair in 1939 and 1940, his work with the Department of State in a number of positions involving international organizations and the administration of trust territories, and his membership on the United Nations Trusteeship Council.
Historian and author. Correspondence, drafts, galleys, and page proofs of writings, notes, printed and near-print material, clippings, speeches, and other papers relating primarily to Green's research on the history of Washington, D.C., and the publication of her two-volume Pulitzer Prize-winning book, Washington (1962-1963).
Artist, author, editor, and cofounder of the Boy Scouts of America. Correspondence, diaries, family papers, speeches, articles, collected source material for writings and speeches, school composition books, address books, sketch books, illustrations, photographs, memorabilia, and printed matter relating chiefly to Beard's activities at the Culver Military Academy, Dan Beard Outdoor School, and with the Boy Scouts of America.
Biographer, editor, educator, and lecturer. Correspondence, diaries, manuscripts and proofs of books and other works, articles, speeches, notebooks, source materials largely relating to the American Revolution and Civil War, bibliographical material, clippings, printed material, memorabilia, maps, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to Freeman's biographical and historical research and writing.
Lawyer, state legislator, and U.S. representative from Virginia. Correspondence, legislative bills, resolutions, newspaper articles, and other papers relating chiefly to political affairs in Virginia and Flood’s legislative career.
Naval officer. Correspondence, reports, notes, scrapbooks, photographs, clippings, and miscellaneous printed matter relating primarily to McCormick's duty as Supreme Allied Commander Atlantic, 1952-1954. Includes trip reports and subject files relating to the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Author, jurist, and professor of international law. Family correspondence, general correspondence, diaries, writings, reports, sermons, notebooks, financial records, printed matter, scrapbooks, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to Stowell's career in law, activities as a student, and travels. Includes papers of the Stowell, Fuller, and Tapley families.
Paul Field Sifton, playwright, government official, and Claire Sifton, editor and author. Correspondence, diaries, writings, subject files, family papers, printed matter, and miscellany relating to the Siftons' literary, labor, and governmental careers.
Ornithologist. Chiefly correspondence with ornithologists and other scientists on bird life and bird specimens of the United States and other countries, Oberholser's work with scientific organizations, and publication of his books and articles.
Architect. Correspondence, diaries, subject files, family papers, and other papers relating chiefly to Skidmore’s career as an architect.
Historian, librarian, and archivist. Correspondence with American scholars and librarians concerning the location of Duff Green papers and transcripts and photostats of the correspondence of Green and others relating to American-British diplomacy, with emphasis on Green's missions to England. Also includes notes and memoranda from published and unpublished sources collected for the purpose of writing an account of Green's diplomatic career.
Lawyer, economist, and diplomat. Correspondence, letterbooks, articles, speeches, financial papers, business records, legal papers, and other papers relating to Steinhardt's career as ambassador to Sweden, Peru, the Soviet Union, Turkey, Czechoslovakia, and Canada.
Judge, secretary of health, education and welfare, and governor, United States representative, and senator from Connecticut. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, press material, voting records, statements, congressional testimony, speeches, articles, printed matter, scrapbooks, other administrative and legislative matter, and miscellaneous material, including microfilm of correspondence and scrapbooks, relating chiefly to Ribicoff's senatorial career.
Artist. Correspondence and other papers including a large number of letters between Peirce and his mother, Anna Hayford Peirce, that trace the development of Peirce's artistic career and his mother's travels and her social life in Bangor, Maine.
Economist. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, writings, speeches, and other papers relating chiefly to Goldenweiser's service as director of the Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Actress and playwright. General correspondence, production material, business records, and other papers concerning Gordon's career in movies and the theater.
Presbyterian clergyman and chaplain of the United States Senate (Peter Marshall). Author (Catherine Marshall). Correspondence, notes, and sermons of Peter Marshall, and drafts, galleys, scrapbooks, movie scripts, and other papers about Marshall collected by his wife, Catherine Marshall.
Lawyer, politician, and public official from Indiana. Correspondence, reports, memoranda, newspaper clippings, autograph album, and printed matter relating chiefly to Indiana and Republican Party politics and to Michener's role in Benjamin Harrison's senate and presidential campaigns.
Librarian of Congress. Correspondence, writings, bibliographical material, committee reports, congressional bills, reports, newspaper clippings, and photographs relating to Mumford’s career as a librarian.
Engineer, economist, and labor consultant. Correspondence, speech and article file, subject files, scrapbooks, and other papers relating to Beyer's career as an engineer and economist in industry and government.
Statesman, author, clergyman, diplomat, and educator. Diaries, correspondence, printed matter, clippings, memorabilia, notes and memoranda, legal papers, accounts, lectures and sermons, essays, scrapbook, manuscript of autobiography, speeches, and articles, and catalog of Curry's library. Includes autographs of presidents, Confederate leaders, Spanish noblemen, royalty, and writers, jurists, diplomats, educators, historians, scientists, reformers, artists, statesmen, literary figures, clergymen, and military men of the United States and Europe.
Psychoanalyst, social worker, and educator. Case files, lectures, speeches, writings, notes, minutes, agenda, correspondence, memoranda, biographical material, and printed matter documenting Knoepfmacher’s work as a child therapist and her writings on the treatment of children.
Newspaper columnist and author. Correspondence, memoranda, book drafts, research files for books, notebooks and notes, articles and columns by Lewis, reports, speeches, newsletters, photographs, press releases, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material documenting primarily Lewis’s professional activities.
Lawyer, editor and historian. Chiefly handwritten transcripts of documents compiled by Lowery relating to Spanish settlements in California, Florida, Louisiana, New Mexico, and Texas.
Film executive and businessman. Business records consisting of correspondence, financial and legal papers, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material relating primarily to Kleine's ventures in the early motion picture industry. Includes files relating to patent and distribution litigation, educational and European films, and to Kleine's business relations with Thomas A. Edison, Eastman Kodak Company, Motion Picture Patents Company, and Biograph Co.
Elizabeth Severn, psychotherapist, author, and psychoanalytic patient of Sándor Ferenczi; and her daughter, Margaret Severn, ballet dancer and vaudeville performer. Correspondence, writings, printed matter, and photographs concerning Elizabeth Severn's private life and her career as a psychotherapist. Correspondence, writings, art work, printed matter, photographs, and digital files relating to Margaret Severn's life as a dancer in New York theaters, in traveling vaudeville shows in the 1920s, and with European ballet companies in the 1930s.
Author and editor. Correspondence, memoranda, diary, journal, writings, speeches, transcripts of interviews, newspaper clippings, printed materials, and other papers relating primarily to Podhoretz's career as an author and editor of Commentary. 
Lawyer, judge, and U. S. secretary of war. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, and speeches reflecting Patterson's career as a jurist and service as assistant secretary, under secretary, and secretary of the War Department.
Biologist, ecologist, and environmental activist. Correspondence, speeches, writings, research files, subject files, organizational files, printed matter, photographs in both physical and digital formats, and other papers documenting Commoner's career as a biologist, ecologist, and environmental activist. Subjects include the physiochemical basis of biological processes, moral obligations of scientists, ecology, and the politics of environmental stewardship.
Commission established in 1880 by a treaty between the governments of France and the United States to resolve outstanding claims by French citizens residing in the United States for property confiscated or destroyed during the Civil War. Correspondence, petitions, inventories, depositions, lists, certificates, and receipts. Includes material relating to the Union Army's western offensive and occupation of New Orleans and to protests by French residents of Bagdad, Mexico, a settlement attacked and pillaged by U.S. Army soldiers in January 1866.
Landscape architect. Unpublished book by Griswold on the creators throughout history of garden, including correspondence, lectures, research material, travel notes, printed matter, maps, and photographs connected to the work.
Correspondence, reports, legal papers, maps, sketches, financial matter, a surveyor’s notebook, and other material relating to the early history of Louisiana under French, Spanish, and American control, including personal and official documents.
Cartographer and chief director of maps of Library of Congress Map Division. Correspondence, writings, printed matter, and other personal material relating to Phillips’s work and career at the Library of Congress as a cartographer and chief of the Library’s Map Division.
Explorer and cinematographer. Correspondence, diary, drafts of writings, film scripts and other production materials, business papers, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and other papers relating chiefly to Frissell's explorations and the production of the films, The Great Arctic Seal Hunt (1928) and The Viking (1931). Later materials relate to Frissell's disappearance in a shipwreck while on location for The Viking and attempts by members of his family to ascertain and publicize the facts of his career.
Army officer and business executive. Correspondence, personal diary, confidential cables, administrative memoranda of General John J. Pershing, records of conversations, clippings, scrapbooks, operational maps, barrage charts, sketches, records of the United States Army 2nd Division, a portrait, translations of war diaries of the German army, and other papers pertaining to Harbord's service in the American military, principally during World War I.
Union army officer and lecturer and advocate for civil rights and the Freedmen's Bureau. Married Cora Hatch, Spiritualist medium and lecturer. Handwritten diary with photographs, illustrations, and newspaper clippings in three volumes kept by Daniels during his Civil War service and Reconstruction. The third volume was written primarily by his wife, Cora Hatch. Also included are a typescript of summaries and transcripts of the diaries by C. P. Weaver and a scrapbook of newspaper clippings assembled by Daniels or his wife.
Civil rights activist. Correspondence; family papers; writings; notes; statements; programs; medals, resolutions, and other honors; financial, employment, health, and estate records; drawings; photographs; address books; appointment calendars; memorabilia; magazine and newspaper clippings; books; and other printed matter documenting her personal life and civil rights activism.
Biologist. Correspondence, diaries, speech, article, and book file, research files, and miscellaneous material relating to Pincus's life and career, especially his role in developing and testing the contraceptive pill.
Author and professor of Japanese art and culture. Born 1889; died 1974. Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, military papers, and printed material pertaining to Henderson's service during World War II as chief of the Japanese Language Section of the Allied Forces South West Pacific Area Psychological Warfare Branch and following the war as head of the Education Division of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers Civil Information and Education Section in occupied Japan.
Records documenting the NAACP's legal program through the mid-1960s and its coordinated attack on legal segregation and racial discrimination waged in state, federal and supreme courts. Includes administrative records, conference agenda, reports, committee files, correspondence and memoranda, notes, printed material, and legal case files.
Founded in 1815 as the Washington Female Orphan Asylum to care for girls left homeless by the British invasion of Washington, D.C., during the War of 1812. Official name changed to Washington City Orphan Asylum in 1828. Unofficially renamed Hillcrest Children's Village (1927-1953) and Hillcrest Children's Center (1953-). Provided for the care and protection of homeless youths until 1953 and afterward for the treatment of emotionally disturbed children. Correspondence, minutes of meetings, committee and staff reports, admittance and application records, journals, ledgers, financial statements, deeds, mortgages, bank checks, budget estimates, index cards, and miscellaneous material reflecting the financial and managerial techniques of the center.
Journalist. Correspondence, memoranda, propaganda material including leaflets, newspapers, printed matter, and ephemera, interrogations of prisoners of war, reports, newsletters, newspaper clippings, and other papers relating chiefly to Kleiman's service with the United States Office of War Information during World War II and pertaining to psychological warfare and the use of propaganda in the Far East, with a much smaller portion reflecting his work as a journalist before and after the war.
United States Army officer and Chief of Staff of the Army during and after World War I. Correspondence, reports, military training manuals, book and article drafts, lectures and speeches, notebooks, news clippings, printed matter, scrapbooks, and other papers relating to March's military career.
Miscellaneous copies of documents, mostly photostats, relating to the creation of the Declaration of Independence and its Virginia antecedents.
Astronomer and director of the United States Naval Observatory. Correspondence, speeches and writings, subject files, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to Strand's research and career.
Louis Nizer, lawyer and author. Pencil and typewritten draft copies of his My Life in Court.
Army officer. Correpondence, military papers, writings, photographs, awards, certificates, maps, printed matter, digital files, and other papers relating to Johnston's military career, particularly his service with the 92nd Infantry Division during World War II.
Poet. Correspondence, poems, notebooks, photographs, articles, legal papers, and other miscellany documenting Porter's life and career as a poet.
Psychoanalyst and author. Journals, correspondence, drafts of writings, notebooks, legal records, obituaries, genealogical notes, photographs, watercolor drawings, and printed matter relating to Bonaparte's involvement in the field of psychoanalysis.
First literary periodical in the United States. Correspondence between contributors to the North American Review and its editors.
Family members include Columbus Delano, U.S. secretary of the interior and representative from Ohio, and his son, John Sherman Delano, businessman. Correspondence, financial records, photograph album, and miscellany relating to Ohio and national politics and patronage, the Republican Party, western lands, railroad expansion, and personal and financial matters.
Lawyer, editor, and diplomat. Correspondence, writings, reminiscences, biographical material, clippings, passports, and photographs relating chiefly to Dickinson's activities as an American diplomatic representative in Bulgaria and Turkey, 1897-1908.
Civil rights leader, entrepreneur, and minister. Correspondence, speeches, subject files, clippings, printed material, awards, and other papers relating chiefly to Sullivan’s work with the International Foundation for Education and Self Help.
Nonprofit elections research and analysis organization. Newspaper clippings, ballots, election returns, reports, notes, statistical data, correspondence, and printed material documents elections in all fifty states and the District of Columbia collected by the organization between 1955 and 1992 for the purpose of compilation, analysis, and publication.
Merchant and army officer. Correspondence, speeches, circulars, clippings, and other printed matter. Includes material relating to banking, insurance, public finance, railroads, the Civil War and Reconstruction, local history of South Carolina and New York, and Lathers's social, philanthropic, and religious activities.
Governor of Barbados. Bound materials relating to Pinfold's governorship of Barbados, 1756-1766, including minutes of the proceedings of the president and council of Barbados, transcripts of the island's general assembly, letterbooks, royal orders and instructions, and printed acts of the assembly.
Naval officer. Correspondence, letterbook, and journal relating chiefly to Ridgely's naval career, especially his commands of the USS Erie (Sloop of war) during the War of 1812 and of the USS Constellation (Frigate) in the U.S. Navy Pacific Squadron. Subjects include the Latin American policy of the U.S. Navy, the wars of independence in Chile and Peru, and Ridgely's attitude toward Spain and Latin American revolutionaries.
Naval officer. Correspondence, orders, and other papers covering primarily the period of Saunders's command of the USS St. Mary's, 1844-1847 and relating to the Mexican War.
Architect. Correspondence, planning files, biographical material, maps, blueprints, drawings, proposals, minutes, reports, scrapbooks, press releases, clippings, invitations, brochures, interviews, appointment calendars, travel records, certificates, awards, and photographs related to architectural activities, urban planning, and professional associations of I. M. Pei.
Correspondence, memoranda, oral history interviews, government documents, reports, notes, books, subject files, a scrapbook, photographs, newspaper clippings, printed matter, digital files, and other material documenting the World War II participation of African American soldiers of the 92nd and 93rd Infantry Divisions of the United States Army.
Jungian analyst. Writings, lectures, correspondence, notes, photographs, military records, slides, digital files, printed matter, and other papers pertaining to Edinger's career as a Jungian analyst.
Journalist and diplomat. Personal and professional correspondence, writings, staff files, subject files, and other papers relating to Grunwald's career as a diplomat, author, and editor of Time, inc.
Correspondence, lecture files, writings, reviews, wire service reports, notes, book files, alphabetical files, research files, maps, prints, photographs, digital files, and other papers pertaining chiefly to Sullivan’s career as a journalist for the New York Times. Documents his years as a correspondent in China and Antarctica, and his work as a science writer and editor.
Political activist and diplomat. Family papers, correspondence, memoranda, reports, agenda, minutes, programs, briefing binders, political polls, lists, research files, Federal Election Commission filings, financial and legal records, speeches and writings, interview and event transcripts, diary excerpts, biographical material, awards, publicity material, engagement calendars, scheduling and event files, travel files, digital files, address books, guest books, passports, marriage certificates, photographs, news clippings, and other printed matter documenting most phases of Harriman’s adult life including her marriages to Randolph S. Churchill, 1939-1946; Leland Hayward, 1960-1971; and W. Averell Harriman, 1971-1986; as well as her roles as founder and chair of the Democrats for the 80's from 1980 to 1990 and as United States ambassador to France from 1993 to 1997.
Author, political consultant, former president of the Heritage Foundation. Correspondence, diaries, appointment books, daily schedules, notebooks, clippings, chronological files, biographical material, family papers, speech and travel files, itineraries, meeting files, financial records, legal records, memoranda, organization files, meeting minutes, reports, subject files, memorabilia, photographs, writings, notes, and other papers relating to Feulner's career devoted to conservative public policy and the rise of the Heritage Foundation as the leading conservative think tank and public policy research organization during Feulner's presidency.
Psychoanalyst and author. Correspondence, interviews, family papers, handwritten and some typed drafts of books and other writings, reprints of journal articles, notes, research files, certificates, publishing contracts, royalty statements, reviews of Reik's books, publicity materials, photographs, honors and a tribute, brochures, programs, postcards, and news clippings documenting Reik's contributions to psychoanalytic theory and practice, largely through his prolific writing for professional and popular audiences.
Political party composed of environmentalist and liberal groups. Correspondence, meeting notes, local chapter records, financial records, membership directories, newsletters, newspaper clippings, and printed matter pertaining to the organization of the Citizens Party, the formation of its platform, and its early campaign efforts.
Sociologist and political theorist. Correspondence, writings, speeches, subject file, teaching material, notes and notebooks, projects file, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other papers documenting Lipset's career as a sociologist and political theorist and his body of work.
United States Navy officer and author. Notebooks, correspondence, memoranda, lectures, articles, book drafts, short stories, play drafts, radio scripts, patents, military files, newspaper clippings, digital files, and other material relating to Ellsberg's service as an engineer and naval salvage expert. Also included are drafts and research files relating to John Doughty Alden's book entitled Salvage Man: Edward Ellsberg and the U.S. Navy.
Political scientist and author. Interviews, surveys, research material, digital video files, correspondence, memoranda, and other material relating to Hess's professional life, including his work as a Brookings Institution fellow and George Washington University faculty member, as well as his tenure as Richard M. Nixon's Deputy Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs.
Pulitzer Prize winning poet and author. Correspondence, working drafts of various poems and writings, administrative material regarding publishing and publications, reviews, translations, interviews, memorabilia, and subject files related to Simpson's career as an author and professor.
Union army officer, lawyer, and United States representative from Illinois. Correspondence and miscellany relating primarily to Hill's military service and family.
American Red Cross official. Correspondence, newspaper clippings, awards, photographs, and publications relating to Swift's career with the Red Cross from 1920 to 1941, as well as his personal and family life.
Biweekly, general interest popular magazine published in Des Moines, Iowa, from March 1937 to October 1971. Drafts, correspondence, notes and field notes, interoffice memos, reference materials, clippings, and other papers documenting Look's writing, editorial, and research processes.
Lawyer, assistant attorney general for the United States Department of Justice Civil Division, and acting director of the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Correspondence, memoranda, notes, writings, speeches, testimony, legal records, military records, photographs, printed matter, and other papers relating chiefly to Gray's time as acting director of the FBI during the Richard M. Nixon presidential administration and the impact of this period on his life in the following years. Topics include the investigation of the Watergate Affair, other FBI actions in 1972 and 1973, and changes in that institution following the death of J. Edgar Hoover.
Humorist, political commentator, and playwright. Correspondence, columns, book manuscripts, speeches, plays, screenplays, biographical material, photographs, audiovisual material, digital files, posters, memorabilia, drawings, appointment calendars, address books, artifacts, copyright registration and renewals, legal documents, financial records, and clippings documenting Buchwald's career as a columnist and his personal life.
Army officer, federal agency head, university president, public school superintendent. Correspondence, speeches, writings, military and civilian government documents, topical files, reports, printed matter, monographs, and miscellaneous material documenting Becton's army career, leadership of federal agencies, college presidency, and superintendency of a large, urban public school system.
United States representative and lawyer. Correspondence, a speech, and a printing plate relating chiefly to Marchand's two terms in the United States House of Representatives and life in Washington, D.C.
Baptist minister. Correspondence and associated miscellany, photographs, and ephemera primarily addressed to Pyle from American Colony in Jerusalem members Jacob E. Spafford and G. Eric Matson.
Vice president of the United States, U.S. secretary of state and secretary of war, and U.S. senator from South Carolina. Chiefly correspondence, a manuscript of Calhoun's last senate speech, and other papers relating to his career in government.
Architectural drawings, surveys, correspondence, subject files, and related research material used to compile an architectural catalog.
Comedy writer and political speechwriter. Correspondence, jokes and other writings, business papers, photographs, printed matter, interviews, and speeches in both physical and digital formats pertaining to Orben's work as a comedy writer and humor consultant for entertainers, public figures, and corporate clients, editor of a topical humor service, writer for television, and speechwriter for President Gerald R. Ford.
Electrical engineer and educator. Correspondence, book drafts, articles, reports, printed matter, and notes in both physical and digital formats relating to Casazza's career in the electric power industry. Materials in physical formats also include photographs and clippings. 
Physical chemists. Writings, speeches, correspondence, research data, subject files, photographs, notes, and miscellaneous textual materials in both physical and digital formats primarily relating to the Karles’ careers at the Naval Research Laboratory and their contributions to the field of crystallography.
Photographer and railroad enthusiast (railfan). Correspondence, railroad and trolley tickets and ticket books, railroad dining car menus, ephemera, and other material documenting mid-twentieth century rail travel, the operations of railway historical societies, and railfan subculture in the United States.
Republican pollster and political consultant. Correspondence, polls, clippings, memoranda, travel books, calendars, and other papers relating to Finkelstein's career as a Republican consultant and campaign manager.
Correspondence, etiquette and protocol information cards, invitations, memorabilia, menu cards, photographs, programs, seating plans, tickets, and other ephemera relating to presidential inaugurations and presidents.
Public official, diplomat. Correspondence, writings, notes, professional files, and other papers of Thomas Lowe Hughes documenting his career as a close aide to Chester Bowles and Hubert Humphrey, his service in the Department of State as the director of the Bureau of Intelligence and Research (1963-1969), and his work as president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace (1971-1991).
Journalist, author, environmentalist, and animal welfare advocate. Writings, oral history transcripts, and photographs in both physical and digital formats. Material in physical format also include correspondence, notebooks, diaries, newspaper clippings, research files, and printed matter. All primarily relate to Free’s journalistic career after 1940.
United States Army and Air Force officer. Diaries, logbooks, and photographs documenting McNarney's service during and after World War II as deputy supreme allied commander, Mediterranean Theatre; commanding general of United States forces, European Theater; and United States military governor in the American-occupied zone in Germany.
United States Army medic. Correspondence, photographs, and ephemera primarily relating to Swillinger's service during the Allied occupation of Japan between 1946 and 1948.
Pioneer aviator and United States Army officer. Correspondence, memoranda, journals, notebooks, drafts and proofs of Henry Harley (Hap) Arnold's memoirs, Global Mission (1949), articles, speeches, reports, orders, printed material, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to the development of military aeronautics in the United States and to aeronautical policies and events of World War II.
Theatrical producer and director and playwright. Correspondence, family papers, business and financial papers, production files, writings, publicity material, clippings, scrapbooks, and other papers documenting Logan's career as producer, director, and author of theatrical, musical, and motion picture productions, chiefly from 1940 to 1980.
Lawyer, author, and manuscript collector. Correspondence, memoranda, family papers, legal files, subject files, speeches, writings, manuscripts collected by Gertz, newspaper clippings, and printed matter relating primarily to Gertz’s career as a lawyer.
Poet, playwright, government official, and Librarian of Congress. Papers include correspondence reflecting MacLeish's relations with friends, literary colleagues, and government associates; notebooks (1919-1940s) containing drafts of poetry and prose; manuscript drafts of plays and radio broadcasts, and speeches, including those written for Franklin D. Roosevelt, Edward R. Stettinius, and Harry S. Truman; and notes and manuscripts for classroom lectures on modern poetry given by MacLeish at Harvard University (1949-1962).
Physicist and director of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey. Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, lectures, writings, desk books, lectures, statements, scientific notes, and photographs chiefly comprising Oppenheimer's personal papers while director of the Institute for Advanced Study but reflecting only incidentally his administrative work there. Topics include theoretical physics, development of the atomic bomb, the relationship between government and science, nuclear energy, security, and national loyalty.
Lettercopy and letterpress books (1802-1880), daybooks (1800-1867), cashbooks (1829-1876), ledgers (1796-1878), and other business records of the firm founded by Alexander Brown in Baltimore, Md., circa 1800 which grew from a mercantile business into an international banking house.
Founded in 1890 by the merger of the National Woman Suffrage Association and the American Woman Suffrage Association. Records comprising correspondence, a subject file relating chiefly to state and local suffrage organizations and leaders in the movement, scrapbooks prepared by Ida Porter Boyer documenting activities in the women's rights movement (1893-1912), and miscellaneous printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, chronological and subject files, speeches and engagements file, personal file, scrapbooks, and other papers documenting Donald T. Regan's government service as U.S. secretary of the treasury and chief of White House staff during the presidency of Ronald Reagan.
Ken Lindsay (1923-2001) was a founding partner in the Challenge Jazz Club, the first sizable jazz club in London after World War II. As a jazz and folk enthusiast, Lindsay was connected with the jazz revival and folk movement of the 1950s in the United Kingdom, and made a career of promoting such musicians and organizing performances. Lindsay also worked for the International Bookshop where he oversaw the department that would import records from America and Europe and sell them by mail. This was the period during which he established a correspondence relationship with Woody Guthrie. Lindsay went on to work for other record shops and continued to manage bands, lecture on music at universities, and write articles for such music publications asMelody Maker andMusic Mirror.
Woodrow Wilson "Woody" Guthrie (1912-1967) was a singer, songwriter, and social activist who influenced twentieth-century American music and culture. Having lived through the Great Depression, the Dust Bowl Migration, World War II, and the political upheavals that resulted in the labor union movement, Guthrie called upon these experiences as he expressed the plight of common people through his songs, prose, and poetry. He was a seminal figure in the folk music revival of the 1950s, and his songs and philosophy had a profound impact on society and on contemporary musicians such as Bob Dylan and Bruce Springsteen.
Mary Sheppard Burton was born in 1922 in Salisbury, Maryland. Burton, who became a textile artist and teacher, was no stranger to the art as a child since both her great grandmother and grandmother were rug hookers. From 1973 to 1988 Burton taught classes on designing, dyeing, color theory, hook art and traditional hooking techniques at various schools and colleges throughout the United States. Occasionally Burton also taught private classes at her home in Maryland. Her students were diverse, from ninth-grade students to adults as well as the mentally challenged. The individuals who studied under Burton were not only based in the United States but also came from England and Israel. During this period she lectured extensively and exhibited her pieces throughout the United States, Canada, and Japan. Burton was instrumental in developing the guidelines and standards for rug hooking and judging hooked rugs at local and international competitions.
In 1981, Burton’s dedication and love for the art led her to research the hand dyeing of textiles and the color retention of dyes by experimenting with vegetable dyes used by earlier generations. She experimented with the different effects that light has upon yarn. Burton used dyeing techniques that were not commonly used by textile artists. Burton studied the historical origins of rug hooking, starting her research at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, continuing at the Textile Museum in Canada in 1996, and in Nova Scotia in 1997.
In 1994, Burton co-founded the International Guild of Hand-hooked Rug Makers (TIGHER) and in 1996 was awarded an antique pewter loving cup for outstanding devotion and service to the organization.
For her outstanding accomplishments in the art, Mary Sheppard Burton has received many awards. She was the first non-Canadian recipient of two of the highest awards given by the Ontario Hooking Craft Guild: Best in Show for Creativity and Craftsmanship and Best in Show for Artistic Presentation of Work and Originality.
In 2002, she co-authored a book on creativity in textile arts,A Passion for the Creative Life: Textiles to Lift the Spirit, with Mary Ellen Cooper. She died on July 1, 2010.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1979.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1980.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1982.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1989.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1991.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1992.
Documentation created and accessioned by the American Folklife Center in 1994.
Paula Morin is a photographer and oral historian specializing in the photography of wild horses of the Great Basin region of the American West. For more than a decade, she has studied wild horses and conducted interviews about the horses' impact on the ecology and cultural landscape of Nevada.
Born in Hollywood, California, and raised in San Francisco, Morin’s admiration for horses was first inspired by her father, who was raised in Montana. They attended many horse races and polo matches during her childhood. Morin graduated magna cum laude from Southern Oregon University and later pursued post-graduate studies in photographic history and cultural anthropology. She became an independent photographer and field researcher and pursued an interest in the nineteenth-century technique of hand-painted black-and-white photography.
In 1999, Morin received a Rural Community Arts Assistance Grant from the National Endowment for the Arts and the U.S. Forest Service which resulted in the exhibition Honest Horses: A Portrait of the Mustang in Nevada's Great Basin, supported by the Nevada Arts Council.
In the summer of 1979, the American Folklife Center of the Library of Congress conducted a field research survey to document traditional folklife in Montana. The survey was undertaken in cooperation with the Montana Arts Council. The survey team was led by Barre Toelken, and included folklorists Kay Young, Gary Stanton, Paula Johnson, photographer Michael Crummett, and photographer Tom McBride, George Wasson, Miiko Toelken, and Carl Fleischhauer and was conducted from June 28, 1979 to September 15, 1979.
Oneyda Alvarenga (1911-1984) was a Brazilian journalist, poet, and ethnomusicologist. She attended the Music and Drama Conservatory of São Paulo and was a student of Mário de Andrade and Dinah and Claude Levi-Strauss. In 1935 she became the director of the Discoteca Pública de São Paulo and was a founding member of the Sociedade de Etnografia e Folclore.
1903 Born Sidney William Hawkins in San Francisco, California on June 02
1924 B.A., Romance Languages, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California Married Kenneth Robertson (divorced 1933)
1935 Henry Street Settlement
1936 Music assistant to Charles Seeger, KL Division, Music Unit, Special Skills Division, Resettlement Administration (RA).
Accompanied Frank C. Brown and John A. Lomax on recording trip to western North Carolina where she received training in using a portable sound recording machine and assisted in recording Anglo American melismatic singing and African American singing in chain gang camps for the RA.
Travelled on her own to collect traditional English-language music in Arkansas, Maryland, Missouri, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia for the RA.
1937 Regional representative, Special Skills Division, Resettlement Administration.
Collected recordings in Minnesota and northern Wisconsin (including Warde Ford and his extended family, many of whom moved to California to work in the CCC camps at the Shasta Dam where they were recorded by Robertson for this WPA collection).
Community relief community manager, Special Skills Division, Resettlement Administration.
Recorded Finnish, Serbian, and Gaelic performers; recorded Swedish, Lithuanian, Norwegian, and Finnish performers at the 4th National Folk Festival held in Chicago, recorded lumberjacks in Michigan.
Late 1937 Traveled to Washington, D.C. and California to explore plans for developing and funding folk song collecting projects through New Deal arts organizations and private grants organizations.
Began to do folk music research in her native California.
Early 1938 Received endorsement from the Music Division at the Library of Congress and 200 blank acetate discs for recording folk music in California, under the provision that the Library's Archive of American Folk Song receive copies of the original field recordings she made.
She also received approval from the Department of Music at the University of California, Berkeley, for co-sponsorship for their support in providing office space.
Late 1938 Through the sponsorship of the Library of Congress and the University of California, Berkeley, Robertson was able to apply for and receive WPA (Work Projects Administration) approval for her California Folk Music Project through the Berkeley office of the Northern District of the WPA in California. As such, she received help from twenty persons on the labor relief rolls.
The CFMP opened officially on October 28, 1938.
1940 The CFMP was brought to a close, due to a lack of the renewal of WPA funds, which were intended to allow for the collection of Asian and Middle Eastern folk music in California during an additional two years. During this year, she compiled and publishedThe Gold Rush Song Book with Eleanora Black.
1941 Married Henry Cowell and began to use her married name, Sidney Robertson Cowell.
1942 PublishedThe Bibliography of American Folk-Song and Folklore with Alan Lomax.
1950 With Maud Karpeles, traveled during the fall to seek out and re-record singers and their families who had performed for Cecil Sharp in Appalachia in 1916-1917.
1953 Recorded American Folk Music Concert, Columbia University, at the 6th Annual Festival of Contemporary American Music; bagpipe tunes and Scottish Gaelic singing on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia; Spanish and Persian singing in Alameda and Berkeley, California; and the Shady [New York] Methodist Church Choir.
1955-56 Traveled for fourteen months to Europe and Asia, recording in the Aran Islands, Ireland in June 1955, and again in June 1956. Included travel to record traditional music in Iran, Thailand, Pakistan, and Malaysia.
1995 Died February 23 at her home in Shady, New York.
The California Folk Music Project (1938-1940) was the result of a joint effort of the Northern California Work Projects Administration, the Library of Congress, and the Department of Music at the University of California, Berkeley. The project was officially sponsored by the University of California at Berkeley and co-sponsored by the Library of Congress. The New Music Society and the Society of California Pioneers offered their support and encouragement for the collecting project. The effort also received some funding from the California State Relief Agency.
Prior to the California Folk Music Project, during 1936 and the early part of 1937, Sidney Robertson had collected traditional English- and foreign-language music for the Special Skills Division (KL) of the Resettlement Administration (RA). When the Resettlement Administration was liquidated late in 1937, and with it, Robertson's source of funds for recording, she looked for means to continue and expand the scope of her folk music collecting in her native California under the auspices of the WPA.
Robertson was eager to organize and conduct ethnographic and folk musical research on a nationwide basis in order to engage in more comprehensive field collecting than was being done at the time. She discussed her plans with Luther Evans, then Librarian of Congress and an old friend from Stanford University, who suggested that the WPA in California might be willing to fund her project. The WPA contacts Robertson made through Evans became convinced that such an undertaking might best be initiated on a state-by-state basis. Robertson was promised WPA funding for a prototype of her collecting plan in any single state, providing she could get the necessary 50% contribution for the equipment, supplies, and rent required for government projects of this kind. With such support, she was expected to devise work that could keep from twenty to forty people employed from the work relief rolls and also be acceptable to at least three sponsors. Robertson chose to pursue the project in California, where she sought sponsorship for it through the University of California at Berkeley late in 1937.
It was in the Department of Music at the University of California, Berkeley, under the chairmanship of Albert Elkus, that Robertson found a willing sponsor for her folk music collecting plans in California. With Elkus' help, Robertson's project received university support for space and equipment. And, because she conceived her collecting project as being of relevance to the fields of anthropology, history, sociology, literature, and ethnology, Robertson made contacts with interested faculty members in a variety of university departments, who offered her their support. With the University of California as an official sponsor, Robertson was then eligible to apply for WPA funds to hire personnel to assist her in the task of collecting and documenting traditional music in northern California.
Once WPA sponsorship of the project was established, the Archive of American Folk Song at the Library of Congress, then under the Music Division's leadership of Harold Spivacke, agreed to co-sponsor it by providing 12-inch acetate discs for recording the music and offering cataloging assistance to organize the collection. For additional non-labor items, which the WPA did not cover, such as catalog cards and travel expenses, the project received financial support from the California State Relief Agency. In addition to the backing of official project sponsors, Robertson sought assistance and support for it from other academic sources. As an advisor on ethnographic standards for conducting fieldwork, the anthropologist Paul Radin offered guidelines that could be applied to the collecting of folk music. From George Herzog, Columbia University ethnomusicologist, Robertson received suggestions on techniques for the melodic analysis of folk music. Through Herzog's support, she developed a project that accorded importance, not only to preserving the texts of folk songs, but also to collecting traditional melodies and their variants so that they could later be analyzed musicologically. A duplicate set of recordings on disc were given to the University of California, Berkeley, for the purpose of establishing the Archive of California Folk Music in 1940.
Although the Archive of California Folk Music was never established, the recordings became part of the Music Library of the University of California, Berkeley and in the early 1980s, they were put on permanent deposit in the Stanford University Archives of Recorded Sound. The Music Library at the University of California, Berkeley, also retained copies of administrative documents, English translations on folk music, material on music in the California missions, lists of California songsters and hymnals, song texts with references to California, material on Portuguese, Spanish and Latin American folk songs, and sketches, scale drawings, and tracings of folk instruments.
George Korson, folklorist, journalist, and labor historian, was born in 1899 in Ukraine, and came with his family to the U.S. in 1906. He began his working life as a journalist, and subsequently wrote several books on the songs and folklore of coal miners in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Korson was an advocate for the rights of miners and improved working conditions for them. In 1957 he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship to write the book Black Rock. He was a president of the American Red Cross, served three terms as president of the Pennsylvania Folklore Society, and was elected a Fellow of the American Folklore Society in 1960. He died in 1967.
Bess Lomax Hawes (1921-2009) was a folklorist, teacher, musician, writer, filmmaker, and folk arts administrator. Named for her mother, Bess Brown Lomax, Jr. was exposed at a young age to folk music performance and fieldwork through her father, John A. Lomax, and brother, Alan Lomax. As a teenager she transcribed music from field recording sessions, and provided assistance to her father, brother Alan, and composer Ruth Crawford Seeger during their work on Our Singing Country (1941), a collection of American folk songs and ballads. After graduating from Bryn Mawr College in 1941, she moved to New York City, where she performed with the Almanac Singers, including Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie, her future husband, artist Butch Hawes, and others. She moved with her husband to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where she taught guitar lessons, wrote music and cared for her young children.
In 1952, Hawes moved with her family to California, where she taught guitar and courses in folklore and anthropology at San Fernando Valley State College (now California State University, Northridge). As professor, she wrote a number of academic papers and was an active participant in the California Folklore Society, which she served as president from 1971-1973. While on the faculty at San Fernando Valley State, Hawes completed her M.A. in Folklore from the University of California, Berkeley, studying under folklorist Alan Dundes. She made four films while working in California: Georgia Sea Island Singers (1964), Buckdancer (1965), Pizza Pizza Daddy-O (1967) and Say Old Man, Can You Play the Fiddle (1970).
In 1977, Hawes moved to Washington, D.C. to serve as head of the Folk Arts Program at the National Endowment for the Arts, and stayed on for a fifteen-year tenure. At NEA she raised the public profile of the folk arts, establishing apprenticeship and other grant programs to support folk artists with skills as varied as music and dance, basketmaking, and pottery. A crowning achievement at the NEA was the establishment of the National Heritage Fellowship program to honor folk artists for lifetime achievement and contributions to traditional arts in the United States. Hawes traveled widely for her work at NEA, both nationally and internationally. She wrote several books: Step It Down (1972), co-authored with Bessie Jones; Brown Girl in the Ring (1997), co-authored with Alan Lomax and J.D. Elder; and Sing It Pretty (2008), a memoir. In 1993 Hawes received the National Medal of Arts from president Bill Clinton.
Lena Spencer (born Pasqualina Rosa Nargi, on January 4, 1923) owned and operated Caffè Lena from its inception in 1960 until her untimely death in 1989. Before she co-founded Caffè Lena in 1960 with her then-husband Bill Spencer, she gained experience that would bear fruit during her long years at Caffè Lena as both owner and jack of all trades: she waited tables at her father's Italian restaurant, performed with an amateur theater group, and worked at a radio station. Over the years she built a reputation for the Caffè as the place for serious folk artists to play. The Caffè had a loyal following over the years, who periodically helped raise funds to keep the business open. Despite her passing, the Caffè has continued to be a destination venue for folk music artists and fans of folk music: "good folk since 1960."
Thomas Bird Hoskins, known as "Tom" in general and as "Fang" to his friends, was a musician and blues music fan who teamed with Dick Spottswood to locate Mississippi John Hurt in March 1963. They had heard Hurt's 1928 recordings and, based on a clue from the song "Avalon blues" ("Avalon's my hometown, always on my mind"), Hoskins went to Mississippi and located Hurt in Avalon, which began the second phase of Hurt's career in music. Hoskins managed Hurt for a time, and stayed in contact with the family after Hurt died. Over the years, legal issues regarding contracts and royalties arose, the last of which was resolved after Hoskins died in 2002, age 60, in Tallahassee, Florida.
Born in Dallas, Texas in 1936, Sol Biderman has taught literature at universities in California; Genoa and Naples, Italy; and São Paulo, Brazil. He is the author of Bring Me to the Banqueting House and the plays When Elvis Met Che in Denver, To Kill a Mandarin, and Unabomber Hotel.
Biderman's interest in the cordel tradition dates to his tenure at the Faculdade de Filosofia de Marilia in São Paulo, Brazil in the 1960s, when he first began to collect chapbooks and meet the cordelistas who wrote them. In 1970, he donated a substantial portion of his chapbook collection to the Library of Congress (AFC 1970/002), which has continued to acquire literatura de cordel through the Library of Congress Office in Rio.
Dr. Maggie Holtzberg received her PhD in folklore and folklife from the University of Pennsylvania in 1987. Prior to that she gained a BA in ethnomusicology from Wesleyan University (1979). She was also a student of the traveling Trailside Country School from 1972-1973. She has written and published multiple books, including Keepers of Tradition: Art and Folk Heritage in Massachusetts (2008), The Lost World of the Craft Printer (1992), and Portrait of Spirit: One Story at a Time (1996). She has also produced and directed documentaries, recordings, and public events, including the film Gandy Dancers (1994) and the exhibition Keepers of Tradition: Art and Folk Heritage (2008). In addition to serving on and leading state, national, and regional art and folklore councils and agencies, Holtzberg has managed and directed folklife programs in both Massachusetts and Georgia.
The Cooperative Recreation Service was formed as a publishing and distribution center for kits, songbooks, and pamphlets of folk games and songs from the United States and around the world by Lynn Rohrbough and his wife Katherine Ferris Rohrbough in the late 1920s. The Rorhboughs first collected songs and dances while traveling as recreation leaders in churches throughout North America in the 1930s. The publications were sold and distributed to youth agencies and church groups in the United States and internationally.
David Bromberg was born on September 19, 1945, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and raised in Tarrytown, New York. He is a multi-instrumentalist, singer, and songwriter, and has collaborated with a a variety of musicians, including John Hartford, Willie Nelson, and Jerry Jeff Walker. Though he is known for the fingerpicking blues style he learned while studying under Reverend Gary Davis, Bromberg's music covers various American styles, such as bluegrass, country, jazz, and rock and roll. During a hiatus from his musical performance career, Bromberg became a violin expert, ultimately building an extensive collection of American-built violins and opening a violin sales and repair shop in Wilmington, Delaware, with his wife, Nancy Josephson.
Joseph Charles Mele was born in Hammond, Louisiana. He was a graduate of Louisiana State University, where he received a doctorate focusing on communication arts. During his career, he held positions at Louisiana State University, University of Alabama, University of Louisiana-Lafayette, and University of South Alabama where he spent 27 years as professor of speech, speech pathology, audiology, and drama. He died January 12, 2018, in Mobile, Alabama, at the age of 85.
Barbara Dane was born May 12, 1927, and raised in Detroit, Michigan. She is a folk, blues, and jazz singer, and co-founder of Paredon Records with her husband Irwin Silber. Paredon published songs, poetry, and oratory related to social and political activism. Throughout her life, Dane sang at demonstrations in Washington, D.C., and in small towns all over the U.S. and the world. During the 1950s and 60s, she performed and recorded with many great musicians from Earl Hines to Willie Dixon. She appeared on national TV’s Timex Jazz Show with Louis Armstrong. In 1966, Dane became the first American musician to tour post-revolutionary Cuba. In February 2018, the Smithsonian Folkways released a 2-CD retrospective, Hot Jazz, Cool Blues and Hard-Hitting Songs along with her historic folkways LP, Barbara Dane and the Chambers Brothers. On her 85th birthday, The Boston Globe music critic James Reed called her "one of the true unsung heroes of American music."
Gwilym Davies (born 1946) is a collector of folk songs from Hampshire, England. He has recorded folk music in Hampshire, Gloucestershire, Devon, the United States and elsewhere and has deposited recordings with the British Library Sound Archive and the Library of Congress.
Pete Welding (1935-1995), an authority on blues and jazz music, worked as a writer and music producer, and was a life-long advocate for traditional blues and avant-garde jazz performers. He wrote regularly for Down Beat magazine, wrote liner notes for albums (including releases by Frank Sinatra, Memphis Slim, Nat King Cole, Ian & Sylvia, and the Paul Butterfield Blues Band), and edited books on jazz and blues music. His research for his writings involved interviews of notable figures across music genres, including Signifyin' Mary Johnson, John Lee Hooker, Pete Robinson, Howlin' Wolf, Judy Collins, Thomas A. Dorsey, and others. He founded Testament Records in 1963 as a platform for African American folk, blues, and gospel performers, and produced records by Quicksilver Messenger Service, Big Joe Williams, and Jean-Luc Ponty, to name a few. Twice nominated for a Grammy Award (1973 and 1993), he was posthumously inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame (1996) in the category known (at that time) as Business-Production: Media or Academic. His works continue to be widely-cited resources for music researchers.
The Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program, a division of the Nevada Department of Tourism and Cultural Affairs, was founded in 1985. The organization administers grants, produces exhibits and publications, and initiates documentation projects that focus on the many forms of individual, organizational, and community folklife across the state of Nevada. The Nevada Folklife Archive existed as a repository for the fieldwork conducted by folklorists and contractors employed by the agency beginning in 1985. Folklorists employed by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program include Andrea Graham, Russell Frank, Blanton Owen, Eliza Buck, Jeanne Harrah Johnson, Anne F. Hatch, Michael Luster, Lesley Williams, Nicholas Curchin Vrooman, Tamara Layman, Debbie Nolan, Penny Rucks, and Christina Barr, among others.
The Collector
Linguist and folklorist Juan Bautista Rael, highly regarded for his pioneering work in collecting and documenting the Hispano folk stories, plays, and religious traditions of northern New Mexico and southern Colorado, was born on August 14, 1900, in Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico. His bachelor's degree, from St. Mary's College in Oakland in 1923, led to a master's degree from the University of California at Berkeley in 1927. After deciding on a university career of teaching and research, Rael relinquished his family inheritance in land, cattle, and sheep to his three brothers and his sister. He had realized that the wealth in northern New Mexico that most interested him was the vast repertory of folk narrative, song, and custom that had scarcely been documented.
While teaching at the University of Oregon, Rael returned to Arroyo Hondo in the summer of 1930 to begin compiling his famous collection of over five hundred New Mexican folk tales. By then his work had attracted the attention of pioneer Hispano folklorist and mentor Aurelio Espinosa, who invited Rael to Stanford in 1933. Rael completed his doctoral studies in 1937 with a dissertation on the phonology and morphology of New Mexico Spanish that amplified the dialectological work of Espinosa with the huge corpus of folk tales, later published as Cuentos Españoles de Colorado y Nuevo Mexico: Spanish Folk Tales of Colorado and New Mexico.
Well-versed in the historic-geographic theory of transmission and diffusion of motifs, tale types, and genres, Rael set out on the formidable, almost quixotic task of gathering all the possible versions and texts of the tales, hymns, and plays he was studying. The vast majority of tales are of European provenance, with only minimal local references. He meticulously traced the shepherds' plays to several root sources in Mexico, and his study The Sources and Diffusion of the Mexican Shepherds' Plays is a standard reference on the subject. His ground-breaking study of thealabado hymn, The New Mexican Alabado, is also a prime resource. Inevitably the text-centered historic-geographic approach led more to collection building than to analysis. It has been left to later generations of scholars to develop performance-centered studies, but the collections of Juan B. Rael continue to be an indispensable landmark in the field.
Note: This biography was excerpted from an essay by Enrique R. Lamadrid. For further information on the collector and the collection, see the framing essays written by Lamadrid to accompany the online presentation Hispano Music and Culture of the Northern Rio Grande: The Juan B. Rael Collection. See Folder 16 below.
In January 1893 the French journalist and balloonist Georges Besançon (1866-1934), in collaboration with the Union Aérophile de France, began publishing a monthly illustrated revue , L'Aerophile (published 1893-1947). Quickly, L'Aerophile became one of the premier journals of the early history of aviation. The first years were devoted to balloonists and the importance of meteorology on ballooning (for example, atmospheric effects on equipment, instruments, and humans). In later years, as artificial wings, gliders, man- and engine-powered planes were developed, the magazine brought their stories to the public. The materials in the collection were evidently assembled by staff of the magazine L’Aerophile.
Herold J. Wiens was born in Shanghang, Fukien Province (China) on Dec. 26, 1912. His ancestors were Mennonites from the Netherlands. Mennonite migration brought the Wiens family to Russia, to the United States and then to China in 1910.
Herold Wiens was educated and lived in China until he was fourteen years old at which time his family moved to Reedley, California. During his formative years in China, Wiens developed a knowledge of Chinese culture, and became fluent in Mandarin Chinese and the Hakka dialect. He attended Reedley High School where he graduated in 1931. He received his undergraduate college education at the University of California (Berkeley).
In 1936, Wiens returned to China for advanced study and research at Yenching University in Beijing. There he studied with several of most noted China specialists from the United States. Before returning to the United States in 1940, Wiens worked at the U.S. Embassy in Hankou and Chungking for two years. During World War II he worked in the American Embassy in Chongqing, returning to the United States in 1946. His war-time correspondence and reports gave vivid accounts of the bombing and devastation in war-time China.
Wiens began graduate school in 1946 at the University of Michigan and completed M.A. and Ph.D. programs, graduating in 1949. His celebrated academic career included a nineteen year tenure at Yale University, three years at the University of Hawaii, and one year at Northern Illinois University in DeKalb. He was awarded Fulbright Fellowships twice, once in 1961 and again in 1964, and he was a recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship. He was one of the most accomplished China geographers of his generation and he educated many young scholars at the three universities where he taught. Professor Wiens died on September 15, 1971.
Herold Wiens’ biography can be found in Adina Wiens Robinson, China Beckoning (Oakland, Calif. : Positive Press, 1991); and Hao-jan Chu, “Biography of Herold J. Wiens,” in BiographicalLiterature, 19:6 (December, 1971), Taipei, Taiwan.
Publications
Asia with focus on China / by Herold J. Wiens and Margaret Fisher Hertel. -- Grand Rapids : Fideler Co., [1964] 260 p. : ill., maps (part col.), ports, ; 25 cm. -- (Depth-study textbooks) Bibliography: p. 248.
Atoll environment and ecology. New Haven, Yale University Press : 1962. xxii, 532 p. illus., maps, charts. 24 cm. (SIM report ; no. 27) Bibliography: p. 485-504.
China.-- Grand Rapids, Fideler : [1962] 192 p. illus., maps. 28 cm. (Life in other lands)
China [by] Herold J. Wiens. -- Grand Rapids : Fideler Co., 1965. 192 p. illus., maps. 28 cm. Summary: A textbook for the upper elementary grades. Describes the land, people, and life of Communist China, a country of nearly eight hundred million inhabitants.
China.--Grand Rapids, Fideler Co. : 1966. 160 p. ill., maps. –(Life in other lands)
China [by] Herold J. Wiens. Grand Rapids, Fideler Co. : [1967] 192 p. illus., maps. 28 cm.
China. Kit.-- Grand Rapids, Mich. : Fideler Visual Teaching, c1970. 45 social studies pictures and visual teaching text. (A social studies picture program)
[China's march into the tropics] China's march toward the tropics; a discussion of the southward penetration of China's culture, peoples, and political control in relation to the non-Han-Chinese peoples of south China and in the perspective ofhistorical and cultural geography, by Herold J. Wiens. Hamden, Conn., Shoe String Press : [1954]. xv, 441 p. : illus., maps. 23 cm. First published in 1952 under title: China's march into the tropics. "Bibliographical references": p. [373]-389. "Bibliographical references in Chinese language": p. [391]-393.
China's march into the tropics; a discussion of the southward penetration of China's culture, peoples, and political control in relation to the non-Han-Chinese peoples of South China and in the perspective of historical and cultural geography. Prepared under the auspices of the Office of Naval Research, United States Navy, Washington, 1952. iii, 221 p. ill., maps. 28 cm. Includes bibliographies.
[China's march into the tropics] Han Chineseexpansion in South China, by Herold J. Wiens. [Hamden, Conn.] : Shoe String Press, 1967 [c1954] xv, 441 p. illus., maps. 22 cm. "Originally published under the title: China's march toward the tropics"--T.p. verso.
China's march into the tropics [microform] : a discussion of the southward penetration of China's culture, peoples, and political control in relation to the non-Han-Chinese peoples of South China and in the perspective of historical and cultural geography / Prepared under the auspices of the Office of Naval Research, United States Navy, by Herold J. Wiens. Washington, D.C. : U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Office of Technical Services, 1952. iii, 221 p., 34 leaves of plates : maps. Bibliography: p. 217-219. Microfilm. Washington, D.C. : Library of Congress, Photoduplication Service, 1954. 1 microfilm reel ; 35 mm. Low reduction.
China's march toward the tropics; a discussion of the southward penetration of China's culture, peoples, and political control in relation to the non-Han- Chinese peoples of south China and in the perspective of historical and cultural geography. Hamden, Conn. : Shoe String Press [1954]. xv, 441 p. : illus., maps. 23 cm. First published in 1952 under title: China's march into the tropics. "Bibliographical references": p. [373]-389. "Bibliographical references in Chinese language": p. [391]-393.
China's march toward the tropics : a discussion of the southward penetration of China's culture, peoples, and political control in relation to the non-Han- Chinese peoples of south China and in the perspective of historical and cultural geography / by Herold J. Wiens. Hamden, Conn. : Shoe String Press, c1954. xv, 441 p. : ill., maps. ; 23 cm. First published in 1952 under title: China's march into the tropics. Includes bibliographical references and index.
Field notes on atolls visited in the Marshalls, 1956 / by Herold J. Wiens. Washington, D.C. : Pacific Science Board, National Academy of Sciences-- National Research Council, 1957. 23 p. ; 28 cm. (Atoll research bulletin ; no. 54)
The geography of Kapingamarangi atoll in the easternCarolines. New Haven, Conn. : Yale University, 1955. ii, 86 [8] p. illus., maps (part fold.) (Scientific Investigations in Micronesia. Report, no. 21) Bibliography: p.[94]
The geographical environment of the Narragansett Bay Region / Herold J. Wiens. 1953. 25 leaves : ill. ; 28 cm.–(Technical memorandum no. 16; (ESL:421:Serial 2)), 27 April 1953. Edwards Street Laboratory, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut." TM 16, NR-238-001. Contract Nonr-609(02)" Includes bibliographical references.
The geography of Kapingamarangi Atoll in the EasternCarolines. Washington, D.C. : National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council, Pacific science board, June 30, 1956. ii, [92] p. tables. 27 cm.–(Atoll research bulletin, no. 48)
The geography of Kapingamarangi atoll in the easternCarolines. New Haven, Conn. : Yale University, 1955. ii, 86 [8] p. ill., maps (part fold.)–(Scientific Investigations in Micronesia. Report, no. 21) Bibliography: p.[94]
Han Chinese expansion in South China, by Herold J. Wiens.--[Hamden, Conn.] : Shoe String Press, 1967 [c1954] xv, 441 p. ill., maps. 22 cm. Reprint of the 1954 ed. which was a revision of a work first published in 1952 under title: China's march into the tropics. Includes bibliographies.
Mongolia, by Herold J. Wiens. [Prepared with the co-operation of the American Geographical Society. Garden City, N.Y. : Doubleday, 1967] 63 p. ill. (part col.), col. maps, col. plates. 21 cm. (Around the world program)
Pacific island bastions of the United States. Princeton, N.J. : Van Nostrand, [1962] iv, 127 p. ill. 20 cm. (Van Nostrand searchlight books, #4)
Pacific island bastions of the United States / by Herold J. Wiens. Westport, Conn. : Greenwood Press, 1984, c1962. iv, 127 p. : maps ; 23 cm. Reprint. Originally published: Princeton, N.J. : Van Nostrand, c1962. Bibliography: p. 123-124. Includes index. ISBN 0313243883 (lib. bdg.)
Pacific island bastions of the United States. Princeton, N.J. : Van Nostrand [1962] 127 p. illus. (Van Nostrand searchlight books, #4)
The Shu Tao, or the road to Szechuan; a study of the development and significance of Shensi-Szechuan road communication in West China. 1948. 200 leaves, fold. map in pocket at back.-- Reproduced from typewritten copy. Thesis, University of Michigan. Bibliography: leaves 194-200.
The Shu Tao, or, The road to Szechuan [microform] : a study of the development of Sheni-Szechuan road communication in west China. -- Ann Arbor, MI : University Microfilms, 1948. Microfilm copy of typewritten ms. Made in 1948 by University Microflims (Publication no. 1122) Positive. Collation of the original: 200 leaves, ill., maps (part folded) 30 cm. Thesis--University of Michigan. Abstracted in Dissertation abstracts, v. 9 (1949) no. 1, p. 116-117. Bibliography: leaves 194-200.
Some effects of geographic location upon landutilization in the coral atolls of Micronesia / Herold J. Wiens.--[s.l. : s.n.], 1963. p. 157-162. 26 cm. Bibliography: p. 162.
Founded by Caleb Stillson Hammond in 1900, and formally incorporated in 1901, the company has been known over much of its history as C.S. Hammond & Co. Unlike most map publishing in the United States, which was centered in Chicago at the beginning of the twentieth century, C.S. Hammond began work in New York City, and the company has continued to maintain its headquarters in that area.
In the mid-1980s, Hammond led the industry in the development of a computer-assisted mapmaking system by creating a database that contained the latitude and longitude of all the geographic features on their maps. The proprietary database was further enhanced by patented methods for line-smoothing and name placement and culminated with the publication in 1992 of the first all-digital world atlas, "Hammond's Atlas of the World."
The company was privately owned by the Hammond family until its assets were acquired by Langenscheidt Publishers Inc. in 1999.
Cornelius Mahoney “Neil” Sheehan (1936-) is a journalist best known for his reporting on the Pentagon Papers, a secret Department of Defense study of the U.S. involvement in Vietnam. Sheehan, when working as a reporter for The New York Times in 1971, obtained the classified documents from Daniel Ellsberg, a military analyst employed by the RAND Corporation. The papers revealed that the U.S. had secretly enlarged the scale of the Vietnam War with the bombings of nearby Cambodia and Laos, and coastal raids on North Vietnam, none of which were reported in the mainstream media. The government attempted to prosecute Ellsberg but the charges were later dropped. In 2011, the Pentagon Papers were declassified and publicly released.
Sheehan published other articles and books on the Vietnam War, including the 1988 book, A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam. It won the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction and the National Book Award for Nonfiction.
1936 Born in Holyhoke, Mass.
1958 B.A., Harvard University.
1961-1962 Night editor, Asian bureau, United Press International, Tokyo, Japan.
1962-1964 Saigon bureau chief, United Press International, Saigon, South Vietnam.
1964-1965 Metropolitan desk and general assignment reporter, New York Times.
1965 Indonesia correspondent, New York Times, Djakarta, Indonesia.
1965-1966 Vietnam correspondent, New York Times , Saigon, South Vietnam.
1966-1968 Defense Department correspondent, New York Times , Washington, D.C., bureau.
1968 White House correspondent, New York Times , Washington, D.C., bureau.
1969 National security affairs correspondent, New York Times , Washington, D.C., bureau.
1971 Bantam Books published Sheehan's investigative work the Pentagon Papers; it was reissued as The Pentagon Papers as Published in the New York Times (New York: Quadrangle Books. 810 pp.).
1972 Published The Arnheiter Affair (New York: Random House). Began leave of absence from the New York Times to write a biography of John Paul Vann.
1975 Resigned from the New York Times.
1988 Published A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam (New York: Random House) Received National Book Award.
1989 Awarded Pulitzer Prize.
1992 Published After the War Was Over: Hanoi and Saigon (New York: Random House).
1881, May 26 Born, Allenport, Pa.
1898 Graduated, Teachers College, California, Pa.
1905 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1905-1909 Ensign on USS Maryland
1910 Married Cora Grover
1910-1912 Commanded the USS Chicago in reserve commission, Boston, Mass.
1914 M.S. in electrical and radio engineering, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1914-1916 Fleet radio officer and aide on the staff of the commander-in-chief, United States Atlantic Fleet
1916-1917 Gunnery officer on USS South Carolina and USS Nevada
1918 Gunnery observer on USS New York, operating in European waters
Gunnery observer in the war zone with the British Grand First Fleet
1919-1920 Chief of Fire Control Section, Bureau of Ordnance, Navy Department, Washington D.C.
Introduced synchronous fire control system and remote control of guns by power
1921-1923 Aide on the staff and fleet gunnery officer to the commander-in-chief, United States Pacific Fleet
1923-1926 Served in office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
1926-1928 Executive officer of USS West Virginia
Captain of USS Neches
Division commander of six destroyers in the Pacific
1928-1931 Chief of Policy and Liaison Section, Office of Island Government, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
1931-1933 Commander of USS Marblehead
1934-1936 Inspector of ordnance in charge, Naval Proving Ground, Dahlgren, Va.
1937-1941 Promoted to rear admiral and chief of the Bureau of Ordnance, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
1941, Feb.-Dec. Commander of Minecraft Battle Force, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii; engaged in defense of Pearl Harbor on 7 December 1941, when his flagship, the USS Oglala, was strafed and torpedoed by the Japanese
1941, Dec.-1945 Commander of navy yard at Pearl Harbor; charged with salvaging and repairing ships sunk during Japanese attack and returning them for use in the Pacific war
1944 Awarded Legion of Merit
1945 Awarded Gold Star in lieu of second Legion of Merit
1946 Retired from United States Navy
1949 Elected commander-in-chief of the Military Order of the World Wars
1950 Presented with the Freedom Foundation award
1976, June 2 Died, Bethesda, Md.
1981 Published So Proudly We Hail: The History of the United States Flag. Washington, D.C.: Smithsonian Institution Press
Francis R. Valleo (1916-2006) was an East Asia specialist in the Legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress, a foreign affairs advisor to Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, secretary of the Senate, and a consultant specializing in Chinese-Asian affairs.
Solomon Mullin served as a flight navigator in the United States, Army Air Force, Bombardment Group, 385th during World War II. His unit was based in England and flew missions over Nazi-occupied Europe. He was awarded the Distinguish Flying Cross for his service. Solomon was born February 9, 1917 and died January 11, 2015. He resided in Dunnellon, Florida.
Luther E. Grim was born in 1914 and died in 1964. He is buried in York County, Pennsylvania.
Dorothy H. Grim was born in 1917 and died in 1996. She was a teacher of the fifth grade at North Hopewell-Winterstown Elementary School in Red Lion, PA. She obtained the maps for her classroom by writing to publishers.
Samuel C. Phillips was a U.S. Air Force officer, space agency official, intelligence agency director, and defense industry executive.
Gifford Pinchot was a conservationist, chief forester for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, professor of forestry at Yale University, and governor of Pennsylvania.
Marshall Ryder was born April 14, 1918 in St. Paul, Minnesota, and died November 25, 2014. Ryder served in the Troop Carrier Command for the United States during World War II. He was aboard a C-47 that dropped paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division on D-Day, June 6, 1944.
Elmo Neale Pickerill was born in 1910 and died in 1975. He was an aviator.
Bertha Schooler Soh was born on August 7, 1915 in New York City and died July 31, 2006.
Sohn was a cataloger with the Smithsonian Institution Libraries, Washington, D.C., from 1963 to 1987.
Thereafter, she worked as a freelance researcher and translator and volunteered in the library of the Adas Israel Congregation, Washington, D.C.
She was a member of the Jewish Genealogical Society of Greater Washington.
The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) was founded in 1943 from the assets of the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) Blue Network. Television network operations commenced in 1948.
The Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) was founded in 1929 as a radio broadcasting network. Television operations began in 1931 with the establishment of experimental station W2XAB in New York City. W2XAB received a commercial license as WCBW (later renamed WCBS) in 1941. Television network operations commenced in 1948.
Comedian, actor, and filmaker Jerry Lewis was born Joseph Levitch in Newark, New Jersey, Mar. 16, 1926. Beginning in 1946, his partner act with Dean Martin, popularly known as Martin and Lewis, were successively among the most popular entertainers in nightclubs, radio, film, and television. Following a professional breakup with Martin, Jerry Lewis embarked on a solo film and television career from 1957-1971. During this period, Lewis increased the scope of his work to include screenwriting, directing, and producing, becoming the total filmmaker, as summed up in his monograph of that title. Sporadic film roles resumed in 1980. Later in his career, Lewis made a critically acclaimed transition to the stage, playing the devil in the Broadway revival of Damn Yankees, beginning in 1995. He died August 20, 2017.
1926, Mar. 16 Jerry Lewis born as Joseph Levitch in Newark, New Jersey
1946, July 25 Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis debut as a team at Atlantic City's 500 Club
1948-1953 The Martin and Lewis Show on the National Broadcasting Company radio network
1949 Martin and Lewis are featured supporting actors in My Friend Irma
1950 Martin and Lewis reprise their roles in My Friend Irma Goes West
Martin and Lewis are in starring roles for At War with the Army
1951 Martin and Lewis in That's My Boy
1952 Martin and Lewis in Sailor Beware, Jumping Jacks, and The Stooge
1953 Martin and Lewis in Scared Stiff, The Caddy, and Money from Home
1954 Martin and Lewis in Living It Up and 3 Ring Circus
1955 Martin and Lewis in You're Never Too Young andArtists and Models
1956 Martin and Lewis in Pardners and Hollywood or Bust
1954 Martin and Lewis in Living It Up and 3 Ring Circus
1957 Jerry Lewis makes his solo film debut in The Delicate Delinquent and The Sad Sack
1958 Jerry Lewis in Rock-a-Bye Baby and The Geisha Boy
1959 Jerry Lewis in Don't Give Up the Ship
1960 Jerry Lewis in Visit to a Small Planet, The Bellboy, and Cinderfella
1961 Jerry Lewis in The Ladies Man and The Errand Boy
1962 Jerry Lewis in It's Only Money
1963 Jerry Lewis in The Nutty Professor and Who's Minding the Store?
The Jerry Lewis Show on the National Broadcasting Company television network
1964 Jerry Lewis in The Patsy and The Disorderly Orderly
1965 Jerry Lewis in The Family Jewels and Boeing Boeing
1966 Jerry Lewis in Three on a Couch and Way...Way Out
1967 Jerry Lewis in The Big Mouth
1967-1969 The Jerry Lewis Show on the American Broadcasting Company television network
1968 Jerry Lewis in Don't Raise the Bridge, Lower the River
1969 Jerry Lewis in Hook, Line & Sinker
1970 Jerry Lewis in Which Way to the Front?
1972 Jerry Lewis films the unreleased motion picture The Day the Clown Cried
1981 Jerry Lewis in Hardly Working
1983 Jerry Lewis in Marti Scorsese's The King of Comedy
1995 Jerry Lewis makes his Broadway debut in the revival of Damn Yankees
1885, Nov. 11 Born, San Gabriel, Calif.
1903-1904 Attended Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Va.
1909 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
Assigned to Fifteenth United States Cavalry, Fort Sheridan, Ill., and Fort Myer, Va.
1910 Married Beatrice Banning Ayer
1912 Member, American team, XII Olympiad, Stockholm, Sweden, finishing fifth in modern pentathlon
1912-1913 Attended French cavalry school, Saumur, France
1913 Graduated, United States Cavalry School, Fort Riley, Kans.
1913-1915 Instructor in weapons, United States Cavalry School, Fort Riley, Kans.
1915-1916 Assigned to Eighth United States Cavalry, Fort Bliss, Tex.
1916-1917 Aide-de-camp to General John J. Pershing, Mexican Punitive Expedition
1917 Aide-de-camp to General John J. Pershing, Commander-in-Chief, American Expeditionary Forces
Commanded Headquarters Troop, American Expeditionary Forces
1917-1918 Detailed as first member of American Tank Corps and attended French Tank School, Camplieu, France
Organized American Tank School, Langres, France
1918 Promoted to temporary rank of lieutenant colonel
1918-1921 Commander, 304th Tank Brigade
1919-1921 Invented a coaxial gun mount
1921-1922 Commander, First Squadron, Third United States Cavalry, Fort Myer, Va.
1923-1928 United States Army General Staff, Boston, Mass., 1923-1924; Hawaii, 1924-1928
1928-1931 Served in Office of the Chief of Cavalry, United States Army
1932 Graduated, United States Army War College
1932-1935 Executive officer, Third United States Cavalry, Fort Myer, Va.
1934 Promoted to lieutenant colonel
1935-1937 G-2, United States Army General Staff, Hawaiian Department
1938 Promoted to colonel
Commander, Fifth United States Cavalry, Fort Clark, Tex.
1938-1940 Commander, Third United States Cavalry, Fort Myer, Va.
1940 Promoted to brigadier general
1940-1941 Commander, Second Armored Brigade, Second Armored Division, Fort Benning, Ga.
1941 Promoted to major general
1941-1942 Commander, Second Armored Division, Fort Benning, Ga.
1942 Commander, I Armored Corps, First and Second Armored Divisions
1942-1943 Commanded Western Task Force during Allied landings and subsequent campaign in North Africa
Transferred to command of United States II Corps
1943 Promoted to lieutenant general
Relinquished command of II Corps to Omar Nelson Bradley
Resumed command of I Armored Corps in preparation for invasion of Sicily
1943-1944 Commanded Seventh United States Army in Sicilian campaign
1944 Ordered to England to take command of Third United States Army in preparation for invasion of France
1944-1945 Commanded Third United States Army in drive across France, Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Austria
1945 Commander, Fifteenth United States Army
1945, Dec. 21 Died, Heidelberg, Germany
1803, Dec. 27 Born, Edenton, N.C.
1819 Moved to Chillicothe, Ohio
1827 Admitted to Ohio bar
1833-1835 Member, United States House of Representatives
1837-1849 United States Senator
1849-1874 Resided on estate near Chillicothe, Ohio
1874-1876 Governor of Ohio
1879, July 11 Died, Chillicothe, Ohio
1899, Nov. 16 Born, Ansonia, Conn.
1924 B.A., Howard University , Washington, D.C.
1926 M.A. in history, Columbia University , New York, N.Y.
1928-1933 Field representative and research assistant to Carter G. Woodson, director, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History , Washington, D.C.
1930 Published with Carter G. Woodson The Negro Wage Earner (Washington, D.C.: Associated Publishers. 388 pp.)
1931 Published with Myra C. Callis The Employment of Negroes in the District of Columbia (Washington, D.C.: Associated Publishers. 89 pp.)
1933-1972 Instructor and professor of history, Lincoln University , Jefferson City, Mo.
1942 Ph.D. in history, Columbia University , New York, N.Y.
Published The Negro in Colonial New England, 1620-1776 (New York: Columbia University Press. 404 pp.)
Married Thomasina Tally
1955 Chairman, program committee, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History annual meeting, Los Angeles, Calif.
1947-1956 Editor, Midwest Journal , Lincoln University , Jefferson City, Mo.
1964 Chairman, program committee, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History annual meeting, Detroit, Mich.
1959-1961 Chairman, SubCommittee on Education, Missouri Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights
1965-1966 President, Association for the Study of Negro Life and History
1971 Honorary LH.D., University of Missouri , Columbia, Mo.
1971-1972 Director, Institute for Drop-Out Prevention and Teacher Orientation , Jefferson City, Mo.
1972-1974 Director, Institute to Facilitate Desegregation in Kansas City Public Schools , Kansas City, Mo.
1980 Published with Antonio F. Holland and Gary Kremer Missouri's Black Heritage (St. Louis: Forum Press. 195 pp.)
1988, Jan. 24 Died, Jefferson City, Mo.
1988 Posthumous publication of Working with Carter G. Woodson, the Father of Black History, a Diary, 1928-30 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press. 487 pp.)
1891, May 14 Born, Dayton, Ohio
1913 A.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1916 LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1916-1917 Attended Harvard University School of Business Administration, Cambridge, Mass.
1917-1919 Second lieutenant, United States Army
1919-1920 Admitted to Ohio bar
Law clerk, Dayton, Ohio
1921 Secretary of legation, State Department, Washington, D.C.
1921-1922 Assistant secretary, Conference on Limitation of Armament, Washington, D.C.
1922-1930 Secretary of embassy or legation in Peking, China, 1922-1924; Bogota, Colombia, 1924-1926; and Ankara, Turkey, 1926-1930
1931-1934 Assistant chief, Division of Protocol and Conferences, State Department, Washington, D.C.
1934-1936 Consul, Breslau, Poland
1936-1938 First secretary, American embassy, Oslo, Norway
1939-1941 In charge of Prisoner of War Section, American embassy, Berlin, Germany
Entrusted with protection of Belgian, British, and French interests in Germany
1940 Married Mary Marvin Breckinridge
1941-1945 Deputy chief of mission, American embassy, Lima, Peru
1944 Published Outside and In, 1939-1941 (Lima: n.p. 66 pp.)
1945-1946 Counselor, American embassy, Brussels, Belgium
1946-1949 Counselor, American embassy, Cairo, Egypt
1950-1952 United States representative, United Nations Special Committee on the Balkans
1956-1958 Ambassador, Uruguay
1958 Retired from diplomatic service
1962 Published Diplomatic Terminus, An Experience in Uruguay (Cambridge: Riverside Press. 113 pp.)
1966 Published Capitals and Captives (Cambridge: Riverside Press. 314 pp.)
1967 Published Family Portraits (Nashville: Baird-Ward Printing Co. 63 pp.)
1977, Nov. 12 Died, Washington, D.C.
1911, May 27 Born, St. Louis, Mo.
1933 B.A., Yale University , New Haven, Conn.
1934 Teacher, Riverdale Country Day School , Riverdale, N.Y.
1934-1935 Attended Courtauld Institute of Art, University of London , London, England
1935 First professional stage appearance in Chicago, Gate Theatre , London, England
1935-1937 Appeared as Prince Albert in Victoria Regina, first on London stage, then from December 1935 to June 1937 opposite Helen Hayes on Broadway, Broadhurst Theatre , New York, N.Y.
1937-1938 Appeared in Mercury Theatre stage productions
1938 Married Edith Barrett (divorced 1948)
First motion picture role in Service de Luxe
1943 Opened the Little Gallery , Beverly Hills, Calif.
1947-1950 Appeared on radio in "The Saint"
1948 Established Modern Institute of Art , Beverly Hills, Calif.
1949 Married Mary Grant (divorced 1973)
1953 Appeared in motion picture House of Wax
1953-circa 1969 Board of directors, UCLA Art Council, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.; served as president
1956 Guest appearances on television quiz show "$64,000 Challenge"
1957-1971 Member, Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Interior Department; elected chairman, 1967
circa 1957-1971 Trustee, Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution
1958 Established Vincent and Mary Price Gallery, East Los Angeles College , Los Angeles, Calif.
Host television game show, "ESP"
1959 Published I Like What I Know: A Visual Autobiography (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday. 313 pp.)
1960 Appeared in House of Usher, the first of the Edgar Allan Poe cycle of films for American International Pictures
1961 Published The Book of Joe: About a Dog and His Man (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday. 144 pp.)
circa 1960-1963 Member, Fine Arts Committee for the White House
1962-1977 Consultant, Sears, Roebuck and Co.
1965 Published with Mary Grant Price A Treasury of Great Recipes (N.Y.: Ampersand Press. 465 pp.)
1966-1967 Television series "If These Walls Could Speak"
1966-1970 Syndicated newspaper column on art
1971 British television series "Cooking Price-Wise"
1972 Published The Vincent Price Treasury of American Art (Waukesha, Wis.: Country Beautiful Corp. 320 pp.)
1974 Married Coral Browne (died 1991)
1977-1982 Toured as Oscar Wilde in one-man show Diversions and Delights
1979 Television series, "Time Express," costarring with Coral Browne
1981-1989 Host of "Mystery!" series on public television
1981 Published with Vincent Barrett Price Monsters (N.Y.: Grosset & Dunlap. 186 pp.)
1990 Last feature film role in Edward Scissorhands
1993, Oct. 25 Died, Los Angeles, Calif.
1887, Sept. 13 Born, Oyster Bay, N.Y.
1908 A.B., Harvard University , Cambridge, Mass.
1910 Married Eleanor Butler Alexander (died 1960)
1910-1917 Engaged in business
1917, June Arrived in France with the U.S. Army's First Division, American Expeditionary Forces
1918 Promoted to lieutenant colonel
1919 Helped organize the American Legion
Published Average Americans (New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons. 252 pp.)
1919-1920 Member, New York State Assembly
1921-1924 Assistant secretary of the navy
1922 Chairman, Committee of Naval Experts at Limitation of Armament Conference
1924 Republican candidate for governor of New York
1925-1926 Led James Simpson-Roosevelt Asiatic expedition
1926 Published with Kermit Roosevelt East of the Sun and West of the Moon (New York: C. Scribner's Sons. 284 pp.)
1928 Published Rank and File; True Stories of the Great War (New York: C. Scribner's Sons. 279 pp.)
1928-1929 Led Kelley-Roosevelt-Field Museum expedition, Asia
1929 Published All In the Family (New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons. 189 pp.)
Published with Kermit Roosevelt Trailing the Giant Panda (New York: C. Scribner's Sons. 278 pp.)
1929-1932 Governor, Puerto Rico
1932-1933 Governor General, the Philippines
1933 Published with Harold J. Coolidge Three Kingdoms of Indo-China (New York: Thomas Y. Crowell. 331 pp.)
1934-1935 Chairman of the Board, American Express Co.
1935 Vice president, Doubleday, Doran and Co.
1937 Published Colonial Policies Of the United States (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Doran. 204 pp.)
1941 Returned to active duty in the U.S. Army; promoted to brigadier general
1944, July 12 Died in France
1904, 19 Mar. Born, Waterbury, Conn.
1926 LL.B., Georgetown University , Washington, D.C.
1926-1930 Private legal practice, Washington, D.C.
1930-1934 Assistant United States attorney for the District of Columbia, Washington, D.C.
1934-1944 Private legal practice, Washington, D.C.
1944 General counsel, Select Committee to Investigate the Federal Communications Commission, United States House of Representatives
1949-1957 Member, law firm of Hogan and Hartson , Washington, D.C.
1952 Married Lucile M. Camalier
1957-1986 Judge, United States District Court for the District of Columbia ; chief judge, 1971-1974; senior judge, 1977-1986
1973 Named Time magazine's man of the year
Awarded American Judges Association's award of merit
1979 Published To Set the Record Straight: The Break-in, the Tapes, the Conspirators, the Pardon (New York: W. W. Norton. 394 pp.)
1992, 14 Aug. Died, Washington, D.C.
1888, June 22 Born, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
1905 Graduated from Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
1909 A.B., Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine
1912 LL.B., Harvard University Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
Married Selma Florence Smith
1912-1914 Practiced law with the firm of Gage, Wilber and Wachner, Cleveland, Ohio
1914-1916 Assistant attorney, Utah Power and Light Co. and the Utah Light and Traction Co., Salt Lake City, Utah
1916-1917 Attorney, Idaho Power Co. and the Boise Valley Traction Co., Boise, Idaho
1917-1919 First lieutenant and captain, 361st Regiment, Ninety-first Division, United States Army, American Expeditionary Forces
1919-1925 Practiced law with and later a member of the firm of Day, Day, and Wilkins, Cleveland, Ohio
1921 Published 600 Days' Service: A History of the 361st Infantry Regiment of the United States Army (Portland, Oreg.: James, Kerns, and Abbott Co. 276 pp.)
1921-1922 Major, Cleveland Grays, Cleveland, Ohio
1923-1925 Instructor, corporation law, Western Reserve University Law School, Cleveland, Ohio
1925-1929 Member, Cull, Burton, and Laughlin law firm, Cleveland, Ohio
1926-1927 Chairman, Cuyahoga County Council of the American Legion
1926-1928 President, First Unitarian Church, Cleveland, Ohio
1928-1929 Member, Board of Education, East Cleveland, Ohio
1929 Member, Ohio House of Representatives, 88th General Assembly
1929-1932 Director of law, Cleveland, Ohio
1930 Acting city manager, Cleveland, Ohio
1931-1932 Acting mayor, Cleveland, Ohio
1932-1933 Chairman, Inter-City Committee of Lake Erie Ports
1932-1936 Member, Andrews, Hadden, and Burton law firm, Cleveland, Ohio
1934-1935 Chairman, County Charter Commission, Cuyahoga County, Ohio
1935-1940 Mayor, Cleveland, Ohio
1937-1940 Member, Board of Trustees of the United States Conference of Mayors
1937-1946 Member, Board of Incorporators of the American Red Cross
1941-1945 United States Senator from Ohio
1944-1946 National moderator, American Unitarian Association
1945-1958 Associate justice, Supreme Court of the United States
1964, Oct. 28 Died, Washington, D.C.
1892, Feb. 13 Born, Spring Creek Township, Waren Co. Pa.
1912 Graduation certificate, Albany Law School, Union University, Albany, N.Y. (degree awarded June 1941 as a member of the class of 1912)
1913 Admitted to the bar in New York
1916 Married Irene Gerhardt
1918 Corporation counsel, Jamestown, N.Y.
1919 Junior partner, law firm of Dean, Edson and Jackson
1923 Formed law partnership with Henry S. Manley and Gerald A. Herrick
1927-1933 Member, law firm of Jackson and Herrick
1932 Member, Commission to Investigate the Administration of Justice in New York
1934 Assistant general counsel, Bureau of Internal Revenue
1935 Assistant attorney general, Tax Division, Department of Justice
1936 Assistant attorney general, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice
1938 Solicitor general
1940 Attorney general
1941-1954 Associate justice, United States Supreme Court
1945 United States chief of counsel for the prosecution of Axis war criminals, Nuremberg War Crimes Trial
1954, Oct. 9 Died, Washington, D. C.
1911, Jan. 3 Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1932 B.S., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1935 LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Counsel to Securities and Exchange Commission
Married Olie Westheimer
1936-1939 Law secretary, Supreme Court justices Benjamin N. Cardozo and Felix Frankfurter
1939-1942 Counsel, Department of Labor, Federal Communications Commission, Lend-Lease Administration, and Office for Emergency Management
1942-1945 Served on Douglas MacArthur's staff in the United States Army in Southwest Pacific; awarded Legion of Merit and Philippine Distinguished Service Star
1946-1947 General deputy housing expediter, Veterans Emergency Housing Program
1947 One of the founders of the Americans for Democratic Action (ADA); chairman of its executive committee, 1947-1952
1947-1986 Practiced law, Washington, D.C.
1952-1955 Vice chairman, Americans for Democratic Action (ADA)
1955-1957 Chairman, Americans for Democratic Action (ADA)
1992, Sept. 3 Died, Washington, D.C.
1915, May 11 Born, Boston, Mass.
1938 Graduated, Lincoln Technical Institute of Northeastern University, Boston, Mass.
1939 Married Eva Gertrude Luscombe (divorced 1967)
Sales representative, Holmes Direct Mail Service, Cambridge, Mass.
1940 Organizer and chairman, Cambridge Youth Council, Cambridge, Mass.
Reported suspicions of communist control of Cambridge Youth Council to Boston, Mass., office, Federal Bureau of Investigation
1941 Began reporting to Federal Bureau of Investigation on actions of Communist Party
1942 Joined Young Communist League
1942-1949 Assistant advertising director, Paramount Theaters Division of New England, M & P Theatres Co., Boston, Mass.
1944 Joined Communist Party
1949 Testified in federal court as surprise witness against eleven Communist Party leaders indicted for violation of the Smith Act
1951 Testified before hearings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities regarding Communist Party activities in the Boston, Mass., area
“I Led 3 Lives” serialized in the New York Herald Tribune
1951-1957 Lectured on anticommunist topics
1952 Published I Led 3 Lives: Citizen, “Communist,” Counterspy. New York: McGraw-Hill.
1952-1958 Wrote syndicated column “Red Underground ” for the New York Herald Tribune
1953-1956 Technical advisor for television program I Led 3 Lives
1961-1962 Prepared series of five-minute television programs, The Red Report
1963-1969 Wrote newsletters, Dollar Hollar, Herb Philbrick's News Bulletin, Peoples Voice, and Schick Razor's Edge
1964 Candidate for delegate-at-large from New Hampshire to the Republican National Convention for presidential candidate Barry M. Goldwater
1967-1969 National Director, United States Anti-Communist Congress
1968 Married Shirley J. Brown
1969-1977 Editor and publisher, Washington Exclusive, U.S. Press Association
1972 Published I Led 3 Lives: Citizen, “Communist,” Counterspy , revised edition. Washington, D.C.: Capitol Hill Press
1976-1977 Writer-editor, Division of Organization and Personnel, United States Nuclear Regulatory Agency, Washington, D.C.
1977-1979 Store manager, Fletcher's Paint Works, Hampton, N.H.
1982-circa 1989 Court reporter and free-lance writer for Rockingham County, N.H., newspapers
1990-1993 President, Constructive Action
1993, Aug. 16 Died, North Hampton, N.H.
1891, Nov. 22 Born, Vienna, Austria
1908 Graduated, DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.
1912 A.B., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1913-1915 Newspaper reporter, New York, N.Y.
1918-1919 Served with the United States Commission on Public Information at the Peace Conference, Paris, France
1919-1963 Public relations counsel, New York, N.Y.
1922 Married Doris E. Fleischman
1923 Published Crystallizing Public Opinion. New York: Boni and Liveright
1925 Assistant commissioner, Commerce Department, Paris, France, Exposition
1928 Published Propaganda. New York: H. Liveright
1940 Published Speak Up for Democracy: What You Can Do--A Practical Plan of Action for Every American Citizen. New York: Viking Press
1945 Published Take Your Place at the Peace Table. New York: Gerent Press
1952 Published Public Relations. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press
1955 Editor, Engineering of Consent. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press
1961 Published Your Future in Public Relations. New York: Richards Rosen Press
1965 Published Biography of an Idea: Memoirs of Public Relations Counsel Edward L. Bernays. New York: Simon and Schuster
1968-1969 Adjunct professor, School of Public Relations, Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1970 Editor, Case for Reappraisal of U.S. Overseas Information Policy and Program. New York: Praeger
1970-1975 Consultant, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, State Department
Consultant, Mental Health Department of Massachusetts
1976 Consultant, Department of Health, Education and Welfare
1977 Consultant, Commerce Department
1979 Published Your Future in a Public Relations Career. New York: Richards Rosen Press
1986 Published Later Years: Public Relations Insights. Rhinebeck, N.Y.: H&M Publishers
1995, Mar. 9 Died, Cambridge, Mass.
1910, 16 June Born, Los Angeles, Calif.
1932 A.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1935 LL.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1935-1941 Attorney, Securities and Exchange Commission
1936 Married Marion Holliday Pike
1941-1967 Member, law firm of Covington & Burling, Washington, D.C.
1945-1946 Chief assistant counsel, Joint Committee on the Investigation of the Pearl Harbor Attack
1962-1964 Chairman, President's Committee on Equal Opportunity in the Armed Forces
1968-1993 Judge, United States District Court for the District of Columbia
1976-1981 Member, District of Columbia Judicial Tenure and Disability Commission
1993, 19 Feb. Died, Washington, D.C.
1849, Mar. 7 Born, Lancaster, Mass.
1871 Opened plant nursery in Lunenburg, Mass.
1871-1875 Developed the Burbank potato
1875 Moved to Santa Rosa, Calif.
1890 Married Helen Coleman (divorced 1896)
1893 Published first descriptive seed catalog, New Creations
1904-1906 Visiting lecturer, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1905-1910 Awarded $10,000 annual stipend by the Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, D.C.
1914-1915 Published Luther Burbank, His Methods and Discoveries and Their Practical Application (New York: Luther Burbank Press. 12 vols.)
1916 Married Elizabeth Waters
1926, Apr. 11 Died, Santa Rosa, Calif.
1927 Posthumous publication with Wilbur Hall of The Harvest of the Years (Boston: Houghton Mifflin. 296 pp.)
1900, July 29 Born, Washington, D.C.
1913-1914 Attended College Classique Cantonal, Lausanne, Switzerland
1915-1919 Attended St. Bees School, Cumberland, England
1920 Engaged in export-import business in Shanghai, China
1921 Assistant editor of newspaper in Tientsin, China
1922-1926 Employed by Arnold & Co., Tientsin and Peking, China
1926 Married Eleanor Holgate of Evanston, Ill.
1926-1927 Traveled with his wife by rail and camel from Peking, China, through Inner Mongolia, the Etsin Gol, the Black Gobi, and Kashmir, Pakistan, to Bombay, India, then by ship to Italy
1928-1929 Attended Harvard Graduate School, Cambridge, Mass., and Harvard-Yenching Institute, Yenching, China
1929-1930 Researched in Manchuria under Social Sciences Research Council
1930-1931 Researched in Peiping, China, under Harvard-Yenching Institute, Yenching, China
1931-1933 Researched under J. S. Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, New York, N.Y.
1934-1937 Field work in Mongolia and research in Peiping, China, under Institute of Pacific Relations
1934-1941 Editor, Pacific Affairs
1938-1963 Lecturer, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1939-1953 Director, Walter Hines Page School of International Relations, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1941-1942 Political advisor to Chiang Kai-shek
1942-1944 Director, Pacific Operations, United States Office of War Information
1945-1946 Member, United States Reparations Mission to Japan
1950 Chief, United Nations Technical Aid Exploratory Mission to Afghanistan
1951 Investigated by Senate Foreign Relations Committee as a communist sympathizer and Soviet spy; indicted on seven counts of perjury
1955 Perjury indictments dismissed by United States District Court
1958-1959 Visiting lectureships, Vlieme Section, Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris, France
1963-1970 Professor of Chinese Studies, University of Leeds, Leeds, England
1965 Chichele Lecturer, Oxford University, Oxford, England
1982 Visiting Professor, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J.
1989, May 31 Died, Providence, R.I.
1919, Jan. 31 Born, Cairo, Ga.
1939-1941 Attended University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.; first school athlete to letter in four sports
1942-1944 Second lieutenant, cavalry, United States Army
1945 Played baseball for the Kansas City Monarchs, Negro National League
Signed contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers
1946 Married Rachel A. Isum
First African American to play professional baseball in the twentieth century; joined the Montreal Royals, a minor league affiliate of the Brooklyn Dodgers
1947 Promoted to the Brooklyn Dodgers breaking the major league "color barrier"
Rookie of the Year award
1947-1956 Played major league baseball with the Brooklyn Dodgers
1949 National League Most Valuable Player award
1950 Motion picture, The Jackie Robinson Story
1956 Awarded the NAACP Spingarn Medal
1957 Retired from professional baseball after being traded to the New York Giants
Chairman, NAACP Fight for Freedom Fund
1957-1964 Vice president, Chock Full O'Nuts
1962 Elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum, Cooperstown, N.Y.
1964 Published Baseball Has Done It, edited by Charles Dexter (Philadelphia: Lippincott. 216 pp.)
1964-1972 Founder and chairman of the board, Freedom National Bank of New York
1965 Published with Alfred Duckett Breakthrough to the Big League (New York: Harper & Row. 178 pp.)
1966-1968 Special assistant for community affairs to New York Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller
1972 Published with Alfred Duckett I Never Had It Made (New York: Putnam. 287 pp.)
1972, Oct. 24 Died, Stamford, Conn.
1984 Awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom (posthumously)
1997 Major League Baseball retired Robinson's number forty-two in perpetuity (posthumously)
Benjamin B. French
1800, Sept. 4 Born, Chester, N.H.
1825 Married Elizabeth Richardson (died 1861)
1828-1830 Assistant clerk, New Hampshire state senate
1831-1833 Representative, New Hampshire legislature
1833 Accepted appointment in clerk's department of the United States House of Representatives
1845-1847 Clerk of the United States House of Representatives
1847-1850 President, Magnetic Telegraph Co.
1853 Appointed commissioner of public buildings by President Franklin Pierce (resigned 1855)
1857 President, Republican Association of Washington, Washington, D.C.
1859-1865 Grand master of Templars of the United States
1861 Chief marshal of District of Columbia at inauguration of Abraham Lincoln
1861-1867 Commissioner of public buildings under presidents Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson
1862 Married Mary Ellen Brady
1870, Aug. 12 Died, Washington, D.C.
Francis O. French
1837, Sept. 12 Born, Chester, N.H.
1857 Graduated, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1859 LL.B., Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1861 Married Ellen Tuck
1862 Appointed deputy naval officer of customs, Boston, Mass.
1865 Joined banking firm Samuel A. Way & Co., Boston, Mass.
1870 Joined banking firm Jay Cooke & Co., New York, N.Y.
1873 Promoted to partner, Jay Cooke & Co.
1874 Member of a group that acquired control of the First National Bank of New York
1880 Disposed of his interest in First National Bank of New York and retired
1888-1893 President, Manhattan Trust Co., New York, N.Y.
1893, Feb. 26 Died, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
Amos Tuck
1810, Aug. 2 Born, Parsonsfield, Maine
1834 Married Sarah Nudd (died 1847)
1835 Graduated, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
1838 Began law practice in Exeter, N.H.
1842 Representative, New Hampshire legislature
1847 Married Catherine Townsend Shephard (died 1876)
1847-1853 Member, United States House of Representatives
1853-1854 Assisted in founding the Republican party
1860 Member, platform committee, Republican party national convention, Chicago, Ill.
1861 Delegate, Peace Congress, Washington, D.C.
1861-1865 Naval officer of the district of Boston and Charlestown, Mass.
1865 Resumed law practice
1879, Dec. 11 Died, Exeter, N.H.
Benjamin B. French
1800, Sept. 4 Born, Chester, N.H.
1825 Married Elizabeth Richardson (died 1861)
1828-1830 Assistant clerk, New Hampshire state senate
1831-1833 Representative, New Hampshire legislature
1833 Accepted appointment in clerk's department of the United States House of Representatives
1845-1847 Clerk of the United States House of Representatives
1847-1850 President, Magnetic Telegraph Co.
1853 Appointed commissioner of public buildings by President Franklin Pierce (resigned 1855)
1857 President, Republican Association of Washington, Washington, D.C.
1859-1865 Grand master of Templars of the United States
1861 Chief marshal of District of Columbia at inauguration of Abraham Lincoln
1861-1867 Commissioner of public buildings under presidents Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson
1862 Married Mary Ellen Brady
1870, Aug. 12 Died, Washington, D.C.
Francis O. French
1837, Sept. 12 Born, Chester, N.H.
1857 Graduated, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1859 LL.B., Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1861 Married Ellen Tuck
1862 Appointed deputy naval officer of customs, Boston, Mass.
1865 Joined banking firm Samuel A. Way & Co., Boston, Mass.
1870 Joined banking firm Jay Cooke & Co., New York, N.Y.
1873 Promoted to partner, Jay Cooke & Co.
1874 Member of a group that acquired control of the First National Bank of New York
1880 Disposed of his interest in First National Bank of New York and retired
1888-1893 President, Manhattan Trust Co., New York, N.Y.
1893, Feb. 26 Died, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
Amos Tuck
1810, Aug. 2 Born, Parsonsfield, Maine
1834 Married Sarah Nudd (died 1847)
1835 Graduated, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
1838 Began law practice in Exeter, N.H.
1842 Representative, New Hampshire legislature
1847 Married Catherine Townsend Shephard (died 1876)
1847-1853 Member, United States House of Representatives
1853-1854 Assisted in founding the Republican party
1860 Member, platform committee, Republican party national convention, Chicago, Ill.
1861 Delegate, Peace Congress, Washington, D.C.
1861-1865 Naval officer of the district of Boston and Charlestown, Mass.
1865 Resumed law practice
1879, Dec. 11 Died, Exeter, N.H.
1898, Apr. 3 Born, Shantung Province, China, in Presbyterian mission house
1908-1912 Attended Chefoo School, Chefoo [Yantai], China
1912-1913 Attended St. Alban's School north of London, England
1913-1916 Attended Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
1920 B.A., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1920-1921 Student, Oxford University, Oxford, England
1921-1922 Reporter, Chicago Daily News and Baltimore Sun
1923 Cofounded Time with Briton Hadden
Married Lila Holz (divorced 1935)
1930 Founded Fortune
1930-1938 Editor-in-chief, Time Publications
1931 First “March of Time” radio program
1935 First “March of Time” newsreel
Married Clare Boothe Brokaw
1936 Founded Life
1938 Editorial director, Time, inc.
1940 Organizer, United China Relief
1944 Initiated Commission on Freedom of the Press
1947 Awarded Order of Auspicious Star (China)
1952 Founded House and Home
1954 Founded Sports Illustrated
1964 Retired from Time/Life
1967, Feb. 28 Died, Phoenix, Ariz.
1706, Jan. 17 Born, Boston, Mass.
1718-1723 Apprenticed as a printer to his brother James Franklin
1725-1726 Journeyman printer, London, England
1727 Founded the Junta, a debating club, Philadelphia, Pa.
1728 Wrote Articles of Belief and Acts of Religion
1729 Purchased Pennsylvania Gazette
1730 Married Deborah Read Rogers (died 1774)
1731 Established the Library Company of Philadelphia, Pa.
1732-1758 Published Poor Richard, 1732-1747, and Poor Richard Improved, 1748-1758, commonly known under collective title Poor Richard's Almanack
1736-1751 Clerk, Pennsylvania Assembly
1740 Invented the Pennsylvania fireplace (Franklin stove)
1743 Proposed formation of the American Philosophical Society
1751 Founded with others, the Academy for Education of Youth (now University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.)
Founded Philadelphia City Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa.
Published letters to Peter Collinson, Experiments and Observations on Electricity. London: Printed and Sold by E. Cave
1751-1764 Represented Philadelphia at the Pennsylvania Assembly
1754 Represented Pennsylvania at the Albany Congress
1757-1762 Political agent of the Pennsylvania Assembly, London, England
1766 Reappointed as agent for Pennsylvania, London, England
1771 Began autobiography
1775 Left London, England, for Massachusetts
Elected member of the Second Continental Congress
Named postmaster general
1776 Served on committee to draft the Declaration of Independence
Went to France as one of three American commissioners to negotiate a treaty
1778 Negotiated treaties of commerce and defense with France
Appointed sole plenipotentiary in France
1781 Appointed with John Jay and John Adams to negotiate a peace with Great Britain
1783 Signed Treaty of Paris with Great Britain and asked Congress for his recall
1785 Returned to the United States
1785-1788 President, Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania
1787 Represented Pennsylvania at the Constitutional Convention
1790 Signed memorial to Congress as last official act as president of the Pennsylvania Society for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery
1790, Apr. 17 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
1838, Oct. 8 Born, Salem, Ind.
1858 Graduated, Brown University, Providence, R.I.
1859 Entered law office of Milton Hay, Springfield, Ill.
1861-1864 Assistant private secretary to Abraham Lincoln
1864-1865 Assistant adjutant general in the United States Army
1865-1867 Secretary of American legation, Paris, France
1867-1868 Charge d'affaires, Vienna, Austria
1869-1870 Secretary of American legation, Madrid, Spain
1870-1875 Editorial writer, New York Tribune
1874 Married Clara Louise Stone (died 1914)
1879-1881 Assistant secretary of state
1881 Editor, New York Tribune
1897-1898 Ambassador to Great Britain
1898-1905 Secretary of state
1905, July 1 Died, Lake Sunapee, N.H.
1896, Apr. 13 Born, Field Creek, Tex.
1917 Joined Sixty-fourth Infantry Regiment, U.S. Army, El Paso, Tex.; appointed second lieutenant
1918 Flight instruction, Austin and Kelly Field, Tex.
1919-1921 Second and Third Aero Squadrons, Philippine Islands; promoted to captain
1922-1923 Commander, Fifth Aero Squadron and Post Adjutant, Mitchel Field, N.Y.
1923[?] Married Leah Chase (divorced 1930)
1923-1924 Studied contract law, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1924-1926 Executive assistant, Office of Air Service, Washington, D.C.
1926-1927 Pilot, Pan-American Goodwill flight around South America; received Distinguished Flying Cross
1927-1928 Executive officer, Office of Assistant Secretary of War, Washington, D.C.
1928-1932 Operations and line maintenance officer, Bolling Field, Washington, D.C.
1929, Jan. 1-7 Chief pilot, "Question Mark" refueling endurance flight; received oak leaf cluster to Distinguished Flying Cross
1931 Married Ruth Apperson
1934 B.A., University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif.
Commanded Air Mail Route 4, Western Zone, army air corps mail operations
1934-1935 Commanded Thirty-fourth Pursuit Squadron and Seventeenth Pursuit Squadron, March Field, Calif.; promoted to major
1935-1936 Attended Air Corps Tactical School, Maxwell Field, Ala.
1940 Promoted to lieutenant colonel
1940-1941 Commander, Twentieth Pursuit Group, Hamilton, Tex.
1941-1942 Special duty, Royal Air Force (R.A.F.) to observe and fly new types of fighter planes and to observe British fighter control methods, England
1942 Organized and commanded Eighth Bomber Command
1942-1944 Commander, Eighth Air Force in England; commanding general, United States Army Air Forces in the United Kingdom
1944-1945 Air commander in chief, Mediterranean Allied Air Forces
1945 Deputy commander, army air forces, and chief of air staff
1946 Promoted to lieutenant general retroactive to 1 Dec. 1944
1947 Retired from military service
1947-1957 Vice president, Hughes Tool Co.; represented Hughes Tool Co. at Hughes Aircraft Company, Houston, Tex. (1947-1948) and Culver City, Calif. (1948-1957)
1957-1961 Vice president, eastern office, Douglas Aircraft Co., Washington, D.C.
1961-[?] Chairman, Advisory Board, Hughes Aircraft Co.
1962-1980 Wrote syndicated weekly newspaper column on national security issues
1972-1973 First president, United States Strategic Institute, which published the Strategic Review; later vice chairman and member, board of directors
1985 Awarded fourth star; made a full general as a result of special legislation
1987, Aug. 6 Died, Camp Springs, Md.
Josiah Bartlett (1729-1795)
1729, Nov. 21 Born, Amesbury, Mass.
1750 Moved to Kingston, N.H.; began to practice medicine
1750, circa Married Mary Barton
1775-1779 Member, Continental Congress
1776 Signed Declaration of Independence
1782-1788 Justice, Superior Court, New Hampshire
1788 Chairman, New Hampshire state convention to ratify the United States Constitution
1790-1792 President of New Hampshire
1791 First president, New Hampshire Medical Society
1793 Governor of New Hampshire
1795, May 19 Died, Kingston, N.H.
Levi Bartlett (1763-1828)
1763 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1778 Attended Dummer School, Dummer, N.H.
1791-1819 Practiced medicine
1791 Joined New Hampshire Medical Society
1800-1806 Secretary, New Hampshire Medical Society
1804 Presidential elector
1816-1820 Judge of Circuit Court
1828 Died, Kingston, N.H.
Josiah Bartlett (1768-1838)
1768, Aug. 29 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1789 Moved to Stratham, N.H.
1792 Married E. Wingate
1789-1829 Practiced medicine
1799 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1809-1810 State senator, New Hampshire
1811-1813 Member, United States Congress
1812 Married Hannah Weeks
1815 President, New Hampshire Medical Society
1816-1817 Treasurer, Rockingham County, N.H.
1824 President, New Hampshire state senate
1838, Apr. 16 Died, Stratham, N.H.
Ezra Bartlett (1770-1848)
1770 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1794 Received medical certificate
1794-circa 1838 Practiced medicine
1798 Moved to Warren, N.H.
1799 Married Hannah Gale
1800-1823 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1806 State senator, New Hampshire
1812 Moved to Haverhill, N.H.
1816 Judge, circuit court
1820 Chief justice, Court of Sessions
1822-1824 Member, Governor's Council
1820-1828 Presidential elector
1848 Died, Haverhill, N.H.
Josiah Bartlett (1803-1853)
1803, May 3 Born, Warren, N.H.
1812 Moved with family to Haverhill, N.H.
1824 M.D., Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
Moved to Stratham, N.H.
1824-1853 Practiced medicine, Stratham, N.H.
1824-1853 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1827 Married Hannah E. W. Thompson
1853 Died, Norwalk, Conn.
Josiah Bartlett (1729-1795)
1729, Nov. 21 Born, Amesbury, Mass.
1750 Moved to Kingston, N.H.; began to practice medicine
1750, circa Married Mary Barton
1775-1779 Member, Continental Congress
1776 Signed Declaration of Independence
1782-1788 Justice, Superior Court, New Hampshire
1788 Chairman, New Hampshire state convention to ratify the United States Constitution
1790-1792 President of New Hampshire
1791 First president, New Hampshire Medical Society
1793 Governor of New Hampshire
1795, May 19 Died, Kingston, N.H.
Levi Bartlett (1763-1828)
1763 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1778 Attended Dummer School, Dummer, N.H.
1791-1819 Practiced medicine
1791 Joined New Hampshire Medical Society
1800-1806 Secretary, New Hampshire Medical Society
1804 Presidential elector
1816-1820 Judge of Circuit Court
1828 Died, Kingston, N.H.
Josiah Bartlett (1768-1838)
1768, Aug. 29 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1789 Moved to Stratham, N.H.
1792 Married E. Wingate
1789-1829 Practiced medicine
1799 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1809-1810 State senator, New Hampshire
1811-1813 Member, United States Congress
1812 Married Hannah Weeks
1815 President, New Hampshire Medical Society
1816-1817 Treasurer, Rockingham County, N.H.
1824 President, New Hampshire state senate
1838, Apr. 16 Died, Stratham, N.H.
Ezra Bartlett (1770-1848)
1770 Born, Kingston, N.H.
1794 Received medical certificate
1794-circa 1838 Practiced medicine
1798 Moved to Warren, N.H.
1799 Married Hannah Gale
1800-1823 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1806 State senator, New Hampshire
1812 Moved to Haverhill, N.H.
1816 Judge, circuit court
1820 Chief justice, Court of Sessions
1822-1824 Member, Governor's Council
1820-1828 Presidential elector
1848 Died, Haverhill, N.H.
Josiah Bartlett (1803-1853)
1803, May 3 Born, Warren, N.H.
1812 Moved with family to Haverhill, N.H.
1824 M.D., Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
Moved to Stratham, N.H.
1824-1853 Practiced medicine, Stratham, N.H.
1824-1853 Member, New Hampshire Medical Society
1827 Married Hannah E. W. Thompson
1853 Died, Norwalk, Conn.
1906, Apr. 19 Born, Vaslui, Romania
1920 Emigrated to United States
1928 Naturalized United States citizen
1929 A.B., College of the City of New York, New York, N.Y.
1932 J.D., Harvard University Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1933 Studied at Moscow Law Institute, Moscow, USSR
1934-1937 Moscow correspondent, New York Herald Tribune, Morning Post of London, and Reuters of London
1937-1973 Chief correspondent and manager of Moscow bureau, United Press International
1937 Married Ludmilla Nikitina
1942 First American correspondent to file an eyewitness report from the Battle of Stalingrad
1953 First westerner to report Joseph Stalin's death
1954 Published L'U.R.S.S. après Staline (n.p.: Gallimard. 254 pp.)
1955 Nieman Fellow, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1962-1963 Visiting lecturer, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1973 Retired from United Press International and moved to Madison, Wis.
1973-1979 Kemper K. Knapp professor and adjunct professor, University of Wisconsin School of Journalism, Madison, Wis.
1991, Apr. 4 Died, Madison, Wis.
1912, Oct. 30 Born, Greenville, S.C.
1933 A.B., Furman University, Greenville, S.C.
1936 LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1936-1957 Lawyer, Haynsworth, Perry, Bryant, Marion & Johnstone, Greenville, S.C.
1942-1945 Officer, United States Naval Reserve
1946 Married Dorothy Merry Barkley
1950-1951 Alternate member, Regional Wage Stabilization Board
1957-1989 Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit; chief judge, 1964-1981; senior judge, 1981-1989
1965-1981 Member, United States Judicial Conference; Executive Committee member, 1970-1981; Bicentennial Committee co-chairman, 1975-1981
1969 Nominated, United States Supreme Court
1989, Nov. 22 Died, Greenville, S.C.
1914, Mar. 5 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1935 A.B., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1939-1942 Analyst, Security and Exchange Commission
1942-1945 Economist and statistician, War Production Board
1945-1948 Management research, Saks and Co., New York, N.Y.
1948 M.B.A., New York University, New York, N.Y.
1948-1951 Research economist, National Security Resources Board
1951-1953 Statistician, Defense Electric Power Administration
1953-1955 Instructor in management and retailing, Columbia University and City College of New York, New York, N.Y.
1955-1960 Writer, Atomic Energy Commission
1958 Ph.D., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1960-1962 Editorial specialist on nuclear power, Division of Public Information, International Atomic Energy Commission
1964 Published with John Lawrence and Bernard Manowitz Radioisotopes and Radiation (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co. 131 pp.)
1970-1971 Conducted special research and writing projects for Glenn Theodore Seaborg, chairman, Atomic Energy Commission
1971-1974 Speech writer, Atomic Energy Commission
1974-1976 Editor, Nuclear Regulatory Commission
1977 Writer and consultant
1981 Assisted Glenn Theodore Seaborg in writing Kennedy, Khrushchev and the Test Ban (Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press. 320 pp.)
1987 Assisted Glenn Theodore Seaborg in writing Stemming the Tide: Arms Control in the Johnson Years (Lexington, Mass.: Lexington Books. 495 pp.)
1995 Assisted Glenn Theodore Seaborg in writing The Atomic Energy Commission under Nixon: Adjusting to Troubled Times (New York: St. Martin's Press. 268 pp.)
1856, May 6 Born Sigismund Schlomo Freud, Freiberg, Moravia
1860 Moved with family to Vienna, Austria
1873 Graduated summa cum laude, Leopoldstädter Kommunal-Real-und Obergymansium, Vienna, Austria
1875 Changed first name to Sigmund
1876-1882 Conducted research on the nervous system at Ernst Brücke's Institute of Physiology, Vienna, Austria
1879-1880 Fulfilled compulsory military service
1881 M.D., University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
1882 Clinical assistant in Hermann Nothnagel's Department of Internal Medicine, General Hospital, Vienna, Austria
Met and became engaged to Martha Bernays
1883 Worked in Theodor Meynert's psychiatric clinic, General Hospital, Vienna, Austria
1884 Joined Department of Nervous Diseases, General Hospital, Vienna, Austria
Began studying the effects and potential medical uses of cocaine
1885 Appointed lecturer in neuropathology, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
Received grant to study neuropathology with Jean-Martin Charcot in Paris, France
1886 Established private practice, Vienna, Austria
Married Martha Bernays
1887 Began corresponding with Wilhelm Fliess
1889 Traveled to Nancy, France, to study Hippolyte Bernheim's hypnotic techniques
1891 Established residence and office at Bergasse 19, Vienna, Austria, where he would remain until 1938
1892 Treated “Elizabeth von R.” (Ilona Weiss) in what Freud described as his first full length analysis of hysteria
1895 Published with Josef Breuer Studien über Hysterie [Studies in Hysteria] (Leipzig: F. Deuticke. 269 pp.)
1896 First used the term “psychoanalysis”
1900 Published Die Traumdeutung [The Interpretation of Dreams] (Leipzig: F. Deuticke. 371 pp.)
1901 Published Zur Psychopathologie des Alltagslebens [Psychology of Everyday Life] (Berlin: S. Karger. 80 pp.)
1902 Founded the Psychologische Mittwoch-Gesellschaft (renamed the Wiener Psychoanalytische Vereinigung in 1908)
Appointed Professor Extraordinarius, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
1905 Published “Bruchstück einer Hysterie-Analyse” (“Dora” case study), Monatsschrift für Psychiatrie und Neurologie, 18:285-310
Published Der Witz und seine Beziehung zum Unbewussten [Jokes and Their Relation to the Unconscious] (Vienna: F. Deuticke. 205 pp.)
Published Drei Abhandlungen zur Sexualtheorie [Three Contributions to the Sexual Theory] (Leipzig: F. Deuticke. 83 pp.)
1908 First International Congress of Psychoanalysis, Salzburg, Austria
1909 Lectured on psychoanalysis at Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
Published “Analyse der Phobie eines fünfjährigen Knaben” (“Little Hans” case study), Jahrbuch für psychoanalytische und psychopathologische Forschungen, 1:1-109
Published “Bemerkungen über einen Fall von Zwangsneurose” (“Rat Man” case study), Jahrbuch für psychoanalytische und psychopathologische Forschungen, 1:357-421
1910 Published Über Psychoanalyse [The Origin and Development of Psychoanalysis] (Vienna: F. Deuticke. 62 pp.)
1912 Establishment of the “Committee,” a group composed of Freud's closest associates including Karl Abraham, Sándor Ferenczi, Ernest Jones, Otto Rank, and Hanns Sachs who consulted regularly on issues relating to Freud and the psychoanalytic movement
1913 Published Totem und Tabu: einige Übereinstimmungen im Seeleben der Wilden und der Neurotiker [Totem and Taboo] (Leipzig: H. Heller. 149 pp.)
1918 Published “Aus der Geschichte einer infantilen Neurose” (“Wolf-Man”case study), Sammlung kleiner Schriften zur Neurosenlehre IV (Vienna: F. Deuticke. 139 pp.)
1920 Published Jenseits des Lustprinzips [Beyond the Pleasure Principle] (Vienna: Internationaler Psychoanalytischer Verlag. 60 pp.)
1923 Diagnosed with cancer of the jaw and palate
Published Das Ich und das Es [The Ego and the Id] (Vienna: Internationaler Psychoanalytischer Verlag. 77 pp.)
1930 Awarded the Goethe Prize by the city of Frankfurt, Germany
Published Das Unbehagen in der Kultur [Civilization and Its Discontents] (Vienna: Internationaler Psychoanalytischer Verlag. 136 pp.)
1931 Bronze plaque erected by the city of Príbor, Czechoslovakia (formerly Freiberg, Moravia) at Freud's birthplace
1933 Published with Albert Einstein Warum Krieg? [Why War?] (Paris: International Institute of Intellectual Cooperation. 61 pp.)
1938 Left Vienna, Austria, and settled in London, England
1939 Published Der Mann Moses und die monotheistische Religion [Moses and Monotheism] (Amsterdam: A. de Lange. 241 pp.)
1939, Sept. 23 Died, London, England
1889, Apr. 15 Born, Crescent City, Fla.
1911 Moved to Harlem, New York, N.Y.
1912 Attended the College of the City of New York, New York, N.Y.
1914 Married Lucille E. Campbell (died 1963)
1917-1928 With Chandler Owen helped found, edit, and publish the Messenger
1918 Joined the Socialist Party
Arrested for speaking out against American participation in World War I, Cleveland, Ohio
1920 Organized the Friends of Negro Freedom
1925 Organized the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters
Called on President Calvin Coolidge to protest the lynching and plight of African Americans
1925-1968 International president, Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters
1935 Won the right to represent the sleeping car porters with the Pullman Co.
1936 Founding president, National Negro Congress
1937 Negotiated the first wage agreement with the Pullman Co.
1941 Organized the March on Washington Movement
Helped persuade President Franklin D. Roosevelt to issue Executive Order 8802 establishing the Fair Employment Practices Committee
1943 Helped persuade President Franklin D. Roosevelt to issue Executive Order 9346 establishing a new Fair Employment Practices Committee
1948 Encouraged President Harry S. Truman to issue Executive Orders 9980 and 9981 creating a Fair Employment Board and a President's Committee on Equality of Treatment and Opportunity in the Armed Services
1951 Conference with President Harry S. Truman led to Executive Order 10210 forbidding racial discrimination by government contractors
1953 Consultation between Randolph and other civil rights leaders and President Dwight D. Eisenhower led to Executive Order 10479 reconstituting the contract compliance agency and placing it under the chairmanship of the vice president
1955 Advised President Dwight D. Eisenhower to issue Executive Order 10590 establishing the President's Committee on Government Policy to enforce a nondiscrimination policy in federal employment
Persuaded the AFL-CIO to outlaw racial discrimination
1957-1968 Vice president, AFL-CIO
1959 Founded the Negro American Labor Council
1963 National director, March on Washington
1964 Established the A. Philip Randolph Institute
Awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
1964-1968 Influenced the passage of legislation establishing the civil rights and the voting rights acts
1966 Chairman, White House Conference "To Fulfill These Rights"
1979, May 16 Died, New York, N.Y.
1842, Oct. 28 Born, Philadelphia, Pa.
1859-1860 Taught school
1861 Delivered her first full-length lecture, Concert Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.
Employee, United States Mint, Philadelphia, Pa.
1862 Spoke in New England at invitation of William Lloyd Garrison
1863 Campaigned for the Republican Party in Middle Atlantic states and New England
1865-1875 National lyceum movement lecturer
1868 Published What Answer? (Boston: Ticknor and Fields. 301pp.)
1869 Traveled to California on the transcontinental railroad
1872 Campaigned for Horace Greeley for president
1876 Debut at New Globe Theatre, Boston, Mass.
1879 Published A Ragged Register of People, Places and Opinions (New York: Harper & Brothers. 286pp.)
1888 Campaigned for the Republican Party in the Midwest
1891 Committed to State Hospital for the Insane, Danville, Pa.
1895-1901 Waged libel suits against authorities responsible for her commitment to a hospital for the insane
1895-1932 Lived with George and Sallie Ackley, Goshen, N.Y.
1932, Oct. 22 Died, Goshen, N.Y.
1828, Oct. 29 Born, Wilmington, Del.
1851 Admitted to the Delaware bar
1853-1854 United States district attorney for Delaware
1854-1857 Practiced law, Philadelphia, Pa.
1856 Married Louise Lee (died 1886)
1856-1869 Practiced law, Wilmington, Del.
1869-1885 United States senator
1872 Delegate to the Democratic Party national convention, Baltimore, Md.
1876 Candidate for Democratic Party presidential nomination
1877 Appointed a member of the Electoral Commission by act of Congress to decide the contests in various states in the presidential election of 1876
1880 Candidate for Democratic Party presidential nomination
1881 Elected president pro tempore of the Senate
1884 Candidate for Democratic Party presidential nomination
1885-1889 Secretary of state
1889 Married Mary W. Clymer
1893-1897 Ambassador to Great Britain
1898, Sept. 28 Died, Dedham, Mass.
1919, Mar. 7 Born, Wewoka, Okla.
1939 Graduated, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa
1942 Married Charles O. Stout (1907-1988)
1944-1945 Secretary to Charles H. Houston of Houston, Houston and Hastie law firm, Washington, D.C.
1949 Graduated, Indiana University School of Law, Bloomington, Ind.
1949-1955 Administrative secretary to William H. Hastie, U. S. Court of Appeals
1955-1959 Private practice, Philadelphia, Pa.
1956-1959 Assistant district attorney, Philadelphia, Pa.
1959-1968 Judge, Municipal Court, Philadelphia County, Pa.
1968-1988 Judge, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pa.
1988-1989 Justice, supreme court of Pennsylvania
1989-1998 Senior judge, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, Pa.
1998, Aug. 21 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
1909, July 3 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1933 B.A., Hunter College, New York, N.Y.
1935 M.A., School for the Stage, New York, N.Y.
Cofounder, American Actors Company, New York, N.Y.
1939 Married Nathan Kroll (divorced 1974)
1940-1944 Story analyst, Warner Brothers Studio
Cofounder, Hollywood Theatre Alliance and Hollywood Music Alliance, Hollywood, Calif.
1944 Instructor and faculty advisor, Hunter College, New York, N.Y.
1945 Agent, Sam Jaffe Agency, New York, N.Y., branch
1947 Established Lucy Kroll Agency, New York, N.Y.
1985 Member, Hall of Fame, Hunter College, New York, N.Y.
1993 Received Living Legacy Award, Women's International Center, San Diego, Calif.
1994 Sold Lucy Kroll Agency to Barbara Hogenson
1997, Mar. 14 Died, Glendale, Mass.
1816, May 3 Born, Augusta, Ga.
1832 Entered United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1837 Second lieutenant, Corps of Engineers
Surveyed Upper Mississippi River
1838 Survey engineering work, Delaware River
1839 Duty at army headquarters, Washington, D.C.
1841 Married Louisa Rodgers (died 1879)
1843-1852 Stationed in Detroit, Mich., until return to permanent duty in Washington, D.C.
1852 Supervised construction of the Washington aqueduct for Great Falls, Va., and various United States Capitol improvements, including a new and larger dome
1861, June Appointed quartermaster general, United States Army
1865, Apr. 15 Present at the death of Abraham Lincoln
1867 Postwar illness and trip to Europe
1882 Retired from the United States Army
Began engineering work on the Pension Office building, Washington, D.C.
1892, Jan. 2 Died, Washington, D.C.
1831, Mar. 6 Born, Albany, N.Y.
1853 Graduated, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1854-1855 Frontier duty at Fort Duncan, La Pena, and Turkey Creek, Tex.
1855-1861 Frontier duty in the Oregon and Washington territories
1861-1862 Chief quartermaster and chief commissary of the Army of the Southwest
1862 Promoted to colonel, U.S. Volunteers
Commanded Second Michigan Cavalry, Volunteers
Commanded Second Brigade, Cavalry Division, Army of the Mississippi
Promoted to brigadier general, U.S. Volunteers
Commanded Eleventh Division, Third Corps, Army of the Ohio
Commanded Third Division, Right Wing, Fourteenth Army Corps
Promoted to major general, U.S. Volunteers
1863 Commanded Third Division, Twentieth Army Corps, Army of the Cumberland
1863-1864 Commanded Second Division, Fourth Army Corps
1864 Commanded Cavalry Corps, Army of the Potomac
Promoted to brigadier general, U.S. Army
1865 Commanded Army of the Shenandoah
Commanded Middle Military Division
Promoted to major general, U.S. Army
Commanded all U.S. forces west of the Mississippi River
1865-1866 Commanded Military Division of the Gulf
1866-1867 Commanded Department of the Gulf
1867 Commanded Fifth Military District
1867-1869 Commanded Department of the Missouri
1869-1878 Commanded Military Division of the Missouri
1869 Promoted to lieutenant general, U.S. Army
1870 Inspected military posts in northern Utah and Montana
1870-1871 United States official observer of the Franco-Prussian War
1875 Married Irene Rucker
1877 Led Yellowstone expedition
1878-1883 Commanded Western and Southwestern Military Division
1883 Escorted Chester A. Arthur, Robert Todd Lincoln, and others on an expedition through Yellowstone Park
1883-1888 Commanding general, U.S. Army, succeeding William T. Sherman
1888 Published Personal Memoirs of P. H. Sheridan. New York: C. L. Webster. 2 vols.
Promoted to general, U.S. Army
1888, Aug. 5 Died, Nonquit, Mass.
1828, Nov. 30 Born, Windsor, Broome County, N.Y.
1846 Graduated from Windsor Academy, New Windsor, N.Y.
1846-1847 Taught school, Lykens Valley, Pa.
1847 Walking tour, Cumberland Valley of Maryland and Pennsylvania and Shenandoah Valley, Va.
Tutored in home of Daniel Forrer, Luray, Va.
Founded Mossy Creek Academy, Augusta County, Va.
1853 Married Sara Anne Comfort
1858 Resigned as headmaster of Mossy Creek Academy, Augusta County, Va., and organized Loch Willow School for Boys at Churchville, Augusta County, Va.
1861 Reported for military duty as topographical engineer with the Army of Northwest Virginia near Parkersburg, Va.
Engaged in mapping operations in vicinity of Rich Mountain, W. Va.
1862 Assigned as topographical engineer with Stonewall Jackson's staff near Woodstock, Va.; began mapping Shenandoah Valley from Potomac River to Lexington, Va.
Guided Jeb Stuart's troops from Sharpsburg to Shepherdstown, Va.
1862, Dec. Staff duty at Fredericksburg, Va.
1862-1863 In winter quarters with Stonewall Jackson at Moss Neck, Va.
1863, Apr-May Night reconnaissance and mapping operations for Chancellorsville; assigned to staff of Richard Ewell after death of Stonewall Jackson,
1863, July Observed troop movements from Seminary Ridge at Gettysburg, Pa.
1864, Mar.-May Engaged in mapping duties during Wilderness Campaign and Second Cold Harbor
1864, Oct. Drew maps for Cedar Creek engagement against Philip Sheridan
1864-1865 In winter quarters at Staunton, Va.
1865 Paroled in Staunton, Va.
Organized “select school for sons of fellow soldiers,” Churchville, Va.
Established office as mining engineer, Staunton, Va.
1867 Published with William Allan The Battle-Fields of Virginia. Chancellorsville... New York: D. Van Nostrand
1870-1871 Acting superintendent of schools, Augusta County, Va.
1872-1875 Spent winters in England and Scotland
1873 Began survey of Great Flat-Top Coal Range in West Virginia
1876 Published Virginia; a Geographical and Political Summary, Richmond, Va.: R. F. Walker, Superintendent of Public Printing
1877 Published Hotchkiss' Geography of Virginia, Richmond, Va.: A. Hoen
1878 Appointed expert special agent of the census for Virginia
1880 Began six-year publication of The Virginias, a periodical promoting the state's resources
1882 Purchased large coal tract on Cabin Creek, Kanawha Valley, W. Va.
1884 Served as Virginia commissioner at World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition, New Orleans, La.
Ran as independent Congressional candidate from 10th District of Virginia
1893 Served as judge for mining exhibits at World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, Ill.
1894 Headed antisaloon campaign, Staunton, Va.
1899, Jan. 17 Died, Staunton, Va.
1899 Posthumous publication of Virginia, [Atlanta]: Confederate Publishing Company, Vol. 3 of Confederate Military History
1934, Aug. 10 Born, New York, N.Y.
1951-1954 Part-time copy-editor, Bell Syndicate, New York, N.Y.
1956 A.B. degree, Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.
Photoengraving apprentice, Williston Engraving, Milwaukee, Wis.
1956-1957 Part-time copyboy, Milwaukee Sentinel, Milwaukee, Wis.
1957 Married Rosemary Schalk
1957-1959 Reporter, Worcester Telegram, Worcester, Mass.
1959-1963 Reporter, Miami Herald, Miami, Fla.
1962 M.A. degree, Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis.
1963-2004 Reporter, Washington Post, Washington, D.C.
1967 Byline award, Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wis
1977 American Bar Association certificate of merit
1991-2002 Board member, chairman, The Fund for Investigative Journalism
1993 Pulitzer Prize for series on the stalking and murder in Boston, Mass., of his daughter, Kristin Lardner
1995 Published The Stalking of Kristin: A Father Investigates the Murder of His Daughter (New York: Atlantic Monthly Press. 340 pp.)
1869, Nov. 5 Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1891 Graduated, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1894 Graduated, Cincinnati Law School, Cincinnati, Ohio
1891 Elected to the Cincinnati Board of Education, Cincinnati, Ohio
1899-1901 Member, Ohio state house of representatives
1901-1903 Member, Ohio state senate
1903-1913 Represented 1st District of Ohio in the United States Congress
1906 Married Alice Lee Roosevelt
1915-1931 Represented 1st District of Ohio in the United States Congress
1923-1925 Republican Party floor leader, United States House of Representatives
1925-1932 Speaker, United States House of Representatives
1931, Apr. 9 Died, Aiken, S.C.
1861, Oct. 12 Born, Cleveland, Ohio
1901 Member, governing body American Red Cross
1903-1904 Disagreement with Clara Barton resulted in Barton’s resignation from the American Red Cross
1905 Head, American Red Cross, after reorganization
Wrote, with John W. Foster, new charter for American Red Cross
1915 Published Under the Red Cross Flag at Home and Abroad. Philadelphia, J. B.Lippincott
1920 Appointed a commissioner, District of Columbia
1921-1944 National secretary, American Red Cross
1922-1939 Director, Office of Volunteer Service (United States)
1944 Retired from American Red Cross
1946, Mar. 17 Died, Washington D.C.
1758, Oct.7 Born, New London, Conn.
1776 Graduated Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1779 Admitted to bar, commenced law practice, New London, Conn.
1784-1785 Member, Connecticut House of Representatives, Hartford, Conn.
1785 Married Ann Boradill Hallam (Nancy)
1789-1790 Member, Connecticut House of Representatives, Hartford, Conn.
1792-1793 Member, Connecticut House of Representatives, Hartford, Conn.; speaker of the house in 1793
1793-1798 Member, United States House of Representatives, Philadelphia, Pa.
1798, Sept. 5 Died, New London, Conn.
Charles Denby (1830-1904)
1830, June 16 Born, Mount Joy, Va.
1850 Graduated, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Va.
1855 Admitted to the Indiana bar; began practicing law in Evansville, Ind.
1858 Married Martha Fitch
1861 Appointed lieutenant colonel, 42nd Indiana Volunteers
1862 Engaged in battle of Perryville, Ky.
Appointed colonel, 80th Indiana Volunteers
1863 Resigned from military
1876 Delegate to Democratic National Convention, St. Louis, Mo.
1884 Delegate to Democratic National Convention, Chicago, Ill.
1885-1898 United States minister to China
1898 Named to United States Commission Appointed by the President to Investigate the Conduct of the War Department in the War with Spain
1899 Appointed to United States Philippine Commission
Visited Philippines
1904, Jan. 13 Died, Jamestown, N. Y.
1906 Posthumous publication of China and Her People (Boston: L. C. Page and Co. 2 vols.)
Charles Denby (1861-1938)
1861, Nov. 14 Born, Evansville, Ind.
1882 Graduated, College of New Jersey, Princeton, N. J. (now Princeton University)
1885-1893 Second secretary, United States legation, Peking (now known as Beijing), China
1893-1897 First secretary, United States legation, Peking (now known as Beijing), China
1895 Married Martha Dalzell Orr
1897-1900 In business with Arnhold, Karberg and Co., Tientsin (now known as Tianjin), China
1900 Appointed secretary general of provisional government, Tientsin (now known as Tianjin), China
1902-1905 Foreign advisor to viceroy of Chilhi Province (now known as Zhili Province), China
1905-1907 Chief clerk, State Department, Washington, D. C.
1907-1909 United States consul general, Shanghai, China
1909-1915 United States consul general, Vienna, Austria
1915-1917 Vice president, Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Mich.
1917 Director, Bureau of Foreign Agents, War Trade Board, Washington, D. C.
1918 Special representative, State Department, Japan and China
1922-1923 Special representative, United States Shipping Board, Japan and China
1938, Feb. 14 Died, Washington, D. C.
Edwin Denby
1870, Feb. 18 Born, Evansville, Ind.
1887-1894 Served in Chinese Maritime Customs Service
1896 Received law degree, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Started law practice, Detroit, Mich.
1898 Gunner’s mate, Yosemite (auxiliary cruiser)
1903 Elected to Michigan House of Representatives
1905-1911 Republican congressman, Michigan First District, United States House of Representatives
1911 Married Marion Bartlett Thurber
1917 Enlisted in United States Marine Corps.
1920-1921 Chief probation officer, Recorder’s Court, City of Detroit, Mich., and Circuit Court of Wayne County, Mich.
1921-1924 Secretary of the navy; resigned following Teapot Dome affair
1929 Died, Detroit, Mich.
Charles Denby (1830-1904)
1830, June 16 Born, Mount Joy, Va.
1850 Graduated, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Va.
1855 Admitted to the Indiana bar; began practicing law in Evansville, Ind.
1858 Married Martha Fitch
1861 Appointed lieutenant colonel, 42nd Indiana Volunteers
1862 Engaged in battle of Perryville, Ky.
Appointed colonel, 80th Indiana Volunteers
1863 Resigned from military
1876 Delegate to Democratic National Convention, St. Louis, Mo.
1884 Delegate to Democratic National Convention, Chicago, Ill.
1885-1898 United States minister to China
1898 Named to United States Commission Appointed by the President to Investigate the Conduct of the War Department in the War with Spain
1899 Appointed to United States Philippine Commission
Visited Philippines
1904, Jan. 13 Died, Jamestown, N. Y.
1906 Posthumous publication of China and Her People (Boston: L. C. Page and Co. 2 vols.)
Charles Denby (1861-1938)
1861, Nov. 14 Born, Evansville, Ind.
1882 Graduated, College of New Jersey, Princeton, N. J. (now Princeton University)
1885-1893 Second secretary, United States legation, Peking (now known as Beijing), China
1893-1897 First secretary, United States legation, Peking (now known as Beijing), China
1895 Married Martha Dalzell Orr
1897-1900 In business with Arnhold, Karberg and Co., Tientsin (now known as Tianjin), China
1900 Appointed secretary general of provisional government, Tientsin (now known as Tianjin), China
1902-1905 Foreign advisor to viceroy of Chilhi Province (now known as Zhili Province), China
1905-1907 Chief clerk, State Department, Washington, D. C.
1907-1909 United States consul general, Shanghai, China
1909-1915 United States consul general, Vienna, Austria
1915-1917 Vice president, Hupp Motor Car Corp., Detroit, Mich.
1917 Director, Bureau of Foreign Agents, War Trade Board, Washington, D. C.
1918 Special representative, State Department, Japan and China
1922-1923 Special representative, United States Shipping Board, Japan and China
1938, Feb. 14 Died, Washington, D. C.
Edwin Denby
1870, Feb. 18 Born, Evansville, Ind.
1887-1894 Served in Chinese Maritime Customs Service
1896 Received law degree, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Started law practice, Detroit, Mich.
1898 Gunner’s mate, Yosemite (auxiliary cruiser)
1903 Elected to Michigan House of Representatives
1905-1911 Republican congressman, Michigan First District, United States House of Representatives
1911 Married Marion Bartlett Thurber
1917 Enlisted in United States Marine Corps.
1920-1921 Chief probation officer, Recorder’s Court, City of Detroit, Mich., and Circuit Court of Wayne County, Mich.
1921-1924 Secretary of the navy; resigned following Teapot Dome affair
1929 Died, Detroit, Mich.
David Porter
1780, Feb. 1 Born, Boston, Mass.
1798 Appointed midshipman, United States Navy
Duty on Constellation (frigate)
1799 Duty on Experiment (schooner), West India Squadron
1801 Duty on Enterprize (schooner), Tripolitan War
1803 Duty on Philadelphia (frigate), Tripolitan War
1803-1805 Prisoner of war, Tripoli
1808 Married Evelina Anderson
1808-1810 Commandant, New Orleans Naval Station
1811-1814 Commanded Essex (frigate)
1812 Promoted to captain
1815 Published Journal of a Cruise Made to the Pacific Ocean. Philadelphia: Bradford & Inskeep
1815-1823 Commissioner, Navy Board
1823-1825 Commander in chief, West India Squadron
1825 Published An Exposition of the Facts and Circumstances Which Justified the Expedition to Foxardo. Washington: Printed by Davis & Force
1826 Resigned from United States Navy
1826-1829 Commander in chief, Mexican Navy
1830 Appointed United States consul general, Algiers
1831 Appointed United States chargé d’affaires, Turkey
1835 Published Constantinople and Its Environs. New York: Harper. 2 vols.
1839 Appointed United States Minister, Turkey
1843, Mar. 3 Died, Pera, Constantinople
David Dixon Porter
1813, June 8 Born, Chester, Pa.
1827 Appointed midshipman, Mexican Navy
1829 Appointed midshipman, United States Navy
Duty on Constellation (frigate), Mediterranean Station
1839 Married George Ann Patterson
1842 Duty on Congress (frigate)
1847 Duty on Spitfire (side-wheel gunboat)
1849 Commanded Panama (steamer)
1850-1853 Commanded Georgia (steamer)
1855 Commanded Supply (ship)
1857 Duty at the Portsmouth Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Va.
1861 Commanded Powhatan (side-wheel steamer)
1863 Commander, Mississippi Squadron
Promoted to rear admiral
1864 Commander, North Atlantic Blockading Squadron
1865-1869 Superintendent, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1866 Promoted to vice admiral
1866-1867 Diplomatic mission to Santo Domingo
1870 Promoted to admiral
1875 Published Memoir of Commodore David Porter. Albany, N.Y.: J. Munsell
1877-1891 Chairman, Naval Board of Inspection
1885 Published The Adventures of Harry Marline. New York: D. Appleton
Published Allan Dare and Robert le Diable. New York: D. Appleton. 2 vols.
Published Incidents and Anecdotes of the Civil War. New York: D. Appleton
1886 Published The Naval History of the Civil War. New York: Sherman Publishing Co.
1889 Published Arthur Merton. New York: D. Appleton
1891, Feb. 13 Died, Washington, D.C.
David Porter
1780, Feb. 1 Born, Boston, Mass.
1798 Appointed midshipman, United States Navy
Duty on Constellation (frigate)
1799 Duty on Experiment (schooner), West India Squadron
1801 Duty on Enterprize (schooner), Tripolitan War
1803 Duty on Philadelphia (frigate), Tripolitan War
1803-1805 Prisoner of war, Tripoli
1808 Married Evelina Anderson
1808-1810 Commandant, New Orleans Naval Station
1811-1814 Commanded Essex (frigate)
1812 Promoted to captain
1815 Published Journal of a Cruise Made to the Pacific Ocean. Philadelphia: Bradford & Inskeep
1815-1823 Commissioner, Navy Board
1823-1825 Commander in chief, West India Squadron
1825 Published An Exposition of the Facts and Circumstances Which Justified the Expedition to Foxardo. Washington: Printed by Davis & Force
1826 Resigned from United States Navy
1826-1829 Commander in chief, Mexican Navy
1830 Appointed United States consul general, Algiers
1831 Appointed United States chargé d’affaires, Turkey
1835 Published Constantinople and Its Environs. New York: Harper. 2 vols.
1839 Appointed United States Minister, Turkey
1843, Mar. 3 Died, Pera, Constantinople
David Dixon Porter
1813, June 8 Born, Chester, Pa.
1827 Appointed midshipman, Mexican Navy
1829 Appointed midshipman, United States Navy
Duty on Constellation (frigate), Mediterranean Station
1839 Married George Ann Patterson
1842 Duty on Congress (frigate)
1847 Duty on Spitfire (side-wheel gunboat)
1849 Commanded Panama (steamer)
1850-1853 Commanded Georgia (steamer)
1855 Commanded Supply (ship)
1857 Duty at the Portsmouth Navy Yard, Portsmouth, Va.
1861 Commanded Powhatan (side-wheel steamer)
1863 Commander, Mississippi Squadron
Promoted to rear admiral
1864 Commander, North Atlantic Blockading Squadron
1865-1869 Superintendent, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1866 Promoted to vice admiral
1866-1867 Diplomatic mission to Santo Domingo
1870 Promoted to admiral
1875 Published Memoir of Commodore David Porter. Albany, N.Y.: J. Munsell
1877-1891 Chairman, Naval Board of Inspection
1885 Published The Adventures of Harry Marline. New York: D. Appleton
Published Allan Dare and Robert le Diable. New York: D. Appleton. 2 vols.
Published Incidents and Anecdotes of the Civil War. New York: D. Appleton
1886 Published The Naval History of the Civil War. New York: Sherman Publishing Co.
1889 Published Arthur Merton. New York: D. Appleton
1891, Feb. 13 Died, Washington, D.C.
1873, July 8 Born, Vallejo, Calif.
1896 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1901 Married Antoinette Merritt
1908 Served as gunnery officer, South Carolina (battleship)
1915 Attended Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1916-1918 Commanded Sacramento (gunboat)
1918 Commanded United States Naval Aviation Forces in Europe
1919-1921 Director of naval aviation; ordered conversion of theJupiter (collier) into the Langley (aircraft carrier)
1922 Commanded Destroyer Squadron Fifteen in early charting of Atlantic Ocean floor using sound equipment
1923 Defended Edward H. Watson in court-martial resulting from mass shipwreck at Point Honda, Calif.
1927-1928 Director of naval communications
1928 Promoted to rear admiral; commanded Great Lakes Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, Ill.
1929-1931 Commander, Yangtze Patrol, China
1931-1933 Chief coordinator, Federal Coordinating Service, Bureau of the Budget
1935 Commander, Battleship Division One
1937 Commandant, Thirteenth Naval District, Bremerton, Wash.
1937 Retired from active naval service
1942-1946 Recalled to active duty; superintendent, New York State Maritime Academy, Fort Schuyler, N.Y.
1950, Apr. 5 Died, St. Albans, N.Y.
1738, June 9 Born, Salem Village, later Danvers, Mass.
circa 1756 Practiced medicine, Gloucester, Mass.
1758 Married Mary Warner
Returned to medical practice, Danvers, Mass.
1768-1776 Member, Massachusetts General Court
1774 Represented Danvers in Essex County, Mass., convention
1775 Represented Essex County, Mass., in Provincial Congress; appointed to Committee of Safety
1778-1780 Massachusetts delegate, Continental Congress
1781 Signer, Articles of Confederation
Incorporator, Massachusetts Medical Society
1782-1787 Massachusetts delegate, Continental Congress
1785 Joined with Elbridge Gerry and Rufus King in refusing to present to Congress the Massachusetts Resolves requesting revision of the Articles of Confederation
1788 Anti-federalist delegate to Massachusetts convention on the Constitution
1793-1795 Member, United States House of Representatives
1796-1815 Judge of probate, Essex County, Mass.
1812-1813 One of early founders of temperance movement in Massachusetts
1816, Jan. 2 Died, Danvers, Mass.
1891, Nov. 5 Born, Cerro Gordo, Ill.
1913-1919 Attended Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1917-1965 Correspondent, United Press International
1924 Married Kathleen Hargrave
1936 Passenger correspondent, Pan American Airways inaugural transpacific China Clipper press flight, Alameda, Calif., to Manilla, Philippines
1939 Passenger correspondent, Pan American Airways inaugural transatlantic Yankee Clipper press flight, New York, N.Y., to Marseilles, France
1941-1944 Press director, Office of Inter-American Affairs, State Department
1944-1945 Information officer, assistant secretary of state for American republics
1982, Apr. Died, Ithaca, N.Y.
William H. Simons
1881, Oct. 2 Born, Columbia, S.C.
circa 1900-1917 Attended intermittently Benedict College, Columbia, S.C. and Virginia Union College, Richmond, Va.
1918 International secretary, Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), East African Expeditionary Force, British Army, Dar-es-Salaam, East Africa
1919-1922 International YMCA secretary, Delhi, India, and Rangoon, Burma
1922-1924 Headmaster, American Baptist Foreign Mission School, Myingyan, Burma
1925-1926 Lecturer, Washington, D.C., and Virginia
Instructor, Virginia Union College, Richmond, Va.
1927-1930 Attended Gordon College, Wenham, Mass.
1930 Bachelor of divinity, Gordon College, Wenham, Mass.
Ordained, Boston, Mass.
1930-1938 Baptist missionary and teacher, Ogbomosho, Nigeria
1938, Mar. 31 Died, Ogbomosho, Nigeria
1901, Nov. 18 Born, Jefferson, Iowa
1928 Ph.D., University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa
1929-1937 Professor of journalism and advertising, Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., and Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1932-1947 Director of research, Young & Rubicam Advertising Agency, New York, N.Y.
1935-1984 Founder and director, American Institute of Public Opinion
1964 Wrote The Miracle Ahead. New York: Harper and Row
1984, July 25 Died, Tschingel, Switzerland
1823, Mar. 23 Born, New York, N.Y.
1836 Moved with family to Indiana
1844 Married Evelyn Clark (died 1863)
Purchased an interest in the South Bend, Ind., Free Press, changed its name to the St. Joseph Valley Register, and made it the Whig organ of northern Indiana
1855-1869 Member, House of Representatives
1868 Married Ellen W. Wade
1869-1873 Vice president of the United States
1873 Implicated in the Credit Mobilier of American scandal
1873-1885 Public lecturer
1855, Jan. 13 Died, Mankato, Minn.
1891, May 29 Born, Marlette, Mich.
1915 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1915-1919 Served aboard New York (battleship)
1919-1921 Served aboard New Mexico(battleship)
Aide to Admiral Hugh Rodman, commander in chief, United States Pacific Fleet
1921-1922 Served aboard destroyers Burns,Babbitt, and Zeilin
1922 Executive officer, Ramapo (fuel oil tanker)
1923-1924 Attended Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1924-1926 Commanded Bittern (mine sweeper)
1926-1929 Assigned to judge advocate general
1929 Received bachelor of law degree, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1929-1931 Aide and flag secretary to the commander, special service squadron operating in Central American waters
1932-1934 Aide to Orin G. Murfin, judge advocate general
1934 Received master of law degree, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1934-1936 Navigator, Astoria (cruiser)
1936-1937 Executive officer of naval station and aide for civil administration, Guam
1938-1940 Executive officer, Pennsylvania (battleship)
1941 Aide to Harold R. Stark, chief of naval operations
Naval secretary at the first meetings of the Combined Chiefs of Staff
1942-1943 Naval aide to President Franklin D. Roosevelt
1943-1944 Commanded Iowa (battleship)
1944-1945 Commanded Cruiser Division One in attacks on Japanese installations in the Aleutian and Kurile islands
1946 Deputy chief of naval operations
1948-1949 Deputy commander, United States Pacific Fleet
1949-1952 Director of staff, Personnel Policy Board, United States Navy
1952-1953 Commander, First Naval District
1953 Retired from Navy
Vice-president for client relations, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.
1966 Retired from John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.
1990, Jan. 25 Died, Needham, Mass.
1853, Dec. 25 Born, Harrisburg, Pa.
1895-1896 Studied plant biology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1897 Chairman, Program Committee, Pennsylvania Federation of Women's Clubs
1898-circa 1932 Cofounder and member, Civic Club, Harrisburg, Pa.
1899 Invited by the Metropolitian Public Gardens Association of London, England, to present paper to the horticultural section, International Congress of Women, London, England
Representated the State Federation of Pennsylvania Women and City Parks Association of Philadelphia, Pa., at the International Congress of Women, London, England
Studied forestry and urban arboriculture in England and Germany under auspices of the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture
1901-1913 First female member, State Forestry Reservation Commission of Pennsylvania
1903-1929 Teacher, Pennsylvania State Forest Academy, Mont Alto, Pa.
1904-1913 Chairman of forestry, State Federation of Pennsylvania Women
1910 Vice-chairman, Conservation Committee, General Federation of Women's Clubs
1911 Member, Advisory Committee, Pennsylvania State Branch of the National Conservation Association
1912 Member, Board of Directors, Pennsylvania School of Horticulture for Women, Ambler, Pa.
1914-circa 1924 Chairman, Forestry Committee, General Federation of Women's Clubs
1945, July 11 Died near Cashtown, Pa.
Edwin Markham
1852, Apr. 23 Born Charles Edward Anson Markham, Oregon City, Oregon Territory
1857-1870 Attended school in Suisan and Santa Clara valleys, Calif.
circa1870 Obtained teaching certificate, California College, Vacaville, Calif.
1872 Graduated, San Jose Normal School, San Jose, Calif.
1874 Attended Christian College, Santa Rosa, Calif.
1875 Married Annie Cox (divorced 1884)
1875-1899 Teacher, principal, and school superintendent in Southern California
1880 Published "The Gulf of Night"
1887 Married Caroline E. Bailey (divorced)
1898 Married Anna Catherine Murphy (died 1938)
1899 Published "The Man with the Hoe," San Francisco Examiner
Published The Man with the Hoe. New York: Doxey's
circa 1900 Moved to New York, N.Y.
1901 Published Lincoln and Other Poems. New York: McClure, Phillips
1902 Met Florence Hamilton, later his confidential secretary and lecture manager
1910 Charter member, Poetry Society of America
1914 Published with Benjamin B. Lindsey and George Creel Children in Bondage. New York: Hearst's International Library
Published California the Wonderful. New York: Hearst's International Library
1915 Published The Shoes of Happiness, and Other Poems. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page
1920 Published Gates of Paradise and Other Poems. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page
1921-1940 Poet laureate of Oregon
1922 Read "Lincoln, Man of the People" at dedication of Lincoln Memorial, Washington, D.C.
1925 Published Foundation Stones of Success. Chicago: Howard-Severance Co.
1926 Publication of "The Ballad of the Gallows Bird," Century Magazine
1927 Published The Book of Poetry. New York: W. H. Wise
1929 Elected to the Academy of Arts and Letters
1930 Published Songs and Stories. Los Angeles: Powell Publishing Co.
1932 Published New Poems: Eighty Songs at Eighty. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Doran.
1933 Awarded honorary Literary Doctorate, St. Lawrence University, Canton, N.Y.
1936 Lecture tour in Mexico
1937 Published The Star of Araby. Stapleton, N.Y.: J. Willig Press
Awarded $5,000 prize by Academy of American Poets
Declared mentally incompetent by a court in New York
1938 Recorded "Edwin Markham Himself," a phonograph album of his principal poems
1940, Mar. 7 Died, Staten Island, N.Y.
Florence Hamilton
1873, July 20 Born Florence Danforth, Upper Jay, N.Y.
circa 1890 Married Ernest Hamilton
circa 1920-1936 Confidential secretary and lecture manager for Edwin Markham
1930s-1950s Member and elected official, National League of American Pen Women, Poetry Forum, and Congress of American Poets
Lecturer on poetry
1934 Founding member, Academy of American Poets
1936 Dean of women, Summer School of Poetry, National University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico
1939 Published A Moment's Monument. New York: Klein-Heimbinder Co.
1942 Published Mirrors and Human Voices. Prairie City, Ill.: James A. Decker Press
1968, Apr. 14 Died, Richmond, Va.
Edwin Markham
1852, Apr. 23 Born Charles Edward Anson Markham, Oregon City, Oregon Territory
1857-1870 Attended school in Suisan and Santa Clara valleys, Calif.
circa1870 Obtained teaching certificate, California College, Vacaville, Calif.
1872 Graduated, San Jose Normal School, San Jose, Calif.
1874 Attended Christian College, Santa Rosa, Calif.
1875 Married Annie Cox (divorced 1884)
1875-1899 Teacher, principal, and school superintendent in Southern California
1880 Published "The Gulf of Night"
1887 Married Caroline E. Bailey (divorced)
1898 Married Anna Catherine Murphy (died 1938)
1899 Published "The Man with the Hoe," San Francisco Examiner
Published The Man with the Hoe. New York: Doxey's
circa 1900 Moved to New York, N.Y.
1901 Published Lincoln and Other Poems. New York: McClure, Phillips
1902 Met Florence Hamilton, later his confidential secretary and lecture manager
1910 Charter member, Poetry Society of America
1914 Published with Benjamin B. Lindsey and George Creel Children in Bondage. New York: Hearst's International Library
Published California the Wonderful. New York: Hearst's International Library
1915 Published The Shoes of Happiness, and Other Poems. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page
1920 Published Gates of Paradise and Other Poems. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page
1921-1940 Poet laureate of Oregon
1922 Read "Lincoln, Man of the People" at dedication of Lincoln Memorial, Washington, D.C.
1925 Published Foundation Stones of Success. Chicago: Howard-Severance Co.
1926 Publication of "The Ballad of the Gallows Bird," Century Magazine
1927 Published The Book of Poetry. New York: W. H. Wise
1929 Elected to the Academy of Arts and Letters
1930 Published Songs and Stories. Los Angeles: Powell Publishing Co.
1932 Published New Poems: Eighty Songs at Eighty. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Doran.
1933 Awarded honorary Literary Doctorate, St. Lawrence University, Canton, N.Y.
1936 Lecture tour in Mexico
1937 Published The Star of Araby. Stapleton, N.Y.: J. Willig Press
Awarded $5,000 prize by Academy of American Poets
Declared mentally incompetent by a court in New York
1938 Recorded "Edwin Markham Himself," a phonograph album of his principal poems
1940, Mar. 7 Died, Staten Island, N.Y.
Florence Hamilton
1873, July 20 Born Florence Danforth, Upper Jay, N.Y.
circa 1890 Married Ernest Hamilton
circa 1920-1936 Confidential secretary and lecture manager for Edwin Markham
1930s-1950s Member and elected official, National League of American Pen Women, Poetry Forum, and Congress of American Poets
Lecturer on poetry
1934 Founding member, Academy of American Poets
1936 Dean of women, Summer School of Poetry, National University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico
1939 Published A Moment's Monument. New York: Klein-Heimbinder Co.
1942 Published Mirrors and Human Voices. Prairie City, Ill.: James A. Decker Press
1968, Apr. 14 Died, Richmond, Va.
1910, Jan. 28 Born, Brooklyn, N. Y.
1928 A.B., College of the City of New York (later City College of the City University of New York), New York, N.Y.
1929-1931 Apprenticeship, Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theatre, New York, N.Y.
1931 Broadway debut, Wonder Boy, Alvin Theatre, New York, N.Y.
1933 Married Stella Reynolds
1933-1940 Instructor, Speech and Theatre Department, Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1934 A.M., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1940 First major role on Broadway, The Fifth Column, Alvin Theatre, New York, N.Y.
1946 Film debut, Temptation
1954-1974 Appeared in programs of dramatic readings and performances as part of the Gertrude Clarke Whittall Poetry and Literature Series, Library of Congress
1957-1958 Adapted, coproduced, and acted in George Bernard Shaw's Back to Methuselah on tour and on Broadway, New York, N.Y.
1959 Founded, directed, and starred in Shakespeare Festival Players, a touring repertory company
1961 American specialist in theater, Department of State, Central America and South America
1964 American specialist in theater, Department of State, Africa and the Far East
1973 Ph.D., New York University, New York, N.Y.
1973-1974 Visiting professor, Department of Dramatic Arts, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn.
1975 Visiting professor, Pace University, New York, N.Y.
Writer, actor, "CBS Radio Mystery Theatre"
1976 Visiting professor, Eminent Scholar Program, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
1977 Visiting professor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind.
1983-1984 National Visiting Scholar, Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
1989, Dec. 15 Died, New York, N.Y.
1903, Mar. 22 Born, Baltimore, Md.
1924 B.S., United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1924-1927 Naval officer, sea duty along the East Coast, in the Caribbean, and in Europe
1927 Resigned from active duty
1928-1929 Police and general assignment reporter, Baltimore Sun
1929-1937 General assignment reporter, New York Times
1931 Married Helen Bruce
1933 Resigned Naval Reserve commission
1937-1942 Military and naval correspondent, New York Times
1942 Published Strategy for Victory. New York: W. W. Norton
1942-1968 Military affairs editor, New York Times
1943 Awarded the Pulitzer Prize
1944 Awarded Distinguished Service Medal, Syracuse University, Syracuse, N.Y.
1958 Published The Great Arms Race. New York: Praeger
1969-1971 President, United States Naval Academy Alumni Association
1970 Published Strategy for Tomorrow. New York: Harper & Row
1991, Nov. 13 Died, Roxbury, Conn.
1760, Feb. 9 Born, Cambridge, Md.
1784-1787 Studied law at the Middle Temple, London, England
1789 Married Charlotte Hughins
1791 Admitted to Maryland bar
Member, Maryland House of Representatives
1791-1797 Member, United States House of Representatives from Maryland
1797-1801 Minister to the Netherlands
1799-1800 Appointed minister plenipotentiary (with Oliver Ellsworth and William Richardson Davie) to negotiate with France in the aftermath of the XYZ Affair, concluding in the Convention of Môrtefontaine
1801 Resigned diplomatic post and returned to Cambridge, Md.
1803, Dec. 11 Died, Cambridge, Md.
1904, Aug. 19 Born, Schippenbeil, Germany
1929 M.D., University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany
1929-1930 Residency, Beelitz Heilstätten, Berlin, Germany
1930-1932 Public health official, Düsseldorf, Germany
1932-1934 Medical director, Rheinburg Sanatorium for Nervous and Mental Diseases, Gailingen, Germany
1934-1938 Private practice in Milan, Italy, after fleeing Nazi Germany
1940 Immigration to United States
1941-1946 Private practice in New York, N.Y., and clinical assistant, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, N.Y.
1947-1953 Psychoanalytic training, New York Psychoanalytic Institute, New York, N.Y.
1949 Published Man-Made Plague: A Primer on Neurosis. New York: Renbayle House
1952 Married Jacqueline Rosenberg
1952-1974 Private practice in New York, N.Y.
1952-1977 Taught, Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, N.Y.; professor emeritus after 1977
1958-1974 Chief consulting psychiatrist, Altro Health and Rehabilitation Services, New York, N.Y.
1958-1980 Coeditor, Psychoanalytic Quarterly
1971 Published Psychic Traumatization: Aftereffects in Individuals and Communities. Boston: Little, Brown, and Co.
1971-1973 President, Psychoanalytic Association of New York
1974 Published The Schreber Case: Psychoanalytic Profile of a Paranoid Personality. New York: Quadrangle/New York Times Book Co.
Private practice in Englewood, N.J.
1993, July 30 Died, Englewood, N.J.
1862, Apr. 9 Born, Newcastle, Ontario, Canada
1884 A.B. with honors in classics, Trinity College, University of Toronto, Canada
1885-1987 Undermaster, Trinity College School, Port Hope, Canada
1886 Ordained deacon, Protestant Episcopal Church
1887 Ordained priest
1889 A.M., Trinity College, University of Toronto, Canada
1891 Became an American citizen
1891-1901 Assistant rector, St. Stephen's Church, Boston, Mass.
1899 Published With God in the World. New York: Longmans, Green
1901-1918 Missionary bishop to the Philippine Islands
1903-1914 Member of committee appointed by the Philippine government for investigation of the opium question
1904 Paddock lecturer, General Theological Seminary, New York, N.Y.
1907 William Belden Noble lecturer, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1908-1919 Chief commissioner for the United States and president of the first International Opium Commission, Shanghai, China
1910 Attended International Missionary Conference, Edinburgh, Scotland
1911-1912 Chairman, U.S. delegation to the International Opium Conference, Hague, Netherlands (president of the conference, 1912)
1916 Published A Master Builder, Being the Life and Letters of Henry Yates Satterlee, First Bishop of Washington. New York: Longmans, Green
1918 Published The Mount of Vision, Being a Study of Life in Terms of the Whole. New York: Longmans, Green
Elected Bishop, Diocese of Western New York, Protestant Episcopal Church
1918-1919 Chief, Chaplain Service, American Expeditionary Forces, France
1919-1929 Bishop, Diocese of Western New York, Protestant Episcopal Church
1920 Chairman, Geneva meeting to plan the World Conference on Faith and Order
1921 Duff lecturer, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and Aberdeen universities, Scotland.
1923 Appointed by President Warren G. Harding to the Advisory Committee on Narcotics of the League of Nations
1924 Last attendance at opium conference
1926-1928 Bishop in charge of American Episcopal churches in Europe
1927 President, first World Conference on Faith and Order
1928 Represented the Protestant Episcopal Church of America at the installation of Cosmo Gordon Lang as Archbishop of Canterbury; last public appearance
1929, Mar. 27 Died, Lausanne, Switzerland
1839, Feb. 2 Born, Kingston, N.Y.
1859 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
Duty on the San Jacinto (screw frigate), African Squadron
1860 Duty on the Falmouth (brig)
1861 Executive master, Minnesota (steam frigate)
1862-1864 Executive officer, Octorara (gun boat), West Gulf Blockading Squadron
1864 Executive officer, Manhattan (iron clad), West Gulf Blockading Squadron
1865 Duty on the Catskill (iron clad)
1867-1868 Executive officer, Juniata (steam sloop), South Atlantic Squadron
1869-1870 Executive officer, Delaware (screw steamer), Asiatic Squadron
1871 Married Matilda Rogers Cooper
1872-1873 Commanded the Frolic (side wheeled steamer)
1873 Duty at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1874 Duty as inspector of 8th Lighthouse District, New Orleans, La.
1879-1881 Commanded the Nipsic (steam sloop), European Squadron
1882 Duty at the Norfolk Navy Yard, Norfolk, Va.
1886 Promoted to captain
1888-1889 Commanded the Vandalia (screw sloop)
1889, Mar. 15 Died, Apia, Samoa
1816, Nov. 3 Born, Rocky Mount, Va.
1837 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1837-1838 Officer, Third Artillery, United States Army
Served in Seminole Wars
1838 Resigned, United States Army
1840 Admitted to the bar of Virginia
1846-1848 Major, First Virginia Regiment, United States Army
Served in Mexican War
1861 Colonel, Confederate States of America Army
Organized volunteers in Lynchburg, Va.
1862 Wounded, Battle of Williamsburg, Va.
1863 Promoted to major general
1864 Conducted operations in Maryland and near Washington, D.C.
1865 Moved to Mexico
1865-1869 Lived in Canada
1866 Published A Memoir of the Last Year of the War of Independence, in the Confederate States of America. Toronto: Lovell & Gibson
1870 Resumed law practice, Lynchburg, Va.
1877 Commissioner, Louisiana lottery
1894, Mar. 2 Died, Lynchburg, Va.
1889, June 15 Born, Tunbridge Wells, England
1904 Moved to Syracuse, N.Y., to live with relatives
1910 Graduated, Washington Irving Preparatory School, New York, N.Y.
1912-1917 Free-lanced in Rochester, N.Y., as cartoonist and illustrator
Staff artist for Coke and Iron Monthly, Chicago, Ill.
1917 Enlisted in the Aviation Section of the Signal Corps, United States Army
1918 Graduated, First Officer's School in Aerial Photography, School of Military Aeronautics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
Appointed instructor of aerial photographic interpretation, School of Military Aeronautics
Naturalized in Syracuse, N.Y.
1919 Assigned to McCook Field, Dayton, Ohio, by Gen. William "Billy" Mitchell; appointed officer-in-charge of aerial photographic research
1920 Promoted to first lieutenant and appointed officer-in-charge of aerial photography in the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps, Washington, D.C.
1924 Reappointed officer-in-charge of aerial photographic research, McCook Field, Dayton, Ohio
1927-1929 Appointed commanding officer of the Sixth Photographic Section, Camp Nichols, Philippine Islands
1929 Named director of the Army Photographic School, Chanute Field, Rantoul, Ill.
1934 Promoted to captain
Supervised aerial mapping operations in central and northern Alaska
1936 Appointed chief of aerial photographic research and development, Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio
1940 Promoted to major
1942 Promoted to lieutenant colonel
Developed the first stereoscopic strip camera
1943 Married Elizabeth Hayes
1944 Awarded Legion of Merit for work at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio
Assisted United States Navy with aerial photographic reconnaissance in England and France
1945 Appointed photographic disarmament officer and assigned to Germany
Awarded Oak Leaf Cluster for the Legion of Merit and the French Croix de Guerre
1946 Assigned to Bikini Island in connection with atom bomb testing
1948 Promoted to colonel
1950 Received the Thurman H. Bane Award from the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences
Granted patent for the flashlight cartridge and camera night aerial photographic system
1951 Received the Progress Medal Award from the Photographic Society of America
1952 Promoted to brigadier general and appointed director of reconnaissance, Allied Air Forces in Central Europe, Fontainbleu, France
1953 Retired from air force
Photographic director, Bulova Research and Development Laboratories, N.Y.
1959 Assistant to the president, Itek Laboratories, Boston, Mass.
1962 Asked by Gen. Curtis LeMay to make stereo strips of Cuban missile sites with the stereoscopic strip camera
1969 With coauthor DeWitt S. Copp published autobiography Overview: A Life-long Adventure in Aerial Photography. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday
Retired from Itek Laboratories
1976 Inducted into the Aviation Hall of Fame and the International Aerospace Hall of Fame
1987, Sept. 20. Died, Boca Raton, Fla.
1897, Sept. 10 Born, Haynau, Germany
1922 Received medical degree, University of Munich, Munich, Germany
1922-1925 Pediatric internship, University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany
Internship and residency in internal medicine, Munich University Hospital, Munich, Germany
1925-1928 Residencies, Oppenheim Neurological Clinic and Department of Psychiatry, Charité Hospital, Berlin, Germany
1925-1929 Psychoanalytical training, Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute, Berlin, Germany
1929 Began practice of psychiatry and psychoanalysis, Berlin, Germany
1934 Appointed training analyst, Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute, Berlin, Germany
1935-1938 Imprisoned by Nazis for refusal to give information on patients to the Gestapo
1938 Escaped from Germany and emigrated to the United States
1940-1977 Private psychoanalytic practice, New York, N.Y.
1942 Appointed training analyst, New York Psychoanalytic Institute, New York, N.Y.; served as member of faculty and on educational committee
1964 Published The Self and the Object World. New York: International University Press
1971 Published Depression: Comparative Studies of Normal, Neurotic, and Psychotic Conditions. New York: International University Press
1978, Dec. 8 Died, Rochester, N.Y.
1911, Nov. 11 Born, Montclair, N. J.
1932 B.S. in physics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1934 Married Gretchen Hinckley Kraemer
1936-1938 Instructor in physics, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
1938 Ph.D. in physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.
1938-1941 Professor of Physics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1941-1944 Assistant director, Radiation Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.; headed team that developed SCR 584 gun laying radar
1942-1946 Consultant to the secretary of war; field duty as chief radar advisor in North African, European, and Pacific theaters of World War II
1947-1951 Professor of physics and dean of graduate college, University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.
Editor-in-chief, Radiation Laboratory series of technical books
1948-1952 Chairman, scientific advisory board to the chief of staff, United States Air Force
1951-1954 Vice president, International Telemeter Corp., Los Angeles, Calif.
1952-1953 Visiting professor of engineering, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.
1954 Published and edited with William A. Nierenberg, Modern Physics for the Engineer(New York: McGraw-Hill. 2 vols.)
1955 Director of program development, Missile System Division, Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.
1955-1957 Director of research, Missile System Division, Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.
1957-1959 Assistant general manager and chief scientist, Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank, Calif.
1959 Vice president and general manager, Electronics and Avionics Division, Lockheed Aircraft Corp., Burbank Calif.
1959, May 21 Died, Washington, D.C.
1912, Nov. 24 Born, Rochester, N.Y.
1933 Graduated, American Academy of Dramatic Arts, New York, N.Y.
Acted for the first time on Broadway in Little Ol' Boy
1934 Appeared in Spring Song (play)
1935 Appeared in Three Men on a Horse (play)
1936 Directed Hitch Your Wagon (play)
1938 Directed A Man to Remember (film)
1939 Directed The Great Man Votes (film)
1940 Directed My Favorite Wife (film)
1941 Directed Tom, Dick and Harry (film)
1941-1945 Served with the United States army
1942 Married Ruth Gordon (died 1985)
1945 Codirectored with Carol Reed, The True Glory, Dwight D. Eisenhower's film report on the Allied victory in Europe
1946 Wrote and directed Born Yesterday (play) for which he received the Donaldson Award and the Sidney Howard Memorial Award
Directed Years Ago (play)
1948 Coauthored with Ruth Gordon A Double Life (screenplay)
1949 Coauthored with Ruth Gordon Adam's Rib (screenplay)
1950 Wrote the English libretto and directed Die Fledermaus for the Metropolitan Opera Co.
1952 Coauthored with Ruth Gordon Pat and Mike (screenplay)
1955 Wrote and directed The Diary of Anne Frank (play)
1959 Published Blow Up a Storm. New York: Random House
1960 Wrote and directed Do Re Mi (play)
1964 Directed Funny Girl (play)
1966 Published Remembering Mr. Maugham. New York: Atheneum
1969 Published Cast of Characters. New York: Atheneum
1971 Published Tracy and Hepburn: An Intimate Memoir. New York: Viking Press
1990 Married Marian Seldes
1999, Mar.13 Died, New York, N.Y.
1916, Jan. 22 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1938 B.A., University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
Stage manager and assistant to the president, Mercury Theatre on the Air
1939 Married Evelyn Goldstein
1939-1953 Writer, director, and producer of radio and television programs
1942-1943 Senior editor, United States Office of War Information, overseas branch
1943-1945 Radio consultant to Lieutenant General Brehon Summerville, United States Army
1946-1986 Professor of English, Barnard College, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1953 Coauthored with George S. Kaufman, The Solid Gold Cadillac (play)
1953-1987 Served on council and several committees, Dramatists Guild
1957 Published Miss Lonelyhearts (play)
1958 Published The Girls in 509 (play)
1960 Published Julia, Jake, and Uncle Joe (play)
1962-1972 Executive vice president, Shubert Theatres Enterprises
1963 Published A Rainy Day in Newark (play)
1972 Published George S. Kaufman: An Intimate Portrait. New York: Atheneum
1976 Published Smart Aleck: The Wit, World, and Life of Alexander Woollcott. New York: William Morrow
1979 Published Alice: The Life and Times of Alice Roosevelt Longworth. New York: Prentice-Hall
Published and directed Smart Aleck (play)
1981 Published Fonda: My Life as Told to Howard Teichmann. New York: New American Library
1987, July 7 Died, New York, N.Y.
1900, May 11 Born, Paris, France
1919 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1919-1922 Served consecutively aboard the Kroonland (liner), Utah (battleship), and Sturtevant (destroyer)
1922-1924 Served aboard the Scorpion (patrol vessel converted yacht) in Turkish waters
1923-1924 Served aboard Submarine Chaser No. 96 in the Black Sea
1924-1925 Served consecutively aboard the destroyersMacLeish and MacFarland
1925-1927 Instructor, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1928 Served aboard the Utah (battleship)
Ordered for flight training and designated naval aviator, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla.
1928-1929 Scouting Squadron Five-S (aviation unit),Concord (light cruiser)
1929-1931 Executive officer, Scouting Squadron Six-S (aviation unit) aboard the Cincinnati (light cruiser)
1930 Married Barbara Little
1931-1932 Assistant operations officer, Naval Air Station, Anacostia, D.C.
1932-1933 Aide to the chief of Bureau of Aeronautics, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
1933-1935 Commander, Sandpiper (minesweeper)
1935-1936 Scouting Squadron Four-B, Langley (aircraft carrier)
1936-1937 Attended Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1937-1939 Aviation officer, Naval War College and Naval Torpedo Station, Newport, R.I.
1939-1940 Navigator, Lexington (aircraft carrier)
1940-1941 Aviation officer, staff of Commander Scouting Force and Commander Task Force Three
1941 Liaison officer between the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations and the commanding general, Army Air Force Command, Washington, D.C.
1942 Liaison officer between Headquarters, Commander in Chief, United States Fleet, and Army Air Force Combat Command, Washington, D.C.
1942-1943 Aviation plans officer, Headquarters, Commander in Chief, United States Fleet
1943-1944 Naval aviation officer, Army and Navy College, Washington, D.C.
1944 Received letter of commendation with authorization to wear the commendation ribbon
Temporary duty, Air Force Pacific Fleet aboard theEssex (aircraft carrier)
1945 Commanding officer, Lexington (aircraft carrier)
Received Legion of Merit with Combat Distinguishing Device "V"
1945-1948 Assigned consecutively to Office of the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Air, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and Office of the Secretary of the Navy
1948-1949 Commander, Carrier Division Seventeen
1949-1952 Navy member, Joint Strategic Survey Committee, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Washington, D.C.
1952-1953 Commander, Carrier Division Two
1953-1956 Chief of staff and later president, United States Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1957-1960 President, Navy Discharge Review Board, Bureau of Naval Personnel, Navy Department, Washington, D.C.
1960-1962 Commandant, Potomac River Naval Command, Naval Weapons Plant, Washington, D.C.
1962 Awarded a gold star in lieu of a second Legion of Merit
Retired from the navy
1972, Dec. 12 Died, New London, Conn. [?]
1881, Aug. 26 Born, Newport, R.I.
1914 Married Gifford Pinchot (died 1946)
1915 Birth of only child, Gifford Bryce Pinchot
1923-1927 First Lady of Pennsylvania
1923 Advocated enforcement of Volstead Act prohibiting sale of liquor
1928 Ran unsuccessfully for Congress
1931-1935 First Lady of Pennsylvania
1932 Ran unsuccessfully for Congress
1934 Walked the picket line in support of striking laundry and garment workers, New York, N.Y.
Sought governorship of Pennsylvania as an independent; later withdrew
1949 Delegate, United Nations Conference on the Conservation and Utilization of Resources, Lake Success, N. Y.
1960, Sept. 9 Died, Washington, D.C.
1845, May 25 Born, Meigs County, Ohio
1862-1865 Bugler, Company A, Second West Virginia Voluntary Cavalry
1866 Teacher, Maryville, Mo.
1871 Civil engineer, C. Baker & Co., St. Joseph, Mo.
1874 Married Mary S. Hughes (died 1909)
1875-1930 Businessman, real estate companies, Maryville, Mo.
1882 Congressional nominee, Greenback-Labor Party
1892 Congressional nominee, Republican Party
1909 Chairman, Maryville Public Utilities Commission, Maryville, Mo.
1932, Sept. 17 Died, Maryville, Mo.
1913, Dec. 7 Born, Trenton, N.J.
1935 A.B., Hamilton College, Clinton, N.Y.
1938 J.D., Cornell Law School, Ithaca, N.Y.
1938-1942 Lawyer, Sutherland and Sutherland, Rochester, N.Y.
1939 Married Evelyn Zimmerman (died 2010)
1942-1944 Assistant general counsel, Office of Price Administration
1944-1946 Lieutenant, United States Naval Reserve
1946-1958 Partner, Sutherland, Linowitz and Williams, Rochester, N.Y.
1947 Counsel, Haloid Co., Rochester, N.Y.
1951 Vice president in charge of patents and licensing, Haloid Co.
1951-1959 Founder and moderator, Court of Public Opinion, public affairs television program, Rochester, N.Y.
1957 Member, board of directors, Rank Xerox, London, England
1958-1966 Senior partner, Harris, Beach, Wilcox, Dale and Linowitz, Rochester, N.Y.
1959 Chairman, executive committee, and general counsel, Haloid Xerox, Inc.
1961-1966 Chairman of the board, Xerox Corp.
1962 Chairman, Advisory Committee on International Organizations, State Dept.
1964 Cofounder, with David Rockefeller, International Executive Service Corps.
1965 Member, President's General Advisory Committee on Foreign Assistance Programs
1966 Chairman, Xerox International, Inc.
1966-1969 Ambassador, Organization of American States
1969-1984 Senior partner, Coudert Brothers, Washington, D.C.
1970-1973 Chairman, National Urban Coalition
1974-1976 Chairman, Commission on United States-Latin American Relations
1977-1978 Co-negotiator with Ellsworth Bunker, Panama Canal treaties
1978-1980 Chairman, Presidential Commission on World Hunger
1979-1981 Personal representative of the president for Middle East peace negotiations
1981-1992 Founding chairman, Inter-American Dialogue
1984-1994 Senior counsel, Coudert Brothers, Washington, D.C.
1985 Published his memoirs, The Making of a Public Man. Boston: Little, Brown and Co.
1998 Awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
2005, Mar. 18 Died, Washington, D.C.
1878, Dec. 14 Born, Newark, N.J.
1901 B.A., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1901-1903 Reporter, New York Tribune
1903 Manuscript editor, Cosmopolitan
1904-1907 Assistant editor, Country Life in America, The Survey
1908-1913 Associate editor, Collier's Weekly
1912 Married Helen Hayes
1914-1915 Red Cross worker, Hector Monro Ambulance Corps, Belgium
1916-1917 European correspondent, New York Tribune and Century Magazine
1917 Writer, Publicity Department, YMCA, American Expeditionary Forces
1919 English correspondent, The Survey
Awarded Mons Star and Ribbon by the British War Office
Published with Paul U. Kellogg British Labor and the War. New York: Boni and Liveright
1920 Returned to the United States
Published What the Workers Want. New York: Harcourt, Brace, and Howe
1921 Published Workers' Education. New York: Bureau of Industrial Research
1921-1922 Staff member, Bureau of Industrial Research
Collaborated with John Brophy in advancing miners' plan for nationalization of the coal industry
1923 Moved to San Diego, Calif.
1923, Dec. 30 Died, Washington, D.C.
1834, Nov. 16 Born, Worcester, Mass.
1855 Graduated, University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.
1862-1876 Editor and proprietor, New York World, New York, N.Y.
1864 Supported George B. McClellan for president
Married Delia West (died 1869)
1874 Wrote platform for New York state Democratic Party
1876 Wrote platform for national Democratic Party
1878 Published Secret Chapter of Political History ... (New York: New York Sun)
1879 Married Abby Williams Lambard
1885 Delegate to European bimetallic congress
1917, July 24 Died, Allington Castle, Kent, England
1867 Born, Ludwig Jekeles, Austria
1892 Received medical degree, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
circa 1895 Founded sanitarium in Silesia for the treatment of nervous disorders
1903 Changed name to Ludwig Jekels
1905 Became a pupil of Sigmund Freud
circa 1915-1935 Practiced psychoanalysis in Vienna, Austria
1935 Moved to Sweden
1938 Immigrated to the United States
1954, Apr. 3 Died, New York, N.Y.
Note on the Organization
Founded in 1892 and incorporated in 1925, the American Psychological Association (APA), a professional organization for psychologists, numbered slightly over seventy-two thousand members as of 1991. The primary purpose of the organization, according to Article I of the original articles of incorporation, is "to advance psychology as a science, as a profession, and as a means of promoting human welfare." These objectives are accomplished through annual meetings, through publication of journals, pamphlets and books, and through administrative services that strive to improve standards and training for psychologists.
The chief governing body of the APA is the Council of Representatives, whose members include representatives from each of the association's divisions and affiliated state associations. The Board of Directors is the administrative agent of the council and exercises general supervision over the affairs of the association through interaction with the executive officer. The board is composed of six council members elected by the council and six officers of the association (president, past president, president-elect, recording secretary, treasurer, and executive officer). The executive officer does not vote.
The administration of the organization is vested in the executive officer, at various times called the executive secretary, executive officer and chief executive officer, who manages the central office located in Washington, D. C. Adjuncts to the executive are a number of specialized administrative offices that support the administrator according to the interests of the office. For instance, there are offices dealing with educational affairs, scientific affairs, women's issues, and professional affairs.
Associated with the organization are divisions, committees, and affiliated organizations that help define the interests of the association. Presently the APA has forty-two divisions, ranging from "general psychology" and "psychologists in private practice," to "counseling," "teaching of psychology," "personality," and "family." Committees guide projects and handle issues ranging from ethical standards to insurance and financial questions. Some committees are standing bodies; others are continuing or ad hoc. Committees are established by the council of representatives, board, or other committees. Affiliates are organizations that have merged or associated with the APA. One such group represented in the records is the American Association of Applied Psychologists.
Information on the formative period of the organization is contained in an article by Samuel W. Fernberger, published in the Psychological Bulletin in 1932, detailing its history from 1892 to the early 1930s.
circa 1890 Married Emma Elizabeth Householder (died 1945)
1896 Coauthored with E. H. Elder The Light of the World: Or Our Savior in Art. Chicago: Elder Co. (Republished London, New York: British-American Co., 1899)
1902-1903 Published Charles H. Grosvenor's The Book of the Presidents, with Biographical Sketches. Washington, D.C.: Continental Press
circa 1903-1912 Published biographical directories entitled The National Memorial of the United States
circa 1930 Died, California
1892, June 21 Born, Wright City, Mo.
1910 Graduated, Elmhurst College, Elmhurst, Ill.
1913 Graduated, Eden Theological Seminary, Webster Groves, Mo.
Ordained minister, German Evangelical Synod of North America
1914 B. D., Yale University Divinity School, New Haven, Conn.
1915 A. M., Yale University Divinity School, New Haven, Conn.
1915-1928 Pastor, Bethel Evangelical Church, Detroit, Mich.
1929 Published Leaves from the Notebook of a Tamed Cynic. Chicago: Willett, Clark and Colby
1928-1930 Associate professor of Christian ethics and philosophy of religion, Union Theological Seminary, New York, N.Y.
1930-1960 Professor of Christian ethics and philosophy of religion, Union Theological Seminary, New York, N.Y.
1931 Married Ursula Keppel-Compton
1932 Published Moral Man and Immoral Society. New York, N.Y.: C. Scribner's Sons
1939 Delivered the Gifford Lectures at the University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland; published in 1941-1943 as The Nature and Destiny of Man. New York, N.Y.: C. Scribner's Sons. 2 vols.
1940 Resigned from the Socialist Party
1941-1966 Editor, Christianity and Crisis
1947 Co-chairman, Founding Conference of Americans for Democratic Action
1964 Received Presidential Medal of Freedom
1971, June 1 Died, Stockbridge, Mass.
1879, Jan. 16 Born, Oneida County, Idaho
1904 B.S., Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, Utah
1905 Instructor, Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, Utah
1905, Sept. 6 Married Effie Nebeker
1905-1906 Professor, Agricultural College of Utah, Logan, Utah
1907-1910 Assistant United States cerealist in charge of dry land grain investigations
1912 Lecturer, Graduate School of Agriculture, Michigan Agricultural College, East Lansing, Mich.
1913-1918 Director of Experiment Station and Dean of Agriculture, Kansas State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kans.
1918-1925 President, Kansas State Agricultural College, Manhattan, Kans.
1925-1929 Secretary of agriculture
1930-1933 Envoy extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary to Egypt
1933-1934 State treasurer of Kansas
1934-1949 President, University of Wichita, Wichita, Kansas
1949-1955 President Emeritus, University of Wichita, Wichita, Kansas
1955, Jan. 17 Died, San Antonio, Tex.
1876, Nov. 29 Born, Watertown, Wis.
1898 A.B. degree, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1901 LL.B degree, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1902 Married Emlen Knight
1902-1906 State's attorney, Wisconsin
1912 Chairman, western headquarters, Democratic Party campaign
1913-1915 United States commissioner of corporations
1915-1916 Chairman, Federal Trade Commission
1918 Economic adviser to President Woodrow Wilson, Versailles Peace Conference, Versailles, France
1935 Married Marjorie Post
1936 Vice chairman, Democratic National Committee
1936-1938 Ambassador to the Soviet Union
1938-1939 Ambassador to Belgium and minister to Luxembourg
1939-1941 Special assistant to Cordell Hull in charge of war emergency problems and policies
1941 Chairman, Franklin D. Roosevelt's inaugural committee
Published Mission to Moscow. New York: Simon and Schuster
1942-1946 Chairman, War Relief and Control Board
1943 Special envoy with rank of ambassador to confer with Joseph Stalin
1945 Chairman, Franklin D. Roosevelt's inaugural committee
Special envoy with rank of ambassador to confer with Sir Winston Churchill
Special adviser with rank of ambassador, Potsdam Conference, Potsdam, Germany
1946-1947 Vice chairman, President's Committee to Study Universal Military Training
1958, May 9 Died, Washington, D.C.
1871, Dec. 3 Born, Martinsburg, W.Va.
1892 B.A., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1894 L.L.B. Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.
1902 Married Elizabeth Leopold
1896-1897 Private secretary to Postmaster General William L. Wilson
1897-1899 Private law practice, Martinsburg, W.Va.
1899 Private law practice, Cleveland, Ohio
1901-1902 First assistant city solicitor, Cleveland, Ohio
1902-1912 City solicitor, Cleveland, Ohio
1912-1916 Mayor, Cleveland, Ohio
1916-1921 Secretary of war
1918 Published Frontiers of Freedom. New York: George H. Doran Co.
1921 Private law practice, firm of Baker, Hostetler, and Sidlo, Cleveland, Ohio
1925 Published Progress and the Constitution. New York: Scribner's Sons
1928 Appointed to permanent Court of Arbitration at the Hague, Netherlands
1929 Appointed to Law Enforcement Commission
1932 Published Bolshevism, Fascism and Capitalism. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press
1936 Published Why We Went to War. Freeport, N.Y.: Harper & Brother for the Council on Foreign Relations
1937, 25 Dec. Died, Shaker Heights, Ohio
1918, Dec. 5 Born, Kittrell, N.C.
1938 B.A., Wilberforce University, Wilberforce, Ohio
1938-1942 Mathematics and science teacher, public school system, Columbia, S.C.
1942-1946 United States Army, Women’s Auxiliary Corps; served as company commander, staff training officer, and station control officer, Fort Des Moines, Iowa, (1942-1944) and commanding officer, 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, European Theater of Operations (1945)
1946 Retired from U. S. Army as lieutenant colonel
M.A., Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio
Registration officer, Veterans Administration, Cleveland, Ohio
1948 Dean of personnel services, Tennessee Agricultural and Industrial State College, Nashville, Tenn.
1948-1949 Dean of students, Georgia State College, Savannah, Ga.
1949 Married Stanley A. Earley, Jr.
1950-1952 Studied at University of Zurich and Jungian Institute of Analytical Psychology, Zurich, Switzerland
1965-1993 Board of directors, Dayton, Ohio, area chapter, American Red Cross
1972-1978 Board of governors, American Red Cross
1977-1992 Board of trustees, Sinclair Community College, Dayton, Ohio
1979-1991 Board of directors, Dayton Power and Light Co.
1982 Founder Black Leadership Development Program, Dayton, Ohio, 1989
1989 Published One Woman’s Army: A Black Officer Remembers the WAC. College Station: Texas A & M University Press
Founding member, Parity 2000 (renamed Parity Inc.)
2002, Jan. 13 Died, Dayton, Ohio
1904, Apr. 13 Born, Washington, D.C.
1923-1924 Attended University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
1924-1925 Army Air Service
1927 Commissioned as an officer in the Army Air Corps
1927-1928 Engineering officer, Bolling Field, Washington, D.C.
1927-1928 Attended Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
1928-1930 Aide to Major General James Fechet
1930-1932 Assistant military attaché, Cuba
1932 Promoted to first lieutenant
1935 Promoted to captain
1937-1938 Flight commanding officer, 1st Bomb Squadron, Mitchel Field, N.Y.
1938-1940 Technical advisor to the Argentine air force
1940-1941 Assigned to intelligence in the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps
1941-1942 Commanding officer of the 33rd Pursuit Group, Mitchel Field, N.Y.
1942 Promoted to lieutenant colonel
1942 Promoted to brigadier general
1943 Commanding officer, 1st Air Defense Wing and 12th Fighter Command, North Africa
1943 Commanding general, IX Fighter Command, England
1944 Promoted to major general
1945 Returned to the United States as assistant chief of air staff for intelligence
1947 Promoted to lieutenant general
1949-1951 Commander of Joint Task Force-3
1951 Retired from the United States Air Force
1958-1961 Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration
1993, Feb. 9 Died, Washington, D.C.
1722, Sept. 27 Born, Boston, Mass.
1740 Graduated, Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1743 M.A., Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.
1756-1764 Brewer and tax collector, Boston, Mass.
1765-1774 Member, Massachusetts general court
1774-1781 Member, Continental Congress
1776 Signer of the Declaration of Independence
1779 Member, Massachusetts state constitutional convention
1781 President, Massachusetts state senate
1788 Member, Massachusetts state constitutional convention
Unsuccessful candidate for election to the first U.S. Congress
1789-1794 Lieutenant governor of Massachusetts
1794-1797 Governor of Massachusetts
1803, Oct. 2 Died, Boston, Mass.
1828, Nov. 18 Born, Port Deposit, Md.
1848 Graduated, Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa.
1850 Began law practice, Elkton, Md.
1856 Delegate to the Democratic national convention
1861 Member, Maryland House of Delegates
Affiliated with the Republican party
1862-1863 Adjutant general of Maryland
1863-1865 Member, United States House of Representatives
1865-1867 Member, United States Senate
1869-1874 Postmaster general
1874-1876 Counsel, Alabama Claims Commission
1876 Resumed law practice
1891, Dec. 23 Died near Elkton, Md.
1758, April 28 Born, Westmoreland County, Va.
1774 Moved to King George County under the guardianship of his uncle, Joseph Jones
Entered College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
1775 Commissioned second lieutenant, Third Virginia Regiment
1775-1779 Fought with George Washington and William Alexander in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel
1779 Studied law with Thomas Jefferson in Williamsburg, Va.
1782 Representative, King George County, Virginia House of Delegates
1783-1786 Delegate from Virginia, Fourth Congress of the Confederation
1786 Married Elizabeth Kortright (died 1830)
Practiced law, Fredericksburg, Va.
1788 Delegate to the Virginia state convention to ratify the Federal constitution
1790-1794 Senator from Virginia, First Congress of the United States
1794-1796 Minister Plenipotentiary to France
1799-1803 Governor of Virginia
1803 Minister Plenipotentiary to France; signed Louisiana Purchase
1803-1807 Minister to England
1811 Governor of Virginia
1811-1817 Secretary of state
1813 Secretary of war, ad interim
1814 Joined Maryland militia at Bladensburg
1814-1815 Secretary of war and secretary of state, acting in dual appointments
1817-1825 President of the United States
1830 Moved to New York, N.Y., to make his home with daughter Maria and son-in-law Samuel Gouverneur
1831, July 4 Died, New York, N.Y.
1880, Jan. 11 Born, Bellevue, Ohio
1898 Served on the Chicago (protected cruiser), Cuban campaign, and the Montgomery (cruiser), Puerto Rican campaign, Spanish-American War
1899 Graduated United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1899-1902 Served in Philippines
1904 Married Marie Melanie Taylor (died 1936)
1904-1906 Instructor, electrical engineering, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1909-1911 Instructor, electrical engineering, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1914 Commanded Vulcan (collier)
1915-1916 Senior Assistant to Head, Department of Electrical Engineering, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1917 Head, Department of Ordinance and Gunnery, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1918 Commissioned captain; commanded Housatonic (mine layer), Northern Mine Barrage, North Sea
1919 Commanded Galveston (cruiser)
1920-1923 Inspector of ordinance, Naval Powder Factory and Proving Ground, Indian Head, Md.
1923-1925 Commanded Mine Squadron I, United States Fleet
1926-1928 Head, Operations Department, Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1928-1929 Commanded Pennsylvania (battleship)
1929-1930 Chief of staff, Battleship Divisions, United States Fleet
1932 Commissioned rear admiral
1932-1934 Commanded Submarine Force, United States Fleet
1933-1939 Vice admiral, commander battleships, United States Fleet
1937 Married Mary Lee Gallagher (died 1943)
1940-1941 Senior member, President's Board to Select Sites of Bases in British Possessions
1941-1944 Commandant, Twelfth Naval District with additional duty as Commandant, Pacific Southern Naval Coastal Frontier
1944 Retired from navy
Coordinator, naval logistics, Pacific Coast
Chair, joint boards for ship operations, building and repair, Pacific Coast
Married Alma Rudd Gunther
1945 Resources coordinator, Western Sea Frontier
1950, Jan. 6 Died, Bellevue, Ohio
1846, July 5 Born near Rainsboro, Ohio
1862-1865 Officer, 89th Ohio Infantry Regiment
1866-1868 Student, Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio
1869 Graduated, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
Admitted to bar and commenced law practice, Cincinnati, Ohio
1870 Married Julia Bundy
1879-1882 Judge, superior court of Cincinnati, Ohio
1883 Unsuccessful Republican candidate for governor of Ohio
1884 Delegate-at-large, Republican National Convention (also in 1888, 1892, 1896, 1900, and 1904)
1885-1889 Governor of Ohio
1886 Chairman, Republican party of Ohio state convention (also in 1890, 1896 and 1900)
1896-1909 United States senator from Ohio
1908 William Randolph Hearst (1863-1951) reveals Foraker in employ of and in debt to Standard Oil Company while a United States senator
Lost bid for reelection to United States Senate
1909 Resumed law practice in Cincinnati, Ohio
1914 Unsuccessful Republican candidate for United States Senate
1916 Published Notes of a Busy Life (Cincinnati: Stewart & Kidd Co.). 2 vols.
1917, May 10 Died, Cincinnati, Ohio
1858, Sept. 12 Born, Springfield, Ill.
1878-1897 Haberdasher and furrier, Springfield, Ill.
1884 Married Sarah J. Thompson (died 1905)
1897-1901 City comptroller, Springfield, Ill.
1901-1920 Assistant postmaster, Springfield, Ill.
1907 Married Margaret McManus
1917 Founding member, Springfield Home Guard (local adjunct to Illinois State Council of Defense)
1920-1931 Postmaster, Springfield, Ill.
1926 Established first regularly scheduled airmail delivery for Springfield, Ill., with the assistance of Charles A. Lindbergh
1939, Aug. 21 Died, Springfield, Ill.
1843, Mar. 17 Born, Manhattan, Ohio
1858-1861 Attended Fort Wayne Methodist Episcopal College (now Taylor University), Fort Wayne, Ind.
1861 Enlisted in the 9th Indiana Infantry (volunteers)
Appointed first lieutenant, 30th Indiana Infantry (volunteers), and attained rank of brevet colonel by 1865
1864-1865 Commanded 30th Indiana Infantry in the Civil War; received Medal of Honor for gallantry at Atlanta, Ga.
1865-1867 Read law, law office of Judge Ninde, Fort Wayne, Ind., and attended Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1867 Appointed second lieutenant, United States Army
1873-1888 Fought in Indian War campaigns (Sioux in 1876, Ute in 1879, Apache in 1886) with rank of captain
1881 Married Mary Craig
1886 Led army column that pursued Geronimo and his Chiricahua Apache warriors through the mountains of Arizona and Mexico and received his surrender
1898 Commanded 2nd Division, Army Corps in Cuba, during the Spanish-American War; participated in actions at Daiquiri, Siboney, El Caney, and Santiago de Cuba, and became military governor of Santiago de Cuba after the close of hostilities; held rank of colonel
1898 Accompanied President William McKinley on tour of the United States
1898-1899 Commanded 1st Division, VIII Army Corps in the Philippines, during the Philippine Insurrection, first as brigadier and later as major general of volunteers
1899, Dec. 19 Killed in action, San Mateo, Luzon, Philippines
1897, Feb. 17 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1918 Graduated, Radcliffe College, Cambridge, Mass.
Married Hermann Blumgart (divorced 1926)
1922 M.D., Tufts University, Medford, Mass.
Began analysis with Sigmund Freud in Vienna, Austria
1925 Established psychoanalytic practice, Vienna, Austria
Member, Vienna Psychoanalytic Society, Vienna, Austria
1926-1927 Treated Sergius Pankejeff, a former analysand of Sigmund Freud and the subject of Freud’s “Wolf Man” case study
1928 Married Mark Brunswick (divorced 1937; remarried six months later; divorced 1940)
Published “A Supplement to ‘History of an Infantile Neurosis,’” The International Journal of Psycho-Analysis (9:439-476)
1929-1938 Resumed analysis of Sergius Pankejeff on an irregular basis
1932 Became an editor of the Psychoanalytic Quarterly
1938 Left Vienna, Austria, and established a private practice in New York, N.Y.
Joined New York Psychoanalytic Society, New York, N.Y.
1940 Published “The Preoedipal Phase of the Libido Development,” Psychoanalytic Quarterly (9:293-319)
1946, Jan. 24 Died, New York, N.Y.
Marie Paneth was born in Austria on August 15, 1895. She studied art with Franz Čižek whose theories on art education for children influenced her later work. Paneth was the daughter-in-law of Joseph Paneth, a friend of Sigmund Freud. She met Freud in 1920 shortly before moving to the Dutch East Indies with her husband. Paneth later moved to the United States, living and working in New York City where she exhibited with the Society of Independent Artists in 1939. She spent most of the war years in England where she worked as an art instructor with children traumatized by the bombing of London. After the war, she continued to explore the therapeutic uses of art among children who had survived German concentration camps. Paneth returned to New York in the early 1950s. She moved to France in the late 1960s and died in London in November 1986.
1867, Sept. 10 Born, Tarboro, N.C.
1888 B.A., Trinity College, Randolph County, N.C. (later Duke University, Durham, N.C.)
1890 Instructor in English, Trinity College, Randolph County, N.C.
Founded "9019," student scholarship group, Trinity College, Randolph County, N.C.
1892 Married Jessie Lewellin
1894 Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
Published The Constitutional Beginnings of North Carolina, 1663-1729 (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press. 73 pp.)
Published The Regulators of North Carolina, 1765-1771 (Washington: United States Government Printing Office. 72 pp.)
1894-1906 Professor of history, Trinity College, Randolph County, N.C.
1895 Published Suffrage in the State of North Carolina, 1776-1861 (Washington: American Historical Association. 17 pp.)
1896 Published Slavery and Servitude in the Colony of North Carolina (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press. 86 pp.)
1898 Published Anti-Slavery Leaders of North Carolina (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press. 74 pp.)
1899 Published Slavery in the State of North Carolina (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press. 111 pp.)
1901 Founder and editor, South Atlantic Quarterly (resigned as editor, 1905)
Published The Writings of "Colonel William Byrd, of Westover, in Virginia, Esqr." (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page, & Co.)
1903 Published "Stirring Up the Fires of Race Antipathy." South Atlantic Quarterly 2 (Oct. 1903): 107-113
1906-1928 Professor of history, Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
1906 Published The Federalist System, 1789-1801 (New York: Harper and Brothers. 327 pp.)
1911 Published Life of Andrew Jackson (Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday, Page, & Co. 2 vols.)
1913 Published A Short History of the United States (New York: Macmillan Co. 885 pp.)
1916 Published The Plain Story of American History (New York: Macmillan Co. 545 pp.)
1917 Published The Middle Group of American Historians (New York: Macmillan Co. 324 pp.)
Published Correspondence of George Bancroft and Jared Sparks, 1823-1832 (Northampton, Mass.: Department of History, Smith College. 77 pp.)
1918 Published The Lost Fruits of Waterloo (New York: Macmillan Co. 289 pp.)
1919 Published Our War With Germany: A History (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. 386 pp.)
1919-1928 Secretary, American Historical Association
1920 Chairman, advisory group, Democratic National Committee
1922 Published Letters of Francis Parkman to Pierre Margry (Northampton, Mass: Department of History, Smith College. 86 pp.)
1925 Published The Southern Plantation Overseer as Revealed in His Letters (Northampton, Mass.: Department of History of Smith College. 280 pp.)
1926 Published Expansion and Reform, 1889-1926 (New York: Longmans, Green, and Co. 355 pp.)
1926-1935 Published Correspondence of Andrew Jackson (Washington, D.C.: Carnegie Institution of Washington. 7 vols.)
1928 Published Makers of A New Nation (New Haven: Yale University Press. 344 pp.)
Published The League of Nations: A Chapter in World Politics (New York: Longmans, Green, and Co. 415 pp.)
1928, Jan. 27 Died, Washington, D.C.
1801, Feb. 1 Born, Killingworth, Conn.
1819-1826 Taught school in Connecticut
1826-1830 Taught school, Riga, N.Y.
1828 Received into Presbyterian Church, Riga, N.Y.
1831-1933 Attended Auburn Theological Seminary, Auburn, N.Y.
1833 Licensed as a minister by Cayuga County, N.Y. Presbytery
Ordained a missionary by American Board of Foreign Missions
1833-1834 Went on missionary expedition to Patagonia
1834 Married Fidelia Church (1810-1872)
1834 Sailed for Hawaii
1834-1882 Missionary, Hilo, Hawaii
1836 Birth of son, Titus Munson Coan (died 1921)
1839 Birth of daughter, Harriet Fidelia Coan (died 1906)
1843 Birth of daughter, Sarah Eliza Coan (died 1916)
1846 Birth of son, Samuel Latimer Coan (died 1887)
1860 and 1867 Made voyages to Marquesas Islands for Hawaiian Missionary Society
1870-1871 Visited the United States
1873 Married Lydia Bingham (died 1915)
1880 Published Adventures in Patagonia. New York; Dodd, Mead
1882 Published Life in Hawaii. New York: A. D. F. Randolph
1882, Dec. 1 Died, Hilo, Hawaii
Otto Fleischmann was born January 24,1896, in Mór, Hungary. Although originally a juris doctor, he studied philosophy with Moritz Schlick at the University of Vienna and in 1938 became a Freudian pschoanalyst under the mentorship of August Aichhorn. Fleischmann was associated with many psychoanalysts including Anna Freud. After the German Nazi takeover of Austria, Fleischmann went to Budapest, Hungary. In 1944, with the German occupation of Hungary, he received protection from the Swedish Foreign Ministry through diplomatic cover provided by Raoul Wallenberg. Fleischmann subsequently worked with Wallenberg in his efforts to save Jews in Hungary, 1944-1945. In 1948, he returned to Vienna from Budapest to help Aichhorn revive the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society (WPV) which had been repressed under Nazi rule. He served as Secretary and Vice President of the WPV until his emigration to the United States to join the faculty of the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kansas, in 1949. He died January 8, 1963, in New York City.
Charles Julius Allen (1840-1915) graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1864. He served in the army corps of engineers until 1904, including in the Military Division of West Mississippi and Department of Louisiana, 1864-1866, during the Civil War period. Allen was in charge of defenses of Washington, D.C., during the Spanish-American War. He was promoted to brigadier-general in 1904 and retired at his request that same year. He died in 1915.
Grace Elizabeth Allen, his daughter (1886-1976), was educated at Columbia Hospital in Washington, D.C., the New York School of Social Work, and Columbia University. She engaged in welfare work in North Carolina and for the United States government and served on behalf of the American Red Cross.
1855, Oct. 20 Born, Pittsford, N.Y.
1877 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1879-1883 Duty on the Swatara, Asiatic Station
1883-1887 Instructor, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1885 Married Mariana W. Robinson
1886 Promoted to lieutenant
1887-1891 Duty on the Boston (sloop of war), Yorktown, and Chicago
1891-1894 Instructor, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1894-1897 Duty on the Raleigh and Amphitrite
1898 Duty on the New Orleans, Spanish-American War
Instructor at United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1899 Published Handbook for Infantry and Artillery, United States Navy. Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute
1900-1902 Executive officer, Lancaster (sloop of war)
1902 Published The Recruit’s Handy Book. Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute
Published The Petty Officer’s Drill Book. Annapolis, Md.: Naval Institute
1902-1904 Instructor, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1905 Commanded the Terror and the Glacier
Promoted to commander
1906-1907 Commanded the Marietta (gunboat) during Cuban, Caribbean, and Central American politico-military actions
1907-1909 Commanded the Naval Training Station, Newport, R.I.
1909 Promoted to captain
1909-1911 Commanded the Mississippi (battleship)
1911-1913 Commandant, Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, III.
1914 Promoted to rear admiral
1914-1915 Superintendent, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1915-1917 Commander in chief, United States Pacific Reserve Fleet
1917-1919 Commander, Patrol Force, United States Pacific Fleet
1919 Retired from the United States Navy
1926, Sept. 23 Died, Washington, D.C.
Norman Hapgood
1868, Mar. 28 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1890 A.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1893 A.M., LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1896 Married Emilie Bigelow
1987-1902 Drama critic, New York Commercial Advertiser and Bookman
1903-1912 Editor, Collier's Weekly
1913-1916 Editor, Harper's Weekly
1916 Married Elizabeth Reynolds
Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Independent League
1917 Foreign correspondent for a number of American papers, Europe
1918-1919 President, American League of Nations Association
1919 Appointed American Minister to Denmark
1923-1925 Editor, Hearst's International
1927-1930 Resided in Washington, D.C., working on various books, including his autobiography, The Changing Years. New York: Farrar & Rinehart, 1930
1936-1937 Editor, Christian Register
1937, Apr. 29 Died, New York, N.Y.
Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood
1894 Born, New York, N.Y.
1914 Graduated, Ecole des Langues Orientales, University of Paris, Paris, France
1915 Appointed head, Russian Department, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1916 Married Norman Hapgood
1918 Established, Russian Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.Y.
1974 Died, New York, N.Y.
Norman Hapgood
1868, Mar. 28 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1890 A.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1893 A.M., LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1896 Married Emilie Bigelow
1987-1902 Drama critic, New York Commercial Advertiser and Bookman
1903-1912 Editor, Collier's Weekly
1913-1916 Editor, Harper's Weekly
1916 Married Elizabeth Reynolds
Chairman, Woodrow Wilson Independent League
1917 Foreign correspondent for a number of American papers, Europe
1918-1919 President, American League of Nations Association
1919 Appointed American Minister to Denmark
1923-1925 Editor, Hearst's International
1927-1930 Resided in Washington, D.C., working on various books, including his autobiography, The Changing Years. New York: Farrar & Rinehart, 1930
1936-1937 Editor, Christian Register
1937, Apr. 29 Died, New York, N.Y.
Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood
1894 Born, New York, N.Y.
1914 Graduated, Ecole des Langues Orientales, University of Paris, Paris, France
1915 Appointed head, Russian Department, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1916 Married Norman Hapgood
1918 Established, Russian Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.Y.
1974 Died, New York, N.Y.
1844, Mar. 21 Born, Gettysburg, Pa.
1863-1867 Cadet, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1867-1869 Engineer, United States Army
1869-1872 Topographical engineer, Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, Pa.
1872-1892 Professor of civil engineering, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1873 Married Isabella Christina Cromwell
1892-1937 Private engineering practice, Philadelphia, Pa.
1897-1899 Member, Nicaraguan Canal Commission
1899-1902 Member, Isthmian Canal Commission
1904 Won gold and silver medals for engineering feats, St. Louis Exposition, St. Louis, Mo.
1911 Patented automatic device for reclaiming eroded beaches
1937, Mar. 10 Died, Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
1832, Jan. 22 Born, Newport, N.H.
1847 Appointed midshipman
1847-1850 Duty in USS Porpoise, Africa Squadron
1850-1853 Duty in USS Raritan, Pacific Squadron
1853-1854 Attended United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1854-1855 Duty in USS Falmouth
1856-1858 Duty in USS Portsmouth, Asiatic Squadron
1859-1861 Duty in USS St. Louis, Home Squadron
1861 Married Ellen D. Reed
1861-1862 Duty in USS Huron, South Atlantic Blockade Squadron
1863-1864 Duty in USS Seneca, North Atlantic Blockade Squadron
1864-1865 Commanded USS Canonicus, North Atlantic Squadron
1865-1867 Duty in USS Shenandoah, Asiatic Squadron
1866 Married Frances Georgiana Prescott
1867-1868 Commanded USS Hartford, Asiatic Squadron
1868-1869 Duty at New York Naval Rendezvous
1869-1872 Duty in Boston Navy Yard
1872-1874 Commanded USS Tuscarora, Africa Squadron
1874 Duty as a hydrographic inspector
1875-1881 Commanded Pensacola Navy Yard
1881-1883 Commanded USS Alaska, Pacific Squadron
1883 Commanded Norfolk Navy Yard
1883-1884 President, Naval Torpedo Board
1885 Promoted to commodore
1885-1886 Superintendent, Naval Observatory, Washington, D.C.
1886-1889 Commanded Mare Island Navy Yard
1889 Promoted to rear admiral
1889-1892 Commanded Naval Forces, Asiatic Station
1892-1894 President, Naval Board of Inspection
1893 Naval representative, Chicago World’s Fair, Chicago, Ill.
1894 Retired from the navy
1898 Recalled to active duty as President of the Naval Coaling Board
1903, Apr. 7 Died, Key West, Fla.
1861, Jan. 6 Born, Morgan County, Ohio
1881 Graduated with law degree, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa
1884 Move to Minneapolis, Minn.
Married Edith Winslow (died 1934)
1887 Ph.D., University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1890 Appointed to the municipal bench, Minneapolis, Minn.
1890-1899 Professor of corporation and international law, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1894 Appointed to the district bench in Minnesota
1898 Adjutant general of Minnesota
1905 Appointed to the Minnesota state supreme court
1909 Appointed associate justice of the supreme court of the Philippines by President William H. Taft
1911 President, Philippine Industrial Exposition
1911-1912 Secretary of commerce and police, Philippine Commission
1935, Sept. 18 Died, Minneapolis, Minn.
1820, Aug. 31 Born, Steubenville, Ohio
1843 Graduated, Franklin College, New Athens, Ohio
1844 Moved to Kentucky
Taught school and studied law
1845-1849 Professor of mathematics, Franklin College, Davidson County, Tenn.
1846 Married Maria Louisa Embry
1856-1861 President, Howard Female College, Gallatin, Tenn.
1861 Moved to Springfield, Ill.
1862 Moved to Nashville, Tenn.
State comptroller in military government, Tennessee
1866-1871 United States senator from Tennessee
1866 Delegate, Southern Loyalists' Convention, Independence Hall, Philadelphia, Pa.
1871 Retired from the United States Senate
Returned to Tennessee
1902, Apr. 1 Died, Washington, D.C.
1843, July 3 Born, Steubenville, Ohio
1861-1866 Cipher operator and manager of the War Department's telegraph office
1867 Married Sallie J. Raphael Kenney
1907 Published Lincoln in the Telegraph Office. New York: Century Co.
1926 Published Lincoln Stories Told by Him in the Military Office in the War Department during the Civil War. New York: W. E. Rudge
1926, June l5 Died
Sunday, Billy
1862, Nov. 19 Born near Ames, Iowa
1872 Sent by impoverished mother to orphanage in Glenwood, Iowa
1880 Moved to Marshalltown, Iowa
1883 Signed to play baseball by the Chicago White Stockings baseball club
1886-1887 Converted to Christianity and began attending the Presbyterian Church
1888 Sold to the Pittsburgh Alleghenys baseball club
Married Helen Amelia Thompson
1890-1891 Played for the Philadelphia Phillies before retiring from baseball
1891 Became assistant secretary of the Chicago, Ill., YMCA
1896-1935 Conducted Christian evangelistic meetings throughout the country; credited with giving more than twenty thousand sermons to audiences totaling more than one hundred million people
1903 Ordained by the Presbyterian Church
1935, Nov. 6 Died, Chicago, Ill.
1874 Born, Staten Island, N.Y.
1915-1919 Social secretary to Edith Bolling Galt Wilson
1919 Accompanied the presidential party to the Peace Conference, Paris, France
1920 Married Rear Admiral James M. Helm (died 1927)
1933-1953 White House social secretary to Eleanor Roosevelt and Bess Wallace Truman
1954 Published The Captains and the Kings. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
1962, Aug. 7 Died, Washington, D.C.
1843, Aug. 11 Born, Berlin, Prussia
1866-1883 Posted intermittently by British foreign service to Washington, D.C.
1867 Married Cecilia Riggs (died 1907)
1871-1875 Aided in preparation of Treaty of Washington to settle Anglo-American claims
Oversaw distribution of payments to United States
1874 Reposted to Hague, Netherlands
circa 1875 Served as secretary, Royal Commission on Fugitive Slaves
1883 Posted to Guatemala
1885 Posted to Greece
1886 Posted to Copenhagen, Denmark
1887-1890 Posted to Peking, China
1890 Secretary and then minister plenipotentiary, St. Petersburg, Russia
1894 Posted to Paris, France
circa 1896-circa 1908 Served at Hague, Netherlands
1899 Member British delegation, Peace Conference, Hague, Netherlands
1907 Received Order of the Bath
1914-1916 Served as first British minister to the Vatican since 1687
1921, May 4 Died, Rome, Italy
1742, Jan. 23 Born near Charleston, S.C.
1767 Married Alice DeLancy (died 1832)
1771-1776 Resided in London, England, and Paris, France
1776-1779 Served as commissioner to the Court of Tuscany for the Continental Congress
1780 Pledged his estate in South Carolina for the payment of warships to be used in the American Revolution
1782-1783 Member, Continental Congress
1789-1796 Served in United States Senate; president pro tempore of the senate
1804, May 30 Died, near Charleston, S.C.
1742, Jan. 23 Born near Charleston, S.C.
1767 Married Alice DeLancy (died 1832)
1771-1776 Resided in London, England, and Paris, France
1776-1779 Served as commissioner to the Court of Tuscany for the Continental Congress
1780 Pledged his estate in South Carolina for the payment of warships to be used in the American Revolution
1782-1783 Member, Continental Congress
1789-1796 Served in United States Senate; president pro tempore of the senate
1804, May 30 Died, near Charleston, S.C.
1818, Feb. 6 Born, Boston, Mass.
1833-1837 Attended Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1836 Cofounder of Yale Literary Magazine
1837 Read law, office of Horace Everett, Windsor, Vt.
1841 Admitted to the bar in New York
Began law practice
1843 Married Helen Minerva Wardner
1849-1853 Assistant district attorney, Southern District of New York
1860 Delegate to Republican national convention, Chicago, Ill.
1863 Sent to England by United States to help prevent equipping of the Confederate navy by the British
1868 Counsel for the defense, impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson
1868-1869 Attorney general
1872 Represented the United States in Alabama claims case, Geneva, Switzerland
1877 Chief counsel for Republican Party, Hayes-Tilden presidential election dispute
1877-1881 Secretary of state
1881 Delegate, International Monetary Conference, Paris, France
1885-1891 United States senator from New York
1901, Feb. 28 Died, New York, N.Y.
1759, Sept. 30 Born, Surry County, Va.
1776 Founder with others of Phi Beta Kappa (president, 1778-1781)
1779 Graduated, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
1783-1784 Member, Executive Council of Virginia
1785-1789 Private secretary to Thomas Jefferson and later secretary of American legation, Paris, France
1789-1792 Chargé d’affaires, Paris, France
1790 Commissioned by Alexander Hamilton to handle debt funding
1792-1793 Minister at Hague, Netherlands
1793-1795 Joint commissioner with William Carmichael and later minister resident, Madrid, Spain
1795-1802 Resided in Paris, France
1802 Returned to the United States
1809 Appointment as minister to Russia rejected by the U.S. Senate
1809-1810 Resided in Paris, France
1810 Established residence in Philadelphia, Pa.
1810-1849 Amassed a fortune through investments and extensive land purchases
1849, Dec. 5 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
1842, July 2 Born, Princess Anne, Md.
1860 Educated, Washington Academy, Maryland
1861-1865 Civil War service, private to captain
1869-1870 Commissioned lieutenant colonel, Egyptian Army; professor of French, military school, Cairo, Egypt
1871-1873 Served Alexandria infantry, General Staff, Cairo, Egypt
1874-1877 Chief of staff to Charles George Gordon
1874 Executed treaty annexing Uganda to Egypt; documented Lake Ibrahim, Nile Valley; promoted to colonel
1877 Published Central Africa: Naked Truths of Naked People. New York: Harper & Brothers
1880 Graduated, Columbia University Law School, New York, N.Y.
1881 Served international tribunals, Alexandria, Egypt
1882 United States consul, Alexandria, Egypt, during bombardment of the city by the British Mediterranean Fleet; decorated Cross of Commander of the Osmanieh
1883 Practiced international law, Paris, France
1884 Published The Three Prophets. New York: D. Appleton and Co.
1887-1889 United States consul general to Korea; explored Qualelpart Island and Han River
1890 Married Marie Amelie Hammond
1891 Published Les Sources du Nil. Rouen: Impr. de E. Cagniard
1897-1900 Served U.S. special commissions, Paris, France
1901 Decorated, Légion d'Honneur
1908-1916? Editorial staff member, Washington Sunday Star
1917, Mar. 24 Died, buried in Arlington National Cemetery, Washington, D.C.
1830, Oct. 15 Born, Bovina, N.Y.
1852 Graduated, Union College, Schenectady. N.Y.
1857-1863 Principal, Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.
1863 Ph.D., University of New York
1863-1873 Professor of mathematics, Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N.J.
1867 Married Martha A. Neilson
1873-1879 Superintendent of educational affairs, Japan
1880-1889 Secretary, Board of Regents, University of New York
1892-1905 Member and secretary, Board of Trustees, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J.
1894 Published The Story of Japan. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons
1899 Published History of Education in New Jersey. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office
1905, Mar. 6 Died, New Brunswick, N.J.
William Shippen Jr.
1736, Oct. 21 Born, Philadelphia, Pa.
1750 Entered the College of New Jersey, Princeton, N.J. (later reorganized as the Princeton University)
1754 Graduated, College of New Jersey
1758 Traveled to Europe to study medicine
1760 Married Alice Lee (died 1801)
1761 M.D., University of Edinburgh, Scotland
1762 Returned to Philadelphia, entered medical practice there with his father, and began teaching anatomy and midwifery
1765 Began teaching surgery and anatomy at the newly organized medical school of the College of Philadelphia (later reorganized as the University of Pennsylvania).
1777 Appointed director of Continental Army hospitals during the Revolutionary War
1780 Court-martialed for speculating in hospital supplies, acquitted
1781 Resigned from his directorship of the Continental Army hospitals
1791 Joined the staff of the Pennsylvania Hospital; remained until 1802
1805 Became president, College of Physicians of Philadelphia
1808, July 11 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
Ann ("Nancy") Home Shippen Livingston
1763, Feb. 24 Born, Shippensburg, Pa.
1781 Engaged to Louis-Guillaume Otto of the French delegation in Philadelphia. Married, and separated from, Henry Beekman Livingston
Birth of daughter Margaret ("Peggy") Beekman Livingston
1783 Shared custody of Peggy Livingston with Livingston family after Peggy went to live with her Livingston grandmother in New York
1841, Aug. 25 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thomas Lee Shippen
1765 Born, Philadelphia, Pa.
1784 Returned to Philadelphia after studying law in Williamsburg, Va.
1785-1789 Traveled in Europe; met Thomas Jefferson in Paris and received advice from him about travel; studied law at the Middle Temple, London
1789 Returned to Philadelphia
1791 Married Elizabeth Carter Farley Bannister
1798, Feb. 4 Died, Charleston, S.C.
William Shippen Jr.
1736, Oct. 21 Born, Philadelphia, Pa.
1750 Entered the College of New Jersey, Princeton, N.J. (later reorganized as the Princeton University)
1754 Graduated, College of New Jersey
1758 Traveled to Europe to study medicine
1760 Married Alice Lee (died 1801)
1761 M.D., University of Edinburgh, Scotland
1762 Returned to Philadelphia, entered medical practice there with his father, and began teaching anatomy and midwifery
1765 Began teaching surgery and anatomy at the newly organized medical school of the College of Philadelphia (later reorganized as the University of Pennsylvania).
1777 Appointed director of Continental Army hospitals during the Revolutionary War
1780 Court-martialed for speculating in hospital supplies, acquitted
1781 Resigned from his directorship of the Continental Army hospitals
1791 Joined the staff of the Pennsylvania Hospital; remained until 1802
1805 Became president, College of Physicians of Philadelphia
1808, July 11 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
Ann ("Nancy") Home Shippen Livingston
1763, Feb. 24 Born, Shippensburg, Pa.
1781 Engaged to Louis-Guillaume Otto of the French delegation in Philadelphia. Married, and separated from, Henry Beekman Livingston
Birth of daughter Margaret ("Peggy") Beekman Livingston
1783 Shared custody of Peggy Livingston with Livingston family after Peggy went to live with her Livingston grandmother in New York
1841, Aug. 25 Died, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thomas Lee Shippen
1765 Born, Philadelphia, Pa.
1784 Returned to Philadelphia after studying law in Williamsburg, Va.
1785-1789 Traveled in Europe; met Thomas Jefferson in Paris and received advice from him about travel; studied law at the Middle Temple, London
1789 Returned to Philadelphia
1791 Married Elizabeth Carter Farley Bannister
1798, Feb. 4 Died, Charleston, S.C.
1788, May 23 Born, Northhampton, Mass.
1813 Married Susan Aspinwall (died 1853)
1828-circa 1837 Partner with brother Arthur and credit manager, Arthur Tappan & Co., silk jobbers in New York, N.Y.
1828-1831 Owned and published Journal of Commerce, New York, N.Y.
1833 One of the founders of the New York Anti-Slavery Society and the American Anti-Slavery Society
1839-1841 Member of the committee that undertook to secure the freedom of the captives on the slave ship Amistad
1840 Founder and first treasurer, American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society
1841-1849 Established and operated the Mercantile Agency, the first commercial credit-rating agency in America, under the firm name of Lewis Tappan & Co.
1843 Attended General Anti-slavery Convention, London, England
1846 A founder of the American Missionary Association
1850, ca. Participated, after passage of the Fugitive Slave Law, in “underground railroad” activities
1854 Married Mrs. Sarah J. Davis
1855 Joined the American Abolition Society
1870 Published The Life of Arthur Tappan. New York: Hurd and Houghton
1873, June 21 Died, Brooklyn, N.Y.
In 1972, Terri P. Tepper, cofounder and director of the Center for a Woman’s Own Name, petitioned the 19th Judicial Circuit Court of Illinois to change her surname and to recognize Ms. as a legal title. The petition was granted, making Tepper the first woman in Illinois to regain her chosen name after marriage and marking the first time the State of Illinois recognized Ms. as a legally designated title. The material in this collection relates to Tepper's name change petition and the creation of the Center for a Woman’s Own Name and contains only passing references to the legal recognition of Ms.
The Center for a Woman’s Own Name began informally in 1973 when Tepper placed an advertisement in Ms. magazine seeking information on state law and policies relating to women’s names. The Center was incorporated later that year, with Tepper as director and president; Priscilla Ruth MacDougall as director, vice president, and legal consultant; and Diana Altman as director. The Center developed into a clearinghouse for information concerning state laws, lawsuits, and various legal and social issues relating to women’s efforts to retain their chosen name after marriage. The Center did not advocate that women retain their maiden names after marriage; instead, the Center maintained that women had a right to determine their legal name irrespective of their marital status.
Through a network of volunteers, the Center tracked legal opinions and on-going lawsuits on a state-by-state basis. With correspondence from the general public, prominent individuals, national organizations, and government officials, the collection’s strength lies in its ability to document the evolving societal attitudes and legal opinions around the name issue as well as individual and institutional responses to women maintaining their own names after marriage.
Terri P. Tepper
1942, May 29 Born Denver, Colo.
1964 B.S., education, Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1964, Aug. 23 Married Lawrence Jay Weiner
1964-1970 Elementary school teacher, Barrington, Ill. and Chicago, Ill.
1972 In re Weiner
1973 President, National Organization for Women. North Suburban Chicago Chapter, Techny, Ill.
1973 Outstanding Achievement award, National Organization for Women. North Suburban Chicago Chapter, Techny, Ill.
1973-1984 Founder, president, and director, Center for a Woman’s Own Name, Barrington, Ill.
1974 Published with Diana Altman and Priscilla Ruth MacDougall Booklet for Women Who Wish to Determine Their Own Names After Marriage. Center for a Woman’s Own Name: Barrington, Ill.
1976-1984 Founder and director, Consumer Credit Project, Barrington, Ill.
1980 Published with Nona Dawe Tepper, The New Entrepreneurs: Women Working from Home. New York: Universe Books
1981 B.A., photography, Columbia College, Chicago, Ill.
1982 One-woman photography exhibition, Chicago Cultural Center, Chicago, Ill.
1984-1985 President, Illinois Council on Home Based Enterprise
2007- Trainer and owner, The Cultivated Canine, Barrington, Ill.
Terri P. Tepper
1942, May 29 Born Denver, Colo.
1964 B.S., education, Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1964, Aug. 23 Married Lawrence Jay Weiner
1964-1970 Elementary school teacher, Barrington, Ill. and Chicago, Ill.
1972 In re Weiner
1973 President, National Organization for Women. North Suburban Chicago Chapter, Techny, Ill.
1973 Outstanding Achievement award, National Organization for Women. North Suburban Chicago Chapter, Techny, Ill.
1973-1984 Founder, president, and director, Center for a Woman’s Own Name, Barrington, Ill.
1974 Published with Diana Altman and Priscilla Ruth MacDougall Booklet for Women Who Wish to Determine Their Own Names After Marriage. Center for a Woman’s Own Name: Barrington, Ill.
1976-1984 Founder and director, Consumer Credit Project, Barrington, Ill.
1980 Published with Nona Dawe Tepper, The New Entrepreneurs: Women Working from Home. New York: Universe Books
1981 B.A., photography, Columbia College, Chicago, Ill.
1982 One-woman photography exhibition, Chicago Cultural Center, Chicago, Ill.
1984-1985 President, Illinois Council on Home Based Enterprise
2007- Trainer and owner, The Cultivated Canine, Barrington, Ill.
1903, Dec. 28 Born, New York, N.Y.
1921 Graduated, Rosemary Hall, Greenwich, Conn.
1926 Married Walter C. Louchheim
1926-1927 Attended Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1945-1946 Assistant to the director of public information, United Nations Relief and Recovery Administration
1945 Special assignment to displaced persons camps, Germany
1948 Delegate from the District of Columbia, Democratic National Convention, Philadelphia, Pa.
1949 Member, District of Columbia Democratic Party Central Committee
1949-1952 Coauthor, For Women Only column, Labor's League for Political Education
1952 Delegate from the District of Columbia and platform committee member, Democratic National Convention, Chicago, Ill.
1953-1956 Director for women's activities, Democratic National Committee
1956-1960 Vice chairman, Democratic National Committee
1956-1961 Democratic Party national committeewoman, District of Columbia
1961-1962 Special assistant on women's affairs, State Department
1962-1963 Deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs, State Department
1963-1966 Deputy assistant secretary of state for community advisory services, State Department
1966 Published With or Without Roses. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday and Co.
1966-1968 Deputy assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs, State Department
1968-1969 United States ambassador, Unesco
1970 Published By the Political Sea. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday and Co.
1971-1973 Contributor, Washington Post and Christian Science Monitor
1983 Published The Making of the New Deal. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press
1991, Feb. 11 Died, New York, N.Y.
1925, Feb. 27 Born, Camden, N.J.
1943-1945 Pilot, United States Army Air Force in Italy
1946 Married Sara Goldhirsh
1947 B.S., Temple University, Philadelphia, Pa.
1949 Founder and first president, Harvard Voluntary Defenders, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., an early student clinical program to aid indigent defendants
1950 J.D., cum laude, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1951-1952 Trial attorney, Appellate Section, Criminal Division, United States Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.
1952-1956 Assistant and later district attorney, Philadelphia, Pa.
1955-1962 Member, Advisory Committee on the Model Penal Code, American Law Institute
1957-1958 Director, Philadelphia Bar Association Endowment Study of Electronic Eavesdropping, Philadelphia, Pa.
1958-1963 Partner in law firm, Dash and Levy, Philadelphia, Pa.
1958-1965 Member, Pennsylvania Supreme Court and Superior Court Criminal Procedural Rules Committee
1959 Published with Richard F. Schwartz and Robert E. Knowlton, Eavesdroppers. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press
1963-1965 Executive director, Philadelphia Council for Community Advancement, a poverty program experiment sponsored by the city of Philadelphia, Pa.
1965-1971 Executive director, Committee on Laws Pertaining to Mental Disorders, Judicial Conference of the District of Columbia Circuit
1965-2003 Professor of law, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
Director, Institute of Criminal Law and Procedure, Georgetown University Law Center, Washington, D.C.
1966-1972 Special consultant, Standards on Prosecution Function and Defense Function, Project on Standards for Criminal Justice, American Bar Association
1967-1972 Council member, Section of Criminal Justice, American Bar Association; chairman in 1971; delegate in 1972
1968-1975 Member, Board of Trustees, Public Defenders Service, Washington, D.C.
1970-1971 Chairman, Section of Criminal Law, American Bar Association
1972 Observer and mediator, International League for Human Rights, during the tribunal of inquiry into the “Bloody Sunday” incident in Northern Ireland
Published Justice Denied: A Challenge to Lord Widgery's Report on “Bloody Sunday.” New York: Defense and Education Fund of the International League for the Rights of Man
Observer, International League for the Rights of Man and American Jewish Committee, during contact with members of the Human Rights Committee in Moscow, as well as scientists, engineers, and Jewish activists in Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev, and Kharkov, Soviet Union
1972-circa 1990 Consultant to attorney general and government of Puerto Rico
1973-1974 Chief counsel and staff director, United States Senate Select Committee on Presidential Activities (Watergate Affair)
1975 Member, Special Committee on Crime Prevention and Control, American Bar Association
1975-1978 Member, Governing Board, Common Cause
1976 Published Chief Counsel: Inside the Ervin Committee–The Untold Story of Watergate. New York: Random House
1976-1977 Principal investigator for Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, examination of the firing of a special prosecutor investigating police corruption, Philadelphia, Pa.
1977 Fulbright scholar and visiting professor, University of Melbourne and Monash University School of Law, Australia
1977-1981 Consultant, Law Reform Commission of Australia
1981-circa 2003 Director, Appellate Litigation Clinic, Georgetown University Law Center, Washington, D.C.
1981- ? Member, United States Court of Appeals Judicial Conference, Standing Committee on Pro Se andProBono Matters
1984-1990 Member, Standing Committee on Ethics and Professional Responsibility, American Bar Association
1984-1992 Special counsel to president of the Senate of Puerto Rico, Cerro Maravilla investigation
1985 Chief counsel, Alaska state senate, impeachment inquiry of Governor Bill Sheffield
First American permitted by South Africa to interview Nelson Mandela during his incarceration
1987-1990 Chairman, Special Committee on Criminal Justice in a Free Society, Section of Criminal Justice, American Bar Association
1988-1987 Member, Task Force to Revise Standards on Prosecution Function and Defense Function
1990-1992 Member, Special Committee on the Drug Crisis, American Bar Association
1991- ? Mediator, United States District Court Mediation Program, United States District Court for the District of Columbia
1994 -1998 Ethics advisor to Kenneth Starr, Whitewater Inquiry independent counsel
circa 1997 Mediator, Appellate Mediation Program, United States Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit
2002 Member, Code of Ethics Subcommittee, United Way of the National Capital Area
2004 Published The Intruders: Unreasonable Searches and Seizures from King John to John Ashcroft. New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press
2004, May 29 Died, Washington, D.C.
1894, Dec. 2 Born, Danbury, Nebr.
1918 Graduated, Nebraska State Teachers College, Kearney, Nebr.
1918-1919 Staff writer, Kearny Daily Hub, Kearney, Nebr.
1919-1929 News feature and Sunday magazine writer, Omaha Bee-News
1929-1937 News staff reporter, Associated Press, Washington, D.C.
1932 Married Robert Burns Armstrong (died 1955)
1937-1941 Partner with her sister, Lucile N. Furman, in Furman Features, a press and radio consultant and writing service used especially by women's organizations
1941-1943 Assistant chief, Magazine Division, Office of War Information
1943-1961 Staff writer, New York Times
1949 Published Washington By-Line. New York: A. A. Knopf
1951 Published White House Profile. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill
1962 Appointed head, press information section, Department of Health, Education and Welfare
Published Progress in Prosthetics. Washington, D.C.: Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, U.S. Department of Heal, Education and Welfare
1969 Died, Woodacres, Md.
1973 Posthumous publication with Ralph C. Williams of A Profile of the United States Public Health Service, 1798-1948. Bethesda, Md.: National Institutes of Health
1860, May 25 Born, Easton, Pa.
1880 Graduated, Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.
1882 Studied at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1883 M.A., Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.
1883-1886 Research assistant to Wilhelm Wundt
1886 Ph.D., University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany
1886-1888 Fellow, St. John's College, Cambridge University, Cambridge, England, and lectured at Cambridge
1887-1891 Professor of psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1891-1917 Professor of psychology, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1894-1903 Editor, Psychological Review
1895 President, American Psychological Association
1900-1915 Editor, Popular Science Monthly
1904-1915 Editor, Science
1915-1943 Founder and editor, Scientific Monthly
1917 Dismissed from Columbia University, New York, N.Y., because of his opposition to the military draft in World War I
1944, Jan. 20 Died, Lancaster, Pa.
1763, Jan. 8 Born in France
1777 Secretary to his father in the Bureau of Interpretations, Ministry of Foreign Affairs
1780 Student, Gressen and Berlin, Germany
1780-1781 Served in secretariat of Baron de Breteuil, Vienna, Austria
1781-1783 Assumed offices held by his father
1783 Acting secretary, French legation in England
1787 Sent to French embassy, St. Petersburg, Russia
1789 Chargé ďaffaires, French embassy, St. Petersburg, Russia
1792 Expelled from Russia
Appointed French minister plenipotentiary to the United States
1793 Arrived at Charleston, S. C.
Toured eastern United States
Recalled from United States
1794 Purchased a farm on Long Island, N.Y.
Married Cornelia Tappen Clinton
1800 Moved to a farm in Rensselaer County, N. Y.
1814 Married Martha Brandon Osgood
1834, July 15 Died
1896, Dec. 24 Born, Lockport, N.Y.
1918 A.B., University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.
1922 Ph.D., University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1922-1943 Professor of political science, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1928 Married Florence Lucy Fake (died 1991)
1932 Member, editorial staff, President’s Research Commission on Social Trends
1937-1939 Research consultant, National Resources Committee
1940 Research consultant, Bureau of the Budget
1941-1942 Research consultant, Office of Price Administration
1942-1946 Research consultant, Bureau of the Budget
1946-1950 Research consultant, State Department
1946-1962 Adjunct professor of political science, American University, Washington, D.C.
1950s Research consultant, Central Intelligence Agency
1955 Visiting professor, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
1960-1961 Research scientist, Special Operations Research Office
1962-1970 Professor of government, Howard University, Washington, D.C.
1997, Jan. 8 Died, Bethesda, Md.
1900, Dec. 17 Born Benjamin Grefenson, Effingham, Ill.
1919 Joined Industrial Workers of the World
1920 Married Jennie Cooperman
1921 Joined Communist Party of America, Erie, Pa.
1923-1931 Held positions in Communist Party districts in New York, Ohio, and Pennsylvania
1928 Became national committee member, Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA)
1931 Named national organizer of unemployed for the CPUSA
Led National Hunger March to Washington, D.C.
1931-1935 National secretary, Unemployed Councils
1932 Led second National Hunger March to Washington, D.C.
1935-1940 General secretary-treasurer, Workers Alliance of America
193? Married Lillian Gerber
1940 Conducted a national “party building tour” to promote the CPUSA
1940-1942 General executive board member and national executive secretary, International Workers Order
1942-1944 Head of Communist Party in Missouri
194[?]-195[?] Owner and operator, Metropolitan News Agency, Washington, D.C.
Manager, Trenton Terrace Apartments, Washington, D.C.
1953-1978 Merchant, Pottery Fair, Washington, D.C.
1983, May 10 Died, Rockville, Md.
1892, May 30 Born, La Cygne, Kans.
1913 Married Olive Vincent Ewing (died 1968)
1913-1916 Attended University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.
1916 Joined staff of Kansas City Star
1923-1928 Night manager and chief political writer, Washington, D.C., bureau, United Press
1929-1934 Chief, Washington, D.C., bureau, United Press
1930 Reported on London naval conference, London, England
1933 Published Racketeering in Washington. Boston: L. C. Page & Co.
1934-1936 Chief, Washington, D.C. bureau, Washington Post
1936 Newspaper column, “Between You and Me,” syndicated by Scripps-Howard
1939 President, Gridiron Club, Washington, D.C.
1942 Began hosting radio program, Mutual Broadcasting System
1944, circa Jan. 29 Killed in airplane crash over the Marshall Islands while war correspondent in the Pacific
George Gamow
1904, Mar. 4 Born Georgii Antonovic Gamov, Odessa, Russia
1928 Ph.D., physical science, University of Leningrad, Leningrad, USSR
1928-1929 Institute of Theoretical Physics, Copenhagen, Denmark
1929-1930 Rockefeller fellow, Cambridge University, Cambridge, England
1931 Married Lyubov Rho Vokhminzeva (divorced 1956)
Published The Constitution of Atomic Nuclei and Radioactivity. Oxford: Clarendon Press
1931-1933 Professor, University of Leningrad, Leningrad, USSR
1933-1934 Lecturer, Paris, France, London, England, and University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1934-1956 Professor of physics, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1935 Collaborated with Edward Teller on the theory of beta-decay, and formulated the so-called "Gamow-Teller Selection Rule for Beta Emission"
1939 Proposed neutrino theory of supernovae
Published Mr. Tompkins in Wonderland. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
1940 Became naturalized American citizen
Published The Birth and Death of the Sun. New York: Viking Press
1941 Published Biography of the Earth; Its Past, Present, and Future. New York: Viking Press
1942 Shell model of red giant stars
1947 Published One, Two, Three...Infinity. New York: Viking Press
1948 Theory of the origin of chemical elements
1952 Published The Creation of the Universe. New York: Viking Press
1956 Awarded Kalinga Prize by Unesco for popularization of science
1956-1968 Professor of physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.
1958 Published Matter, Earth, and Sky. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall
Married Barbara Merrihew Perkins
1961 Published Biography of Physics. New York: Harper
1968, Aug. 20 Died, Boulder, Colo.
1970 Posthumous publication My World Line. New York: Viking Press
Barbara Gamow
1905, May 22 Born Barbara Merrihew Perkins, San Francisco, Calif.
1938 Married J. R. de la Torre Bueno (divorced circa 1943)
circa 1950-1958 Employed by Cambridge University Press
1958 Married George Gamow
1976 Died
George Gamow
1904, Mar. 4 Born Georgii Antonovic Gamov, Odessa, Russia
1928 Ph.D., physical science, University of Leningrad, Leningrad, USSR
1928-1929 Institute of Theoretical Physics, Copenhagen, Denmark
1929-1930 Rockefeller fellow, Cambridge University, Cambridge, England
1931 Married Lyubov Rho Vokhminzeva (divorced 1956)
Published The Constitution of Atomic Nuclei and Radioactivity. Oxford: Clarendon Press
1931-1933 Professor, University of Leningrad, Leningrad, USSR
1933-1934 Lecturer, Paris, France, London, England, and University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1934-1956 Professor of physics, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1935 Collaborated with Edward Teller on the theory of beta-decay, and formulated the so-called "Gamow-Teller Selection Rule for Beta Emission"
1939 Proposed neutrino theory of supernovae
Published Mr. Tompkins in Wonderland. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
1940 Became naturalized American citizen
Published The Birth and Death of the Sun. New York: Viking Press
1941 Published Biography of the Earth; Its Past, Present, and Future. New York: Viking Press
1942 Shell model of red giant stars
1947 Published One, Two, Three...Infinity. New York: Viking Press
1948 Theory of the origin of chemical elements
1952 Published The Creation of the Universe. New York: Viking Press
1956 Awarded Kalinga Prize by Unesco for popularization of science
1956-1968 Professor of physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.
1958 Published Matter, Earth, and Sky. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall
Married Barbara Merrihew Perkins
1961 Published Biography of Physics. New York: Harper
1968, Aug. 20 Died, Boulder, Colo.
1970 Posthumous publication My World Line. New York: Viking Press
Barbara Gamow
1905, May 22 Born Barbara Merrihew Perkins, San Francisco, Calif.
1938 Married J. R. de la Torre Bueno (divorced circa 1943)
circa 1950-1958 Employed by Cambridge University Press
1958 Married George Gamow
1976 Died
Poet Juan Ramón Jiménez was born in 1881 in Moguer, Spain. He published his first book of poetry in 1900 with the help of Rubén Darío, the leader of the modernista poetry movement in Spain and influential mentor of Jiménez. During the Spanish Civil War, Jiménez moved first to Cuba and then to Puerto Rico where he spent most of the rest of his life. He was the recipient of the 1956 Nobel Prize in Literature. Jiménez died in San Juan, Puerto Rico in 1958.
1829, Apr. 30 Born, Wayne County, Ohio
1852 Married Sarah Clark
1854-1861 Editor and publisher, Zanesville, Ohio
1861-1867 Employed in the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury, Treasury Department, Washington D.C.
1867 Purchased an interest in the Washington Evening Star
1867 Elected president, Evening Star Company
1894 Became president, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
1906, Mar. 15 Died, Washington, D.C.
1856, Dec. 11 Born, Milwaukee, Wis.
1871-1875 Attended Racine College, Racine, Wis.
1880 Graduated, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1881 Engineer, Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway
1893 Married Emerin Price Semple
1899-1902 Member, Wisconsin legislature
1903-1905 United States consular officer, Florence, Italy
1905-1915 United States consular officer, Geneva, Switzerland
1915-1917 United States consular officer, Zurich, Switzerland
1917-1924 United States counsel general, Rome, Italy
1923 Published Lyrics of the Links. London: C. Palmer
1924 Retired in Rome, Italy
1942 Returned to the United States
1945 Died, Washington, D.C.
1781, Apr. 20 Born, Long Meadow, Mass.
1802 Graduated, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1805-1821 Pastor, Congregational church, Blanford, Mass.
1821-1833 Pastor, Congregational church, Homer, N.Y.
1834 Organized Congregational church, Cleveland, Ohio
1834-1870 Trustee, Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio; cast vote in 1835 that allowed black students to enter Oberlin College
1839-1840 Toured England with William Dawes collecting funds for Oberlin College
1840 Attended with William Dawes, Anti-slavery convention, London, England
1870, Feb. 11 Died, Oberlin, Ohio
Eugenio María de Hostos
1839, Jan. 11 Born, Mayagüez, Puerto Rico
1852 Studied at the Institute of Bilbao and the University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain
1860 J.D., Central University of Madrid Law School, Madrid, Spain
1860-1869 Active in Spanish politics, advocating the independence of Puerto Rico and Cuba
1863 Published La peregrinacion de Bayoán. Madrid: Imprenta del Comercio
1869 Banished from Spain after denouncing Emelio Castelar, Spain’s first republican president, for refusing to grant independence to Puerto Rico and Cuba
Emigrated to the United States and became editor of La revolución, newspaper of the Cuban Revolutionary Junta of pro-independence Cuban exiles in New York City
1870 Toured South America to generate support for the Puerto Rican and Cuban independence movements and to promote education reforms
1871?-1874? Teacher, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1872 Published Hamlet: ensayo crítico. Santiago: Imprenta de Ferrocarril
1875 Editor, Las tres Antillas, Dominican Republic
1877 Married Belinda Otilia de Ayala, daughter of a Cuban emigré, in Venezuela
1880-1888 Inspector general of public instruction, Dominican Republic
1887 Published Lecciones de derecho constitucional. Santo Domingo: Cuna de América
1888 Published Moral social. Santo Domingo: Imprenta de Garcia Hermanos
1888-1890 Headmaster, Miguel Luis Amunátequi secondary school, Chile
1890-1898 Professor, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1895 Published Geografía evolutiva. Santiago de Chile: R. Miranda
1898 Returned to Puerto Rico to work for Puerto Rican and Cuban independence
Formed the League of Puerto Rican Patriots
1899 Led commission to President William McKinley to ask for Puerto Rican freedom
1903, Aug. 11 Died, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Eugenio Carlos de Hostos
1879, Aug. 26 Born, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, son of Eugenio María de Hostos
1896 Graduated, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1898 Graduated, Chilean Army Military Academy
1901 Graduated, University of Santo Domingo Law School, Dominican Republic
1905 Second Lieutenant, Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry, U.S. Army
1906 Promoted to first lieutenant
1913-1916 Aide-de-camp to the governor of Puerto Rico
1914 Married Josefa Adela (“Mignon”) MacCormick (died 1958)
1916 Promoted to captain
1917-1919 Stationed at Camp E. S. Otis, Panama Canal Zone, with the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry. Military Intelligence Service, missions to Columbia, Chiriqui, Panama Republic, and Guatemala. Commanding officer, 1918
1918-1919 Promoted to major, then to lieutenant colonel and made battalion commander
1919 Returned to Puerto Rico with the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry
1924 Reserve officer, U.S. Army
1935 Purchased as family home the castle of Sotomayor, Pontevedra, Spain
1940 Published with Adolfo de Hostos Indice hemero-bibliográfico de Eugenio María de Hostos. Havana: Cultural, s.a.
1952 Published Antología. Prólogo por Pedro Henríquez Ureña; selección, arreglo y apéndice por Eugenio Carlos de Hostos (editor). Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
Published Hostos, hispanoamericanista: colección de ensayos acerca de Eugenio María de Hostos (editor). Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
1953 Published Eugenio María de Hostos, Promoter of Panamericanism. Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
1954 Published España y América. Prólogo por Francisco Elías de Tejada. Recopilación y arreglo por Eugenio Carlos de Hostos (editor). Paris: Ediciones Literarias y Artísticas
1959, May 27 Died, Madrid, Spain
Eugenio María de Hostos
1839, Jan. 11 Born, Mayagüez, Puerto Rico
1852 Studied at the Institute of Bilbao and the University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain
1860 J.D., Central University of Madrid Law School, Madrid, Spain
1860-1869 Active in Spanish politics, advocating the independence of Puerto Rico and Cuba
1863 Published La peregrinacion de Bayoán. Madrid: Imprenta del Comercio
1869 Banished from Spain after denouncing Emelio Castelar, Spain’s first republican president, for refusing to grant independence to Puerto Rico and Cuba
Emigrated to the United States and became editor of La revolución, newspaper of the Cuban Revolutionary Junta of pro-independence Cuban exiles in New York City
1870 Toured South America to generate support for the Puerto Rican and Cuban independence movements and to promote education reforms
1871?-1874? Teacher, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1872 Published Hamlet: ensayo crítico. Santiago: Imprenta de Ferrocarril
1875 Editor, Las tres Antillas, Dominican Republic
1877 Married Belinda Otilia de Ayala, daughter of a Cuban emigré, in Venezuela
1880-1888 Inspector general of public instruction, Dominican Republic
1887 Published Lecciones de derecho constitucional. Santo Domingo: Cuna de América
1888 Published Moral social. Santo Domingo: Imprenta de Garcia Hermanos
1888-1890 Headmaster, Miguel Luis Amunátequi secondary school, Chile
1890-1898 Professor, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1895 Published Geografía evolutiva. Santiago de Chile: R. Miranda
1898 Returned to Puerto Rico to work for Puerto Rican and Cuban independence
Formed the League of Puerto Rican Patriots
1899 Led commission to President William McKinley to ask for Puerto Rican freedom
1903, Aug. 11 Died, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Eugenio Carlos de Hostos
1879, Aug. 26 Born, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, son of Eugenio María de Hostos
1896 Graduated, University of Chile, Santiago, Chile
1898 Graduated, Chilean Army Military Academy
1901 Graduated, University of Santo Domingo Law School, Dominican Republic
1905 Second Lieutenant, Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry, U.S. Army
1906 Promoted to first lieutenant
1913-1916 Aide-de-camp to the governor of Puerto Rico
1914 Married Josefa Adela (“Mignon”) MacCormick (died 1958)
1916 Promoted to captain
1917-1919 Stationed at Camp E. S. Otis, Panama Canal Zone, with the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry. Military Intelligence Service, missions to Columbia, Chiriqui, Panama Republic, and Guatemala. Commanding officer, 1918
1918-1919 Promoted to major, then to lieutenant colonel and made battalion commander
1919 Returned to Puerto Rico with the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry
1924 Reserve officer, U.S. Army
1935 Purchased as family home the castle of Sotomayor, Pontevedra, Spain
1940 Published with Adolfo de Hostos Indice hemero-bibliográfico de Eugenio María de Hostos. Havana: Cultural, s.a.
1952 Published Antología. Prólogo por Pedro Henríquez Ureña; selección, arreglo y apéndice por Eugenio Carlos de Hostos (editor). Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
Published Hostos, hispanoamericanista: colección de ensayos acerca de Eugenio María de Hostos (editor). Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
1953 Published Eugenio María de Hostos, Promoter of Panamericanism. Madrid: Litografía y Encuadernación
1954 Published España y América. Prólogo por Francisco Elías de Tejada. Recopilación y arreglo por Eugenio Carlos de Hostos (editor). Paris: Ediciones Literarias y Artísticas
1959, May 27 Died, Madrid, Spain
1859, Mar. 26 Born, Worcestershire, England
1870-1877 Attended Bromsgrove School, Worcestershire, England
1877-1881 Attended St. John’s College, Oxford, England
1882-1892 Higher division clerk, Patent Office, London, England
1892 Professor of Latin, University College, London, England
1896 Published A Shropshire Lad. London: K. Paul, Trench, Trubner
1911 Kennedy professor of Latin, Cambridge University, Cambridge, England
1922 Published Last Poems. London: G. Richards
1936 Published More Poems. London: J. Cape
1936, Apr. 30 Died, Cambridge, England
1789, Aug. 16 Born, Dunstable, Mass.
1807 Completed secondary studies, Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.
1811 Graduated, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.Y.
1812-1814 Studied law, Groton, Mass.
1814 Moved to Kentucky; served as tutor in the household of Henry Clay
1816 Took charge of Argus of Western America, Frankfurt, Ky.
1818 Married Mary B. Woolfolk (died 1823)
1826 Changed political support from Henry Clay to Andrew Jackson
Married Jane Kyle.
1829-1837 Member of President Andrew Jackson’s inner circle of advisors, known informally as the “Kitchen Cabinet”
circa 1830s Edited and wrote for the Globe, a Jacksonian and Democratic organ published in Washington, D.C., and founded Kendall’s Expositor
1835-1840 Postmaster general
1843 Became agent for collection of claims against the government, including on behalf of Cherokee Indians
1845 Entered business partnership with Samuel Finley Breese Morse
1857 Helped found Columbia Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, which later became Gallaudet University, Washington, D.C.
1862 Helped found Calvary Baptist Church, Washington, D.C.
1869, Nov. 12 Died, Washington, D.C.
1896, Nov. 30 Born, Victoria, Tex.
1916 B.A., University of Texas, Austin, Tex.
1920 M.D., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1926-1927 Attended Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute, Berlin, Germany
1926 Married Alice Julia Benjamin
1931 Cofounder, New York Psychoanalytic Institute, New York, N.Y.
1932-1971 Cofounder and editor, Psychoanalytic Quarterly
1936-1937 President, New York Psychoanalytic Society, New York, N.Y.
1936-1943 Chairman, Emergency Committee on Relief and Immigration (helping European psychoanalysts escape Axis countries before and during World War II)
1946-1947 President, American Psychoanalytic Association
1950 Published The Psychoanalysis of Elation. New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
1955-1961 Director, Survey of Psychoanalytic Education, American Psychoanalytic Association
1960 Published Psychoanalytic Education in the United States, with Helen Ross. New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
1962-1971 Visiting professor of psychoanalysis, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pa.
1969 Publication of The Image and the Past. New York: W. W. Norton & Co.
1971, Jan. 12 Died, Pipersville, Pa.
1864, Oct. 17 Born, Watertown, N.Y.
1886 Graduated, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1889 Admitted to New York bar
1890 Married Eleanor Foster
1892-1893 Associate counsel for United States on Bering Sea fur-seal arbitrations
1896-1897 Counsel, United States Bering Sea Claims Commission
1903 American counsel, Alaskan Boundary Tribunal
1906 Helped found American Society of International Law
1907 Associate editor, American Journal of International Law
1909-1910 American counsel, Hague Tribunal for arbitration of the North Atlantic Fisheries
1912-1914 Agent of American-British Claims Arbitration
1914 Appointed counsellor for State Department
1915-1920 Secretary of state
1917 Lansing-Ishii Agreement
1918-1919 Member, American commission to negotiate peace at Paris, France
1921 Published The Big Four and Others of the Peace Conference. Boston and New York.
Published Notes on Sovereignty from the Standpoint of the State and the World. Washington, D.C.: The Endowment.
1920-1928 Member, firm of Lansing and Woolsey
1923 Counsel for China
Counsel for Persia
1923-1925 Counsel for Chile in Tacna-Arica Arbitration
1928, Oct. 30 Died, Washington, D.C.
1804, Aug. 31 Born, Attleboro, Mass.
1834 Married Louisa V. Snowden (died 1849)
1836-1851 Owner and superintendent of a cotton factory, Laurel, Md.
Became nationally known for progressive farming techniques
1854 Married Margaret Baker
1863 Commander and lieutenant colonel, 14th Illinois Cavalry
1865 Commander and brigadier general, United States Volunteers
1866 Served in United States Army
1867-1871 Commissioner of agriculture
1871-1875 On staff of Agriculture Commission; adviser to the Japanese government
1885, Feb. 22 Died, Washington, D.C.
1836, Sept. 1 Born, Cleveland, Ohio
1859 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1862 Married Sadie Pollack
1862 Took part in Peninsular Campaign; promoted to captain
1863 Promoted to colonel, 89th Ohio Infantry
1864 Took part in Atlanta Campaign
1865 Honorably mustered out of voluntary service
1870 Assigned to the 10th Cavalry
1876 Became major, 3rd Cavalry
1889 Promoted to lieutenant colonel, 7th Cavalry
1892 Promoted to colonel, 8th Cavalry
1897 Promoted to brigadier general; retired from army
1923, Mar. 21 Died, Atlantic City, N.J.
1898, Dec. 19 Born, Moberly, Mo.
1919, Nov. 27 Married Susan Elsie Manovill
1920 A.B., University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
1920-1960 Geologist, United States Geological Survey
1922-1924 Instructor of geology, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1950-1951 Director, American Geological Institute
1953 D.Sc., University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
1955-1956 Visiting professor of geology at California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif., and Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1960-1969 Professor of geology and geophysics, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.
1960-1974 Member, National Science Board
1974 Died, Los Angeles, Calif.
1828, Sept. 8 Born, Brewer, Maine
1852 Graduated, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine
1852-1855 Student, Bangor Theological Seminary, Bangor, Maine
1855 Married Fannie Adams
1855-1862 Taught, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine
1862 Appointed lieutenant colonel, 20th Maine Regiment
1863 Appointed colonel, 20th Maine Regiment
Fought at Battle of Gettysburg and awarded Congressional Medal of Honor for his defense of Little Round Top
1864 Promoted by Ulysses S. Grant to brigadier general of volunteers
1867-1871 Governor of Maine
1871-1883 President, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine
1893 Awarded Medal of Honor for actions at Battle of Gettysburg
1914, Feb. 24 Died, Portland, Maine
1880, Oct. 27 Born, Paterson, New Jersey
1902 Graduated from Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
First professional play, The Cavalier, produced
1903 Joined The Players, a club for representative members of the dramatic arts and other related professions
1911 Published Embers. New York: H. Holt and Co. (first volume of one-act plays)
Married Fola La Follette
1913 Joined the Authors League of America
Published Tradition. New York: H. Holt and Co.(second volume of one-act plays)
1915 Published Possession. New York: H. Holt and Co. (third volume of one-act plays)
Produced Hit-the-Trail-Holliday, play coauthored with Guy Bolton, adapted by George M. Cohan
1917 Produced Polly with a Past, play coauthored with Guy Bolton
1919 Produced Adam and Eva, play coauthored with Guy Bolton
1920 Published Masks. New York: S. French., fourth volume of one-act plays
1922 Elected to the Dutch Treat Club
1927-1929 President, Dramatists Guild
1928 Represented Authors League at Congress of the International Confederation of Societies of Authors and Composers, Berlin, Germany
1929-1931 Associate producer and writer, Fox Film Corporation in Hollywood
1933 Published Hiss! Boom!! Blah!!! New York: S. French
1936 Published That Was Balzac. New York: Random House
1942-1958 Technical specialist in copyright law, Office of Alien Property, Justice Department
1947 Published autobiography, These Things Are Mine. New York: Macmillan Co.
1955 Turnabout in manuscript form the first American play copyrighted under the New Universal Copyright convention
1957 Sustained Superior Performance Award, Justice Department
1967, Dec. 23 Died, Washington, D.C.
1872, Oct. 11 Born, Chesterfield, N.H.
1888-1890 Student, Massachusetts Agricultural College
1894 B.S., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1894-1895 Teacher, Newburyport high school, Newburyport, Mass.
1895-1896 Part-time teacher, Adelphi Academy, New York, N.Y.
1898 LL.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Admitted to the bar
1898-1899 Clerk, Sullivan and Cromwell
1898-1903 Lecturer, Columbia Law School, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1899 Married Agnes Harvey
1899-1905 Associated with Wilmer and Canfield
1903-1905 Adjunct professor of law, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1905-1910 Lawyer, Wilmer and Canfield
1910-1923 Professor of law and dean of the law faculty, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1923-1924 Head of litigation department, Sullivan and Cromwell
1924-1925 Attorney general of the United States
1925-1941 Associate justice, U.S. Supreme Court
1941-1946 Chief justice of the United States
1946, Apr. 22 Died, Washington, D.C.
1804, Jan. 28 Born, New Salem, Mass.
1823 Graduated Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.
1826 Admitted to Massachusetts bar
1828 Married Sarah Elizabeth Fessenden (died 1845)
1835-1840 Member, Maine House of Representatives
1841-1843 Member, United States House of Representatives from Maine
1849 Member, Massachusetts House of Representatives
1850-1853 United States consul to Hawaii
1853-1857 Minister of finance, Kingdom of Hawaii
1857 Married Mary Harrod Hobbs
1857-1877 Chancellor and Chief Justice of the Kingdom of Hawaii Supreme Court
1876 Negotiated the United States-Hawaii Reciprocity Treaty
1876-1883 United States minister to Hawaii
1883, Jan. 1 Died, Washington, D.C.
1871, Feb. 3 Born, Omaha, Nebr.
1894 B.A., University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1895 Edited with Charles L. Wells Outlines and Documents of English Constitutional History during the Middle Ages. Minneapolis: University Book Store
1895-1896 Taught, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1896-1897 Student, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1897-1914 Taught history, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1898 Married Mary G. Steele (died 1939)
1904 Published Constitutions and other Select Documents Illustrative of the History of France, 1789-1901. Minneapolis: H. W. Wilson Co.
1914-1941 Taught history, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.
1917-1920 Member, Executive Council, American Association of University Professors
1918 Published with Amos Shartle Hershey Handbook for the Diplomatic History of Europe, Asia, and Africa, 1870-1914. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office
1919 Attached to American Commission to Negotiate Peace, Paris, France
1926-1928 Member, Executive Council, American Historical Association
1941-1961 At work on "The Two Hundred Days of 1860-1861"
1944 Married Mary Maud Case
1948 Published Mystery of a "Public Man," a Historical Detective Story. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press
1961, Apr. 26 Died, St. Paul, Minn.
Amory Austin was born to Ivers James Austin and Elizabeth Turner Amory Austin on July 24, 1849, in Boston, Massachusetts. He received a bachelor's degree from Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1871 and an S. B. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, also in Cambridge, in 1873. He worked in analytical chemistry. In 1890, Austin was appointed expert compiler in the Statistical Division of the Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C. He died on January 4, 1920, in Newport, Rhode Island.
1783, Oct. 16 Born, Taunton, Mass.
1810 Admitted to the bar and commenced law practice
1812-1820 Served as register of probate, Bristol County, Mass.
1821 Elected as Federalist, Seventeenth Congress
1822 Married Elizabeth Moulton Deming (died 1868)
1823 Elected as Jackson Federalist, Eighteenth Congress
1825 Elected as a Jacksonian, Nineteenth Congress
1827-1832 Served as member of the Massachusetts house of representatives
1830 Published An Historical Memoir of the Colony of New Plymouth. . . Boston: Hilliard, Gray, Little, and Wilkins
1832 Served as U.S. Chargé d'Affaires to Argentina
1835 Elected to Massachusetts house of representatives
1852, Oct. 28 Died, Taunton, Mass.
1878, Nov. 20 Born, Fort Pendleton, Garrett County, Md.
1898 Volunteer hospital worker, Fort Meade, Md., during the Spanish-American War
1902 Married George F. Becker (died 1919)
1903-1917 Member, Board of Managers, Emergency Hospital, Washington, D.C.
1914 Established with nine other women the Grey Ladies, a volunteer organization of the Red Cross
1920-circa 1923 Joined the Rockefeller Anti-Tuberculosis Organization and served as a volunteer in Lille, France
1921 Married John Campbell Forrester (divorced 1930)
1923 Founded the Incorporated Tuberculosis Association and a training school for tuberculosis workers in Bengal, India
1930-circa 1934 Administrator, Joseph Colt Bloodgood's cancer clinic, Baltimore, Md.
1969, Mar. 22 Died, Cambridge, Md.
1869, Apr. 2 Born, Woodford County, Kentucky
1886-1891 Draftsman, United States Patent Office, Washington, D.C.
1891-1907 Cartoonist, Washington Post
1893 Married Kate G. Durfee
1902 Originated the Teddy Bear in a cartoon of an incident involving Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919) and a small bear
1907-1949 Cartoonist, Washington Star
1944 Awarded Pulitzer Prize for editorial cartooning
1949, Dec. 11 Died, Washington, D.C.
1799, Aug. 25 Born, near Nashville, Tenn.
1805, circa Became ward of Andrew Jackson
1817 Appointed cadet, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1820 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1820-1821 Aide-de-camp to General Andrew Jackson at Nashville, Tenn., and in Florida
1822 Resigned from the army
1822-1823 Studied law, Transylvania University, Lexington, Ky.
1823 Admitted to bar, Nashville, Tenn., and commenced practice there
1824 Married Emily Tennessee Donelson, a cousin
Assisted Andrew Jackson in unsuccessful presidential campaign of 1824
1825-1828 Engaged in legal practice in Nashville, Tenn., and farming near Nashville
1828 Assisted Andrew Jackson in successful campaign for presidency
1829-1837 private secretary and confidential advisor to President Andrew Jackson, residing at White House
1836 Death of Emily Tennessee Donelson
1837 Returned to Tennessee
1841 Married Elizabeth Martin Randolph, widow of Lewis Randolph
1844-1845 Chargé d'affaires to Republic of Texas
1846-1848 Minister to Prussia
1848-1849 Minister to Federal Government of Germany
1851-1852 Edited Washington Union
1856 Vice-presidential candidate on the Millard Fillmore ticket, American Party
1871, June 26 Died, Memphis, Tenn.
1916, Aug. 31 Born, New York, N.Y.
1930-1933 Attended DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N. Y.
1934-1941 Reporter, Jewish Daily Bulletin and Jewish Telegraphic Agency, New York, N.Y.
1939 Bachelor's degree, City College of New York, New York, N.Y.
1943-1945 Sergeant, United States Army
1946-1947 News editor, Aneta (Netherlands news agency), New York, N.Y., then Amsterdam, Netherlands
1948-1953 Stringer reporter, Christian Science Monitor, New York Times, American Broadcasting Co., Columbia Broadcasting System, and other media, Amsterdam, Netherlands
1950 Awarded first William the Silent Award, Hague, Netherlands
1953-1955 Diplomatic correspondent, Columbia Broadcasting System
1955-1957 Correspondent, Moscow Bureau, Columbia Broadcasting System, Moscow, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
1958-1960 Diplomatic correspondent, Columbia Broadcasting System
1960-1966 Chief, Germany and Eastern Europe Bureau, Columbia Broadcasting System, Bonn, Germany
1966 Married Lisbeth Bamberger
1966-1976 Reporter-correspondent, Washington Bureau, Columbia Broadcasting System, Washington, D.C.
1970 Published Don't Get Sick in America. Nashville: Aurora Publishers
1972 Awarded Emmy Award (also in 1973 and 1974)
1976-1979 Regents Professor of Journalism, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1977 Published Clearing the Air. Boston: Houghton Mifflin
1979-1985 News analyst, Cable News Network, Washington, D.C.
1985-2010 Senior news analyst, National Public Radio, Washington, D.C.
1996 Awarded “Golden Baton,” Alfred I. Dupont-Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
2001 Published Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism. New York: Simon and Schuster Pocket Books
2002 Awarded Edward R. Murrow Award for Lifetime Achievement in Broadcasting
2010, July 23 Died, Washington, D.C.
1832 Born, Elkton, Ky.
1851 Graduated, Jefferson College, Washington, Pa.
1853 Admitted to Kentucky bar after studying law with his father, Francis Bristow, congressman from Kentucky.
1861-1865 Officer in Kentucky infantry and Kentucky calvary; wounded at the Battle of Shiloh (1863) and assisted in the capture of John Hunt Morgan during his raid through Indiana and Ohio (July 1863)
1863-1865 Kentucky state senator
1865-1866 Assistant United States attorney
1866-1870 United States district attorney for Louisville, Ky., district
1870-1872 First solicitor general of the United States
1874-1876 Secretary of the treasury
Reorganized Treasury Department and successfully prosecuted the ?Whiskey Ring? accused of defrauding the federal government of tax revenue
1876 Candidate for Republican Party nomination for president
1878 Began law practice in New York
1896, June 22 Died, New York, N.Y.
Katherine Garrison Chapin was born in Waterford, Connecticut, on September 4, 1890, and died in Pennsylvania on December 30, 1977. She was educated at Columbia University and beginning in the 1920s became published as a poet in such publications as Harper's, Scribner's, Saturday Review, North American Review, Poetry, and the Ladies' Home Journal. Other of her works were set to music and performed by leading orchestras. In 1918 she married Francis Biddle, later attorney general in the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II.
1837, Dec. 26 Born, Montpelier, Vt.
1854 M.M.S., Norwich University, Northfield, Vt.
1858 Graduated, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1858-1861 Attached to steam frigate Wabash
1861 Promoted to lieutenant, U.S. Navy
Assigned as executive officer on the steam sloop-of-war Mississippi
1861-1865 Took part in Civil War naval engagements at Fort St. Phillip and Fort Jackson, 1862; Port Hudson, 1862; New Orleans, 1862; Donaldsonville, 1863; and Fort Fisher, 1864-1865; also served with the North Atlantic Blockading Squadron and on the Mississippi, Monogahela, Brooklyn, Minnesota, Colorado, and Agawam
1865 Promoted to lieutenant commander
1865-1867 Served on the Kearsarge and the Canandaigua and commanded the steam frigate Colorado
1867 Married Susie Goodwin (died 1872)
1867-1869 Assigned to the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1870-1875 Commanded the sloop Narragansett
1872 Promoted to commander
1875-1882 Assigned to the Lighthouse Board
1882-1884 Commanded the steam sloop Juaniata of the Asiatic Squadron
1884 Promoted to captain
1885-1888 Commanded the screw steamer Pensacola, flagship of the European Squadron
1889-1896 Chief, Navy Department's Bureau of Equipment, and served on the Lighthouse Board
1895-1897 President, Board of Inspection and Survey, U.S. Navy
1896 Promoted to commodore
1898-1899 Commanded Asiatic Squadron from flagship Olympia
1898, May 1 Battle of Manila Bay
1898, May 7 Promoted to rear admiral
1898, Aug. 18 Assisted Major-General Wesley Merritt, U.S. Army, in the capture of Manila, Philippines
1899 Promoted to admiral
Married Mildred McLean Hazen
1900-1917 President, General Board of the Navy
1901 President, Schley Court of Inquiry
1902-1903 Commander-in-chief, combined U.S. naval force assembled at Culebra, Puerto Rico, for winter maneuvers
1917, Jan. 16 Died, Washington, D.C.
1869, Oct. 21 Born, Clayton, N.C.
1897 B.S. and M.S., Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Va.
1899 Ph.D., University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany
1901 Married Martha Johns
1900-1908 Professor of history, Randolph-Macon College, Ashland, Va.
1908-1933 Professor of history, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1933-1937 Ambassador to Germany
1934 President, American Historical Association
1938-1940 Returned and resided in the United States
1940, Feb. 9 Died, Round Hill, Va.
1941 Publication of Ambassador Dodd's Diary, 1933-1937 . New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co.
1908, Oct. 29 Born, Portland, Maine
1930 Married Smith Whittier Ames (divorced 1937)
B.A., University of Maine, Orono, Maine
1933 M.A., University of Maine, Orono, Maine
1933-1936 Research secretary and personal assistant to Arnold Gesell, Clinic of Child Development, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1936 Ph.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1938 Produced first film, "How Behavior Grows: The Sequential Patterning of Prone Progression"
1940-1944 Instructor, Clinic of Child Development, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1943 Published with Arnold Gesell, Frances Lillian Ilg, and Janet Learned Infant and Child in the Culture of Today: The Guidance of Development in Home and Nursery School (New York: Harper & Brothers. 405 pp.)
1944-1950 Assistant Professor and curator of the Yale Films of Child Development, Clinic of Child Development, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1946 Published with Arnold Gesell, Frances Lillian Ilg, and Glenna E. Bullis Child from Five to Ten (New York: Harper & Brothers. 458 pp.)
1950 Founded with Frances Lillian Ilg the Gesell Institute of Child Development, New Haven, Conn.
1950-1968 Director of research and secretary-treasurer, Gesell Institute of Child Development, New Haven, Conn.
1951-1973 Coauthor of syndicated newspaper column Child Behavior (after 1962 called Parents Ask)
1952-1955 Weekly television series, Child Behavior
1960-1961 Weekly television series, The Gesell Institute Reports: Your Child and You
1965 Published with Frances Lillian Ilg School Readiness: Behavior Tests Used at the Gesell Institute (New York: Harper & Row. 396 pp.)
1968 Associate director and chief psychologist, Gesell Institute of Child Development, New Haven, Conn.
1970 Published Child Care and Development (Philadelphia: Lippincott Co. 426 pp.)
1971-1977 Codirector, Gesell Institute of Child Development, New Haven, Conn.
1973 Published Rorschach Responses in Old Age (New York: Brunner/Mazel. 219 pp.)
1974 Published with Joan Ames Chase Don't Push Your Pre-schooler (New York: Harper & Row. 212 pp.)
1976 Published series on child development with Frances Lillian Ilg, beginning with Your Two-Year-Old: Terrible or Tender (New York: Delacorte Press. 149 pp.)
1978 Gesell Institute of Child Development, New Haven, Conn., renamed Gesell Institute of Human Development, New Haven, Conn.
1989 Published Arnold Gesell: Themes of His Work (New York: Human Sciences Press. 334 pp.)
1990 Reaffiliation of the Gesell Institute of Human Development with Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1991 Lecturer, Child Study Center, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1996, Oct. 31 Died, Cincinnati, Ohio
1942, Dec. 29 Born, Plymouth, Ind.
1964 Graduated Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kans.
1968 LL.B., Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
1968-1970 Served in military police corps, Fort Riley, Kans., and Vietnam; discharged with rank of captain.
1970-1973 Member of law firm Neal & Harwell, Nashville, Tenn.
1973-1974 Assistant minority counsel, United States Senate, Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities (commonly known as Watergate Committee)
1974-1975 Partner in law firm, Thompson, Liebengood & Crawford, Nashville, Tenn.
1975-1976 Consultant, United States Senate, Select Committee on Intelligence
1976-1977 Minority staff director, United States Senate, Select Committee on Intelligence
1977-1981 Legislative counsel to Senate minority leader, United States Senate
1981-1983 Sergeant at arms, United States Senate
1983 Accepted a position at the Tobacco Institute, Washington, D.C.
1984 Partner in lobbying firm, Gold & Liebengood, Washington, D.C.
1995 Became chief lobbyist for Philip Morris Cos. Inc.
2001-2003 Chief of staff, Senate office of Fred Thompson of Tennessee
2003 Became chief of staff of personal office of Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee
2005, Jan. 13 Died, Vienna, Va.
1885, Mar. 31 Born, Poltava, Russia
1908 B.L., University of Petrograd, Petrograd, Russia
1910-1916 Prosecuting attorney in the Russian Ministry of Justice
1912 Studied forensic science, Lausanne University, Lausanne, Switzerland
1914-1916 Served as second lieutenant, Imperial Russian Guard, on the Polish front
1916 Russian representative in the United States, Interallied Conference
1917 Stayed in the United States as an emigrant following the October Revolution in Russia
1918-1963 Practised law, New York, N.Y., specializing in Russian law, while pursuing a career as a literary critic and criminologist
1920 Published Socialism vs. Civilization. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons
1921 Published The World at the Cross Roads. Boston: Small, Maynard and Co.
1922 Published The Balance Sheet of Sovietism. New York: Duffield
1927 Published Elements of Crime. New York: Oxford University Press
1934 Published The Mighty Three: Poushkin, Gogol, Dostoievsky. New York: William Farquhar Payson
1938 Published Oscar Wilde: the Man, the Artist, the Martyr. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons
1949 Translated Fyodor Dostoyevsky's The Diary of a Writer. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons
1963, Mar. 19 Died, New York, N.Y.
1812, Mar. 19 Born, Monroe, N.Y.
1833 Moved to Chicago, Ill.
Established first law office in Chicago, Ill.
1834 Member and secretary of the first Illinois political convention held in Ottawa, Ill.
Elected justice of the peace, Ottawa, Ill.
1835 Married Laura Sherill
Admitted to the Illinois bar
1837 Elected as an alderman in Chicago, Ill.
1842-1864 Associate justice of the Illinois Supreme Court and served as chief justice in 1855 and again from 1857 to 1864
1849-1867 President of the Illinois and Mississippi Telegraphic Co.
1875 Published A Summer in Norway; with Notes on the Industries, Habits, Customs and Peculiarities of the People, the History and Institutions of the Country, Its Climate, Topography and Productions. Chicago: Jansen, McClurg and Co.
1877 Published The Antelope and Deer of America. New York: Hurd and Houghton
1895, July 30 Died, Chicago, Ill.
1883, Jan. 21 Born, Jalapa, Grant County, Ind.
1903 Assistant biological expert, Division of Biological Survey, Agriculture Department
1904 A.B., Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.
1904-1916 Assistant biologist, Bureau of Biological Survey, Agriculture Department
1906 A.M., biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.
Married Fannie Eldridge Lawson (divorced 1939)
1916-1921 Assistant biologist in charge of economic ornithology, Bureau of Biological Survey, Agriculture Department
1918 Published, A Sketch of the Natural History of the District of Columbia (Washington, D.C.: [Press of H. L. and J. B. McQueen]. 142 pp.)
1920-1947 Acting curator of Hemiptera, National Museum, Smithsonian Institution
1921-1934 Assistant biologist in charge of food habits research, Bureau of Biological Survey, Agriculture Department
1934-1940 Technical advisor, office of the chief, Bureau of Biological Survey, Agriculture Department
1937-1942 Editor, Journal of Wildlife Management
1939 Published Wildfowl Food Plants (Ames, Iowa: Collegiate Press, Inc. 141 pp.)
1940-1947 Technical advisor, Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior Department
1956 Published privately A Review of the Nearctic Viburnum (Chapel Hill, N.C. 125 pp.)
1962, Jan. 7 Died, Chapel Hill, N.C.
1903, Feb. 5 Born, Indianapolis, Ind.
1921-1922 Student, University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.
1927 B.S., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1931 Married Emily Otis (divorced 1953)
1936-1984 Founding partner, Skidmore, Owings, & Merrill
1948-1951 Chairman, Chicago Planning Commission, Chicago, Ill.
1954 Married Margaret Wentworth
1962-1964 Chairman, President's Advisory Council on Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C.
1964-1973 Chairman, President's Temporary Commission on Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C.
1967-1970 Chairman, Control Urban Design Concept Team for Interstate Highway System, Baltimore, Md.
1969 Published The American Aesthetic (New York: Harper & Row. 198 pp.)
1970-1972 Chairman, Advisory Board on National Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings, and Monuments
1973 Published The Spaces in Between: An Architect's Journey (Boston: Houghton Mifflin. 303 pp.)
1983 Awarded the American Institute of Architects' Gold Medal
1984, June 13 Died, Santa Fe, N.Mex.
1901, Oct. 10 Born, Washington, D.C.
1923 Doctor of veterinary medicine, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa
1923-1927 Instructor, veterinary science, Virginia State College, Petersburg, Va.
1927 Master of science, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa
1927-1928 Director of agriculture, Virginia State College, Petersburg, Va.
1928-1933 Head, Veterinary Division, Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.
1932 Doctor of philosophy, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1933-1935 Director, School of Agriculture, Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.
1935 Married Catherine E. Moton, daughter of Robert Russa Moton, second president of Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.
1935-1953 President, Tuskegee Institute, Tuskegee, Ala.
1943-1944 Established United Negro College Fund
1944 Published essay in What the Negro Wants, edited by Rayford W. Logan (Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North Carolina Press. 352 pp.)
1953-1954 Inspected and evaluated educational resources in Nigeria on behalf of the World Bank/International Bank Commission
1953-1958 Director of Education, Phelps-Stokes Fund, New York, N.Y.
1956 Co-editor with William Hardin Hughes of Robert Russa Moton of Hampton and Tuskegee (Chapel Hill, N.C.: University of North Carolina Press. 238 pp.)
1958-1970 President, Phelps-Stokes Fund
1964-1966 President, United Negro College Fund, New York, N.Y.
1969-1973 President, Robert Russa Moton Memorial Institute, New York, N.Y.
1973-1984 Director, College Endowment Funding Plan, New York, N.Y.
1976 Published College Endowment Funding Plan (Washington, D.C.: American Council on Education. 120 pp.)
1985 Received White House Private Sector Initiative Commendation
1987 Awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
1988, Apr. 26 Died, New Rochelle, N.Y.
1991 Posthumous publication of Patterson's autobiography, Chronicles of Faith, edited by Martia Graham Goodson (Tuscaloosa, Ala.: University of Alabama Press. 220 pp.)
1945, Sept. 13 Born, Washington, D.C.
1966 Graduated, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1968-1970 Federal Trade Commission Investigation Project
1969 Graduated, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1969-1970 Attorney-advisor to chairman, Federal Trade Commission
1970 Principal assistant to deputy director, Office of Management and Budget
1970-1972 Executive assistant to director, Office of Management and Budget
1973-1976 Executive assistant to secretary, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
1974 Married Julia Vadala
1976-1977 General counsel, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
1977-1981 Partner at Leva, Hawes, Symington, Martin & Oppenheimer, Washington, D.C.
1981-1984 General counsel, Defense Department
1984-1989 Deputy secretary, Defense Department
1989-1992 Permanent representative, North Atlantic Treaty Organization
1992 Partner, Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver and Jacobson, Washington, D.C.
1959 Like-minded Democrats in the House of Representative establish the Democratic Study Group (DSG) to mobilize and coordinate efforts to enact progressive programs William G. Phillips appointed staff director
1960-1968 DSG plays leadership role in passing Kennedy-Johnson legislative agenda
1968 Richard Conlon appointed executive director, serving twenty years until his death in a boating accident
1970-1990 DSG active in reforming parliamentary rules of the United States House of Representatives
1988 Scott Lilly appointed executive director
1995 DSG dissolved under Republican majority reform rules abolishing the organization as a congressionally funded entity
1939, May 29 Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1962 B.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1962-1964 Editorial assistant, New Yorker magazine, New York, N.Y.
1964-1965 Institut des Professeurs de Français a l'Etranger, Sorbonne, Paris, France
1965-1967 Freelance writer and editor, Paris, France
1968-1970 Copy editor, Congressional Quarterly, Washington, D.C.
1969 Certificate, French-to-English translation, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
1970 M.A., comparative literature, Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.
1972-1975 Associate editor, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
1973 Published and edited Good Morning Revolution: Uncollected Social Protest Writings by Langston Hughes. Westport, Conn.: L. Hill.
1975-1977 Staff writer and associate editor, WETA/TV-FM, Washington, D.C.
1976-1977 Member, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Task Force on Africa
1979-1980 Media coordinator, President's Advisory Committee for Women, Washington, D.C.
1980 Speechwriter, Department of Labor Women's Bureau, Washington, D.C.
1980-1982 Partner, Faith Berry and Associates
1983 Published Langston Hughes: Before and Beyond Harlem. Westport, Conn.: L. Hill
1987 Guest editor, Langston Hughes Review commemorative issue on Langston Hughes
1988-1992 Associate professor, American and comparative literature, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Fla.
1991 Published A Scholars Conscience: Selected Writings of J. Saunders Redding, 1942-1977 . Lexington, Kentucky: The University of Kentucky Press
1992 Published second edition of Good Morning Revolution: Uncollected Writings of Social Protest by Langston Hughes . New York: Citadel Press
1992 Guest editor, Langston Hughes Review commemorative issue on Darwin T. Turner
1992 Compiled and edited A Scholar's Conscience: selected writings of J. Saunders Redding, 1942-1977. Lexington, Ky: University Press of Kentucky
1992-1993 Professor, American and comparative literature, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Fla.
1993-2017 Professor, African American literature and gender studies, University of California, Santa Barbara
2001 Compiled, edited, and published From Bondage to Liberation: Writings by and about Afro-Americans from 1700-1918. New York: Continuum
2017, April 4 Died, Cincinnati, Ohio
1865, June 29 Born, Jasper Township, near Fairfield, Ill.
1885-1887 Attended University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.
1887 Admitted to the Kansas bar
1890 Settled in Boise, Idaho; practiced law
1895 Married Mary McConnell
1896 Ran for the House of Representatives on the Silver-Republican ticket
1903 Ran for the United States Senate
1907 Elected to the United States Senate from Idaho
Prosecutor in the trial of William Dudley (“Big Bill”) Haywood, socialist labor leader charged with murder
1919-1920 Opposed entry of the United States into the League of Nations
1923 Introduced first of several Senate resolutions to outlaw war
1924 Succeeded Henry Cabot Lodge as chairman, Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
1928-1929 Led fight in Senate for Kellogg-Briand peace pact
1936 Candidate, Republican Party nomination for president
1940 Died, Washington, D.C.
1910, June 24 Born, New York, N.Y.
1931 LL.B., Fordham University, New York, N.Y.
1932 Admitted to New York Bar
1932-1935 Private practice, New York, N.Y.
1935-1939 Special assistant to United States attorney, Southern District of New York
1936 Married Helen Ruth Rosenberg
1939-1940 Assistant United States attorney, Southern District of New York
1940-1949 Partner, Noonan, Kaufman & Eagan, New York, N.Y.
1947-1948 Special assistant to United States attorney general in charge of lobbying investigation
1949-1961 Judge, United States District Court, Southern District of New York
1961-1987 Judge, United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit
1973-1980 Chief judge, United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit
1987-1992 Senior judge, United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit
1987 Awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
1992, Feb. 1 Died, New York, N.Y.
1889, Sept. 8 Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1910 B.A. summa cum laude, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1913 LL.B. summa cum laude, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Admitted to Ohio bar
1913-1917 Practiced law, Cincinnati, Ohio
1914 Married Martha Wheaton Bowers
1917-1919 Assistant counsel, United States Food Administration, Washington, D.C.
1919 Counsel, American Relief Administration, Paris, France
1920 Return to law practice
1921-1926 Republican member of Ohio House of Representatives; elected speaker in 1926
1931-1932 Republican member, Ohio Senate
1936 Ohio's "favorite son" for Republican presidential nomination
1939-1953 Republican member, United States Senate
1940-1952 Candidate for Republican presidential nomination (1940, 1944, 1948, and 1952)
1944-1953 Chairman, Republican Senate Policy Committee
1947 Chairman, Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, Eightieth Congress
1951 Published A Foreign Policy for Americans. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday
1953 Senate Majority Leader, Eighty-third Congress
1953, July 31 Died, New York, N.Y.
Joseph Brodsky was born in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg), Soviet Union, on May 24, 1940. He left school in 1955, held a variety of jobs, and began a program of self-education during which he taught himself Polish and English. By the late 1950s, Brodsky had started writing poetry and producing literary translations that were published in samizdat editions and in 1960 met the Russian poet Anna Akhmatova, who became Brodsky's mentor and advocate. In 1964, Brodsky was charged and convicted as a "social parasite" in a Soviet court and sentenced to five years in a labor camp in Siberia. Following protests by Akhmatova, Jean Paul-Sartre, and others, Brodsky's sentence was reduced, and in 1972, he was forced into exile from the USSR.
After his exile, Brodsky emigrated to the United States and in 1977 became an American citizen. In addition to teaching positions at Columbia University, New York, N.Y., and Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass., where he taught for fifteen years, Brodsky also served as a visiting professor at several other colleges and universities. In 1986 his collection of essays Less Than One was awarded the National Book Critics Award for Criticism, and in 1987, he received the Nobel Prize for Literature. In 1990, Brodsky married Maria Sozzani and was appointed Poet Laureate of the United States, 1991-1992. Brodsky died on January 28, 1996, New York, N.Y.
Celebrated as one of the great Russian poets of his generation, Brodsky authored nine volumes of poetry, and several collections of essays, including Elegy for John Donne and Other Poems (1967), Selected Poems (1973), A Part of Speech (1980), To Urania (1988), Watermark (1992), and On Grief and Reason (1995), as well as the play Marbles (1989).
1887, Nov. 23 Born, Lorain, Ohio
1901 Graduated, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1901-1903 Duty in USS Eagle and USS Illinois, European Station
1903-1905 Duty in USS Cincinnati
1905 Married Martha Rankin Egerton
1914 Commanded USS Terry
1916-1919 Assistant to commander in chief, Atlantic Fleet
1923-1926 Commander, Submarine Base, New London, Conn.
1926 Commanded USS Wright
1927 Duty, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla.
1928-1929 Assistant chief, Bureau of Aeronautics
1929 Commanding officer, Naval Air Station, Hampton Roads, Va.
1930 Commanded USS Lexington
1932-1933 Student, United States Naval War College, Newport, R.I.
1933 Promoted to rear admiral
1933-1936 Chief, Bureau of Aeronautics
1936-1937 Commander, Aircraft, Base Force (Scouting Force), San Diego, Calif.
1938 Promoted to vice admiral
Commander, Aircraft, Battle Force
1941 Promoted to admiral
Appointed commander in chief, United States Fleet
1942-1945 Chief, naval operations
1944 Appointed fleet admiral, United States Navy
1948 Retired, United States Navy
1952 Published with Walter Muir Whitehall Fleet Admiral King: A Naval Record. New York: W. W. Norton
1956, June 25 Died, Portsmouth, N.H.
1916, June 9 Born, San Francisco, Calif.
1937 A.B. in economics and philosophy, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1939 M.B.A., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1940 Married Margaret Craig (died 1981)
1940-1943 Assistant professor of business administration, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1943-1946 Served in the U.S. Army Air Force; awarded the Legion of Merit and promoted to lieutenant colonel before being released from active duty
1946-1960 Executive, Ford Motor Co., rapidly promoted through a series of top-level management positions
1960-1961 President, Ford Motor Co.
1961-1968 Secretary of defense
1968 Awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
Published The Essence of Security. New York: Harper & Row
1968-1981 President, World Bank
1981-2006 Member on the board of directors and advisory councils of various corporations, foundations, and nonprofit organizations focusing on issues of East-West relations, the environment, nuclear arms, population and development in the Third World, and world hunger
1983 Awarded Albert Einstein Peace Prize
Awarded Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom from Want Medal
1986 Published Blundering into Disaster. New York: Pantheon Books
1989 Published Out of the Cold. New York: Simon and Schuster
1995 Published with Brian VanDeMark In Retrospect. New York: Times Books
1999 Published with James G. Blight and Robert K. Brigham Argument without End. New York: Public Affairs
2001 Published with James G. Blight Wilson's Ghost. New York: Public Affairs
2003 Interviewed for the documentary film The Fog of War, produced and directed by Errol Morris
2004 Married Diana Masieri
2009, July 6 Died, Washington, D.C.
1868, June 12 Born, Portageville, N.Y.
1890 Litt. B., University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
1892-1893 Honorary fellow, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill., studying at Göttingen University, Göttingen, Germany, and Bern University, Bern, Switzerland
1893-1897 High school principal and superintendent, Minnesota
1897-1898 Fellow, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1899-1900 President, Insular Board of Education, Puerto Rico
1900 Director of public instruction, Puerto Rico
Ph.D., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1902-1906 Investigated tropical labor conditions, U. S. Bureau of Labor
1906 Published The Labour Movement in Australasia: A Study in Social Democracy. New York: H. Holt & Co.
1906-circa 1915 Head, Division of Manufactures and Economic History, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Washington, D.C.
1910 In charge of census, Hawaii (Ter.)
1910-1913 Commissioner, Board of Immigration, Labor and Statistics, Hawaii (Ter.)
1916 Published History of Manufactures in the United States. Washington, D.C.: Carnegie Institution of Washington
1917-1919 Director, Enemy Press Bureau, National Board for Historical Service
1917-1929 Member, Board of Research Associates in American Economic History, Carnegie Institution of Washington
1918-1929 Director, Brookings Institution Survey of Puerto Rico
1920-1928 Editor, The Living Age
1926-1944 Trustee, Institute of Current World Affairs, Washington, D.C.
1927-1932 Arbitrator, U. S. Board of Mediation
1930 Published with others, Porto Rico and Its Problems. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institute
1929-1940 Consultant in economics, Library of Congress
1941-1946 Honorary consultant in economics, Library of Congress
1946, Mar. 30 Died, Washington, D.C.
Jeannette Thurber Connor, born 1872, became interested in researching the early history of Florida after her marriage to Washington Everett Connor in 1913. Following her investigation into the background of a Spanish mission on her husband's Florida estate, Connor began her research into the early Spanish settlements and missions of Florida. She accumulated transcripts and photocopies of original letters, reports, and other documents of Spanish officials of Florida from 1570 to the beginning of the eigthteenth century that had been preserved in Spanish repositories, especially the Archivo General de Indias, Seville, Spain. Together with John B. Stetson (1884-1952), Connor founded the Florida State Historical Society in 1921 and began a publication project of Florida historical studies supported by the society. Among the volumes Connor translated and edited for the series were Pedro Menéndez de Avilés: Memorial by Gonzalo Solis de Merás (De Land, Fla.: Florida State Historial Society, 1923); Colonial Records of Spanish Florida, 2 vols. (De Land, Fla.: Florida State Historial Society, 1925 and 1930); and The Whole and True Discouerye of Terra Florida (De Land, Fla.: Florida State Historial Society, 1927). Connor died on June 9, 1927 in New York, N.Y. Upon Connor's death and following financial losses suffered by Stetson in 1929, the Florida State Historical Society was discontinued and its publishing program terminated.
Rebekah Crawford
1846 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1869-1910 Music teacher, Crawford Private School, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1890-1924 Wrote four books on music appreciation for children
1910 Head of Music Department, Crawford Private School, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1913-1920 Relief worker, including during World War I
1916-1918 Raised funds for artificial limbs for 150 indigent Italian soldiers
1920 Received Gold Medal from Italian Red Cross for Italian relief efforts
1921 Received Distinguished Service Medal of the Order of the Crown of Italy for Italian and Duryea relief work
1934, Jan. 25 Died, New York, N.Y.
1835 Born, Redding, Conn.
circa 1854 Reporter, New Haven Palladium
circa 1861-1865 Private, First Minnesota Regiment, during the Civil War, and field reporter for the New York Times
circa 1885-1889 Editor, Washington Post
1888-1894 Executive officer, United States Geological Survey
1899 Organizer and secretary, Anti-Imperialist League
President, Liberty League
1893 Wrote opening ode for World's Columbian Exposition, Chicago, Ill.
1900 Campaigned in behalf of William Jennings Bryan for president
1915, Aug. 31 Died, Washington, D.C.
1873 Born, Paris, France
1897 B.A., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
circa 1898 Studied law, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1898 Served in First New York Volunteer Cavalry in Puerto Rico during the Spanish-American War
circa 1899 Studied law, New York Law School, New York, N.Y.
1900-1901 Deputy assistant district attorney, New York County, N.Y.
1912 Supported Theodore Roosevelt and the Progressive Party
1914-1916 Active in movement to keep United States out World War I
1919-1920 Organizer, Committee of 48
Trustee, New York Philharmonic Society, New York, N.Y.
Founder and member, executive committee, Civil Liberties Union
1932 Supported Franklin D. Roosevelt for president
1935 Broke with policies of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the New Deal
1939-1941 Opposed United States entry into World War II
Member, executive committee, New York chapter of America First Committee
1944 Died, New York, N.Y.
1905 Born, Fulton, Ill.
circa 1925 Attended Illinois Wesleyan University, Bloomington, Ill.
1929 Moved to Chicago, Ill., and began work in continuity department at the National Broadcasting Co.
1931-1945 Writer of Vic and Sade daytime radio series on the National Broadcasting Co.
1933 Married Mary Frances Murray
1936 Vic and Sade voted the best-written program on radio
1938 Voted best scriptwriter by radio artists
1952 Scripted The Public Life of Cliff Norton series, a comedy show for NBC-TV
1964, Oct. 26 Died, Chicago, Ill.
P. Phillips
1807, Dec. 13 Born, Charleston, S.C.
1828 Admitted to bar
1832 Delegate to South Carolina State Constitutional Convention (nullification)
1833-1835 Member, South Carolina house of representatives
1836 Married Eugenia Yates Levy (died 1913)
1836-1853 Practiced law in Mobile, Ala.
1837 President, Alabama Democratic state convention
1844 Member, Alabama house of representatives
1850 Admitted to United States Supreme Court
1851 Member, Alabama house of representatives
1853-1855 Member, United States House of Representatives, 33rd Congress
1856 Began law practice in Washington, D. C.
1861 Wife, Eugenia Levy Phillips, interned for Confederate sympathies
Family sent south to Crany Island via Fort Monroe as suspected spies for Confederate States of America.
Began New Orleans, La., bar practice
1862 Wife, Eugenia Levy Phillips, confined to Ship Island as rebel spy and finally released by Benjamin Butler as prisoner of war after three months
1862-1866 Began law practice in La Grange, Ga., and New Orleans, La.
1867 Removed to Washington, D. C., and resumed United States Supreme Court practice
1884, Jan. 14 Died, Washington, D. C.
W. Hallett Phillips
1853 Born, Washington, D. C.
1871 Graduated, Columbia College, Washington, D. C.
1885-1897 Special agent to investigate conditions in Yellowstone National Park
1887 Admitted to Supreme Court
1897 Drowned in Washington, D. C.
P. Phillips
1807, Dec. 13 Born, Charleston, S.C.
1828 Admitted to bar
1832 Delegate to South Carolina State Constitutional Convention (nullification)
1833-1835 Member, South Carolina house of representatives
1836 Married Eugenia Yates Levy (died 1913)
1836-1853 Practiced law in Mobile, Ala.
1837 President, Alabama Democratic state convention
1844 Member, Alabama house of representatives
1850 Admitted to United States Supreme Court
1851 Member, Alabama house of representatives
1853-1855 Member, United States House of Representatives, 33rd Congress
1856 Began law practice in Washington, D. C.
1861 Wife, Eugenia Levy Phillips, interned for Confederate sympathies
Family sent south to Crany Island via Fort Monroe as suspected spies for Confederate States of America.
Began New Orleans, La., bar practice
1862 Wife, Eugenia Levy Phillips, confined to Ship Island as rebel spy and finally released by Benjamin Butler as prisoner of war after three months
1862-1866 Began law practice in La Grange, Ga., and New Orleans, La.
1867 Removed to Washington, D. C., and resumed United States Supreme Court practice
1884, Jan. 14 Died, Washington, D. C.
W. Hallett Phillips
1853 Born, Washington, D. C.
1871 Graduated, Columbia College, Washington, D. C.
1885-1897 Special agent to investigate conditions in Yellowstone National Park
1887 Admitted to Supreme Court
1897 Drowned in Washington, D. C.
1903, June 9 Born, New York, N.Y.
1915-1923 Educated at Friends School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Shipley School, Bryn Mawr, Pa.; Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass.; and received B.A. from Grenoble University, Grenoble, France
1923 Married Frank D. Clarke (divorced 1924)
1924-1928 Advertising copy writer, New York, N.Y.
1928-1931 Editorial staff, The New Yorker
1929 Married Russell W. Davenport (divorced 1946)
1932 Published Mozart. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1934-1939 Music critic, Stage Magazine
1936 Published Of Lena Geyer. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1936-1937 Commentator, Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts
1940 Active in presidential campaign of Wendell L. Willkie
1941-1945 Active in relief work for Czechoslovakia
1942 Published Valley of Decision. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1945-1948 Lived in Prague, Czechoslovakia
1947 Published East Side, West Side. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1950 Lived alternately in Europe, chiefly Italy, and New York, N.Y.
1954 Published My Brother's Keeper. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1957 Published Garibaldi: Father of Modern Italy. New York, N.Y.: Random House
1960 Published The Constant Image. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1967 Published Too Strong for Fantasy. New York, N.Y.: Scribner
1991 Published Jan Masaryk: Last Portrait. Panorama
1996, Jan. 16 Died, Monterey, Calif.
1894, Mar. 20 Born, North Newburg, Maine
1913-1917 Student, United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1917 Commissioned ensign
1919 Married Helen Kamp
1920-1926 Duty in USS Arkansas and submarine service
1922 First command, submarine USS S-9
1928-1940 Served in submarines, on surface vessels, with Bureau of Engineers, and as District operations officer, Fourteenth Naval District
1941 Commander, USS Heywood
1942 Promoted to captain
1943-1945 Commanded Transport Division 18, Transport Squadron 12, and Transport Division 34
1945-1946 Assistant chief of staff for operations, First Naval District, Boston, Mass.
1947 Promoted to rear admiral
Retired
1976, Mar. 3 Died, Portland, Maine
1836, Sept. 30 Born, New York, N.Y.
1855 Graduated, U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
Duty in USS Potomac, Home Squadron
1856 Duty in USS Wabash, Home Squadron
1860 Duty in USS Dacotah, East India Squadron
1862-1863 Duty in USS Oneida, West Gulf Blockading Squadron
1863 Married Elizabeth Floyd
1864 Duty in USS Ticonderoga, South Atlantic Blockading Squadron
1865 Commanded USS Seneca; in charge of the left wing of the 2nd Naval Division
1869 Commanded USS Saginaw, Pacific Fleet
1871 Ordnance duty, U.S. Navy Yard, New York, N.Y
1872 Ordnance duty, U.S. Navy Yard, Washington, D.C.
1877 Duty in designing and constructing the first steel breech-loading guns for the U.S. Navy
1881 Promoted to captain
1881-1897 Chief, Bureau of Ordnance
1891-1893 Commanded USS Miantonomoh
1897 Promoted to rear admiral
Commander in chief, Naval Forces, North Atlantic Station
1898 President, Strategy Board, during the Spanish-American War
Retired from the U.S. Navy
1900, Sept. 14 Died, Westernville, N.Y.
1822, Feb. 21 Born, Red Hook, N.Y.
1839 Appointed midshipman in the U.S. Navy
1839-1840 Duty in USS United States, Home Squadron
1840-1841 Duty in USS Potomac, Brazil Squadron
1841-1842 Duty in USS Marion, Brazil Squadron
1842-1843 Duty in USS Bainbridge, Home Squadron
1843-1844 Duty in USS Potomac, Home Squadron
1844-1845 Duty at the Naval School, Philadelphia, Pa.
1845 Promoted to passed midshipman
1845-1846 Coast survey duty
1846 Duty in USS United States, Africa Squadron
1846-1848 Duty in USS Marion, Africa and Mediterranean Squadrons
1847 Married Sarah Hutchins Abercrombie (died 1871)
1849 Duty in USS Morris
1850-1851 Duty in USS Atlantic
1851 Duty in USS Georgia
1851-1854 On leave from the navy
1854 Commissioned lieutenant
Resigned from the navy
1854-1856 Chief officer, Collins Steamship Line
1856-1861 Commanded commercial ships and helped survey the Isthmus of Tehuantepec (Mexico)
1861-1863 Consul general, Havana, Cuba 1862 Served on a mission to Mexico
1863 Commissioned commander
Commanded USS Conemaugh, South Atlantic Blockade Squadron
1863-1865 Commanded USS Proteus, East Gulf Squadron
1865-1866 Commanded USS Hartford, East India Squadron
1866-1868 Commanded USS Wachusett, East India-Asiatic Squadron
1868 Ordnance duty, New York Navy Yard
1868-1869 Commanded New York Naval Rendezvous
1869-1870 Commanded USS Minantonomoh
1870 Promoted to captain
Ordnance duty, Portsmouth Navy Yard
1870-1871 Commanded Tehuantepec (Mexico) Survey Expedition
1871-1872 Commanded USS Wabash, European Squadron
1872-1873 Commanded USS Plymouth, European Squadron
1873-1875 Executive officer, New York Navy Yard
1875-1878 Chief of the Bureau of Equipment and Recruiting
1878-1880 Commanded USS Ticonderoga on a world cruise sponsored by the Department of the Navy and Department of State
1881 Naval attaché, Peking, China
1882-1884 President, Naval Advisory Board
1883-1884 Superintendent, Naval Observatory, Washington, D.C
1884 Promoted to rear admiral
Retired from the navy
1889 Declined post of U.S. minister to China
1895, Nov. 6 Died, Washington, D.C.
1903, Mar. 14 Born, Les Cayes, Haiti
1926-1931 Various positions within the Technical Service of Agriculture and Vocational Education in Haiti during U.S. occupation
1931 Earned M.A. in rural education, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Married Esther Reithoffer (died 2003)
1931-1941 Director of Rural Education, Haiti
1941-1946 Minister of Education, Agriculture and Labor in Haiti during administration of President Elie Lescot
1941 With Haitian President Elie Lescot and Minister of Finance M. Abel Lacroix established Société haitiano-américaine de développement agricole; appointed vice president of the corporation
1946 Went into exile to New York after overthrow of President Elie Lescot of Haiti
1956 Joined Unesco
1962-1963 Chief of African Division, Unesco, Paris
1983, July 9 Died, Paris, France
1890, Jan. 13 Born, Aurora, Ind.
1910-1911 A.B. and A.M., Franklin College, Franklin, Ind.
1912-1914 Rhodes Scholar, Queen's College, Oxford University, Oxford, England
1914-1924 Worked on staff of New York Times
1917 Married Florence MacMillan
1920-1935 Created and wrote for the character Godfrey G. Gloom, who was a columnist and political commentator
1939-1942 News analyst, Columbia Broadcasting Co.
1942-1945 Director, Office of War Information
1945-1954 Free-lance writer, radio commentator, and lecturer
1954 Published But We Were Born Free. Garden City, New York: Garden City Books
1955 Published Two Minutes Till Midnight, a sequel to But We Were Born Free. Indianapolis, Indiana: Bobbs-Merrill
1958, May 18 Died, Washington, D. C.
1873, Oct. 27 Born James J. Davies, Tredagar, Wales
1881 Immigrated to the United States with his parents
1884 Apprenticed as a puddler's assistant in iron works, Sharon, Pa.
1893-1902 Moved to Elwood, Ind., and worked as city clerk
1903-1907 Recorder, Madison County, Ind.
1907-1947 Active with the Loyal Order of Moose, serving as supreme organizer and director general
1914 Married Jean Rodenbaugh
1921-1930 Secretary of labor in the Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge, and Herbert Hoover administrations
1931-1945 Senator from Pennsylvania
1942 Ran unsuccessfully for govenor of Pennsylvania
1947 Administrative assistant to Senator William Langer of North Dakota
1947, Nov. 22 Died, Takoma Park, Md.
1888, Oct. 20 Born, Rush Center, Kans.
1905-1907 Attended University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1910 A.B., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1910-1911 Attended law school, University of Paris, Paris, France
1913 Married Alice Durand
1914 LL.B, Harvard Law School, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Attorney, Davis, Kellogg & Severance, St. Paul, Minn.
1915-1916 Attorney, Warner, Warner & Stackpole, Boston, Mass.
1916-1918 Acting assistant professor of law, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1918-1921 Attorney, Ropes, Gray, Boyden & Perkins, Boston, Mass
1921-1928 Professor of law, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1928-1929 Visiting professor of law, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1929-1937 Professor of law, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1934-1935 Special assistant to the attorney general, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.
1937-1970 Judge, United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, Washington, D.C.; chief judge, 1955-1968; senior status, 1963-1970
1970, Feb. 23 Died, Washington, D.C.
Thomas Ewing (1789-1871)
1789, Dec. 28 Born near West Liberty, Ohio County, Va.
1792 Moved with family to Marietta, Ohio
1798 Moved with family to Ames Township, Athens County, Ohio
1809-1812 Worked intermittently at the Kanawha, Va., saltworks
1812-1815 Attended Ohio University, Athens, Ohio
1815-1816 Studied law in the office of Philemon Beecher, Lancaster, Ohio; admitted to the bar in 1816
circa 1817-1822 Prosecuting attorney, Fairfield County, Ohio
1820 Married Maria Wills Boyle (died 1864)
1829 Adopted William T. Sherman
1830 Elected from Ohio, United States Senate
1841 Appointed secretary of the treasury; resigned Sept. 11
1849-1850 Appointed to organize the Home Department (later Department of the Interior) and served as the first secretary of the interior
1850 Appointed to the United States Senate to complete unexpired term of Thomas Corwin who became secretary of the treasury
1851 Retired from public service, resuming his law practice
1851-1869 Practiced law, largely before the United States Supreme Court
1861 Appointed delegate to the Peace Convention, Washington, D.C.
1868 Appointed secretary of war; United States Senate did not act on nomination
1871, Oct. 26 Died, Lancaster, Ohio
Thomas Ewing (1829-1896)
1829, Aug. 7 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
1852-1854 Attended Brown University, Providence, R.I.
1854-1857 Lived in Cincinnati, Ohio; attended Cincinnati Law School; admitted to bar in 1855
1856 Married Ellen Ewing Cox
1857-circa 1862 Moved to Leavenworth, Kans., where he practiced law in the firm Ewing, Denman & Company with his brother, Hugh, and brothers-in-law, Hampton B. Denman and William T. Sherman; firm became Sherman, Ewing & McCook in 1859
1858 Member, Kansas Constitutional Convention
1861 Appointed delegate to Peace Convention, Washington, D.C.
Served as first chief justice, Kansas Supreme Court; resigned 1862
1862 Brevetted major-general, United States Army; resigned 1865
1865 Defended Samuel Arnold, Edward Spangler, and Samuel Mudd on charges of conspiracy to assassinate Abraham Lincoln
1865-1870 Practiced law with Ewing & Browning, Washington, D.C.
1870 Moved to Lancaster, Ohio
1877-1881 Elected from Ohio, United States House of Representatives
1882 Moved to Yonkers, New York
1882-1896 Practiced law, New York, N.Y.
1896, Jan. 21 Died New York, N.Y.
Charles Ewing (1835-1883)
1835, Mar. 6 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
circa 1850-circa 1854 Attended St. Joseph's College, Perry County, Ohio, and Gonzaga University, Washington, D.C.
1856-1858 Attended University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
1860 Bachelor of laws, Cincinnati College, Cincinnati, Ohio
Admitted to the bar, St. Louis, Mo.
1861 Entered United States Army with rank of captain
1863-1867 Served under his brother-in-law, William T. Sherman, and was part of the "March to the Sea"
1865 Brevetted colonel
Promoted to brigadier-general in charge of volunteers; resigned in 1867
1867-1883 Practiced law, Washington, D.C.
1869 Admitted to bar of the United States Supreme Court
1870 Married Virginia Larwill Miller (died 1937)
1874-1883 Served as Catholic commissioner of Indian missions; became Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions in 1874
1883, June 20 Died, Washington, D.C.
Hugh Ewing
1826, Oct. 31 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
1848 Entered United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.; resigned before graduation
1854-1856 Admitted to the bar and practiced law, St. Louis, Mo.
1857-1861 Moved to Leavenworth, Kans., where he practiced law in the firm Ewing, Denman & Company with his brother, Thomas, and brothers-in-law, Hampton B. Denman and William T. Sherman; firm became Sherman, Ewing & McCook in 1859; speculated in lands, roads, and government housing
1858 Married Henrietta Young (died 1927)
1861 Entered United States Army with rank of major
1862 Promoted to brigadier-general of volunteers
1865 Brevetted major-general of volunteers; resigned in 1866
1866-1870 Served as minister to Holland
1870-circa 1875 Practiced law, Washington, D.C.
circa 1875 Moved to Lancaster, Ohio
1905, June 30 Died near Lancaster, Ohio
Virginia Larwill Miller Ewing
1846 Born, Mt. Vernon, Ohio
1870 Married Charles Ewing (died 1883)
1937, Oct. 21 Died, Washington, D.C.
Thomas Ewing (1789-1871)
1789, Dec. 28 Born near West Liberty, Ohio County, Va.
1792 Moved with family to Marietta, Ohio
1798 Moved with family to Ames Township, Athens County, Ohio
1809-1812 Worked intermittently at the Kanawha, Va., saltworks
1812-1815 Attended Ohio University, Athens, Ohio
1815-1816 Studied law in the office of Philemon Beecher, Lancaster, Ohio; admitted to the bar in 1816
circa 1817-1822 Prosecuting attorney, Fairfield County, Ohio
1820 Married Maria Wills Boyle (died 1864)
1829 Adopted William T. Sherman
1830 Elected from Ohio, United States Senate
1841 Appointed secretary of the treasury; resigned Sept. 11
1849-1850 Appointed to organize the Home Department (later Department of the Interior) and served as the first secretary of the interior
1850 Appointed to the United States Senate to complete unexpired term of Thomas Corwin who became secretary of the treasury
1851 Retired from public service, resuming his law practice
1851-1869 Practiced law, largely before the United States Supreme Court
1861 Appointed delegate to the Peace Convention, Washington, D.C.
1868 Appointed secretary of war; United States Senate did not act on nomination
1871, Oct. 26 Died, Lancaster, Ohio
Thomas Ewing (1829-1896)
1829, Aug. 7 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
1852-1854 Attended Brown University, Providence, R.I.
1854-1857 Lived in Cincinnati, Ohio; attended Cincinnati Law School; admitted to bar in 1855
1856 Married Ellen Ewing Cox
1857-circa 1862 Moved to Leavenworth, Kans., where he practiced law in the firm Ewing, Denman & Company with his brother, Hugh, and brothers-in-law, Hampton B. Denman and William T. Sherman; firm became Sherman, Ewing & McCook in 1859
1858 Member, Kansas Constitutional Convention
1861 Appointed delegate to Peace Convention, Washington, D.C.
Served as first chief justice, Kansas Supreme Court; resigned 1862
1862 Brevetted major-general, United States Army; resigned 1865
1865 Defended Samuel Arnold, Edward Spangler, and Samuel Mudd on charges of conspiracy to assassinate Abraham Lincoln
1865-1870 Practiced law with Ewing & Browning, Washington, D.C.
1870 Moved to Lancaster, Ohio
1877-1881 Elected from Ohio, United States House of Representatives
1882 Moved to Yonkers, New York
1882-1896 Practiced law, New York, N.Y.
1896, Jan. 21 Died New York, N.Y.
Charles Ewing (1835-1883)
1835, Mar. 6 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
circa 1850-circa 1854 Attended St. Joseph's College, Perry County, Ohio, and Gonzaga University, Washington, D.C.
1856-1858 Attended University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
1860 Bachelor of laws, Cincinnati College, Cincinnati, Ohio
Admitted to the bar, St. Louis, Mo.
1861 Entered United States Army with rank of captain
1863-1867 Served under his brother-in-law, William T. Sherman, and was part of the "March to the Sea"
1865 Brevetted colonel
Promoted to brigadier-general in charge of volunteers; resigned in 1867
1867-1883 Practiced law, Washington, D.C.
1869 Admitted to bar of the United States Supreme Court
1870 Married Virginia Larwill Miller (died 1937)
1874-1883 Served as Catholic commissioner of Indian missions; became Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions in 1874
1883, June 20 Died, Washington, D.C.
Hugh Ewing
1826, Oct. 31 Born, Lancaster, Ohio
1848 Entered United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.; resigned before graduation
1854-1856 Admitted to the bar and practiced law, St. Louis, Mo.
1857-1861 Moved to Leavenworth, Kans., where he practiced law in the firm Ewing, Denman & Company with his brother, Thomas, and brothers-in-law, Hampton B. Denman and William T. Sherman; firm became Sherman, Ewing & McCook in 1859; speculated in lands, roads, and government housing
1858 Married Henrietta Young (died 1927)
1861 Entered United States Army with rank of major
1862 Promoted to brigadier-general of volunteers
1865 Brevetted major-general of volunteers; resigned in 1866
1866-1870 Served as minister to Holland
1870-circa 1875 Practiced law, Washington, D.C.
circa 1875 Moved to Lancaster, Ohio
1905, June 30 Died near Lancaster, Ohio
Virginia Larwill Miller Ewing
1846 Born, Mt. Vernon, Ohio
1870 Married Charles Ewing (died 1883)
1937, Oct. 21 Died, Washington, D.C.
Oliver Freud
1891, Feb. 19 Born, Vienna, Austria, son of Sigmund and Martha Bernays Freud
circa 1915 Graduated with degree in civil engineering from Vienna Technical Institute, Vienna, Austria
circa 1916-1918 Served in Austrian army, World War I
1920s Engineer, various firms, Berlin, Germany
1923 Married Henny Fuchs
circa 1933-1943 Worked as a commercial photographer in France
1943 Immigrated to United States
1943-1945 Taught mathematics, United States Army specialized training program
1945-1958 Engineer, Budd Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
1969, Jan. 24 Died, Williamstown, Mass.
Henny Fuchs Freud
1892, Nov. 2 Born, Berlin, Germany
1920s Graduated from Charlotten Lyceum, Berlin, Germany
Studied art under Lovis Corinth and graduated from State Academy of Fine Arts, Weimar, Germany
Studied at academies of fine arts in Berlin and Dusseldorf, Germany
Exhibited paintings at various shows in Germany and France
1923 Married Oliver Freud
1924 Birth of daughter, Eva Mathilde Freud (died in France, 1944)
circa 1933-1943 Lived in France
1943 Immigrated to the United States
1945-circa 1965 Exhibited artwork at various shows in the United States
1971, Apr. 30 Died, Williamstown, Mass.
Oliver Freud
1891, Feb. 19 Born, Vienna, Austria, son of Sigmund and Martha Bernays Freud
circa 1915 Graduated with degree in civil engineering from Vienna Technical Institute, Vienna, Austria
circa 1916-1918 Served in Austrian army, World War I
1920s Engineer, various firms, Berlin, Germany
1923 Married Henny Fuchs
circa 1933-1943 Worked as a commercial photographer in France
1943 Immigrated to United States
1943-1945 Taught mathematics, United States Army specialized training program
1945-1958 Engineer, Budd Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
1969, Jan. 24 Died, Williamstown, Mass.
Henny Fuchs Freud
1892, Nov. 2 Born, Berlin, Germany
1920s Graduated from Charlotten Lyceum, Berlin, Germany
Studied art under Lovis Corinth and graduated from State Academy of Fine Arts, Weimar, Germany
Studied at academies of fine arts in Berlin and Dusseldorf, Germany
Exhibited paintings at various shows in Germany and France
1923 Married Oliver Freud
1924 Birth of daughter, Eva Mathilde Freud (died in France, 1944)
circa 1933-1943 Lived in France
1943 Immigrated to the United States
1945-circa 1965 Exhibited artwork at various shows in the United States
1971, Apr. 30 Died, Williamstown, Mass.
John Charles Frémont (1813-1890) first gained public attention through his participation in and eventual leadership of scientific and mapping expeditions in the American West (1838, 1841, 1842, 1843, and 1845). In 1841 he married Jessie Ann Benton (1824-1902), the daughter of Senator Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri, who was an advocate of United States expansion into the West and a political supporter of his son-in-law's expeditions, which received Congressional backing. Jessie Benton Frémont assisted in the writing of her husband's 1844 expedition report, which enjoyed popularity with the general public, and with his subsequent writings. During his final expedition, Frémont became involved in California's uprising against Mexico. He was appointed military governor of California, but later was arrested and court-martialed in Washington, D.C., in 1847-1848 for disobedience. His penalty was set aside by President James K. Polk and he and Jessie moved to California in 1849. They became wealthy after the discovery of gold on their Las Mariposas land grant. In 1850, Frémont was elected senator from the new state of California and served briefly in that office. He ran as the first presidential candidate of the Republican party in 1856 on a free-soil anti-slavery platform. He served as a Union general in the Department of the West during the Civil War. Frémont was governor of the Arizona terrritory, 1878-1883. He died in New York City in 1890. The Frémonts suffered economic reversals and in later years were supported primarily through Jessie Benton Frémont's writings. During the 1870s through the 1890s she authored books, stories, and many articles that appeared in leading magazines. She died in Los Angeles, California, in 1902.
1933, April 26 Born, Munich, Germany
1939 Fled with family from Germany to England
1940 Immigrated to the United States with his family and settled in New York, N.Y.
1946 Became a naturalized citizen of the United States
1954 B.S., College of the City of New York, New York, N.Y.
Married Anne Pearl Barras. Divorced 1996.
1954-1956 Radar officer, Army Signal Corps
1956-1958 Research assistant, Columbia Radiation Laboratory, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1958 M.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1961 Started thirty-seven year career at Bell Laboratories and its successor Lucent Technologies
1962 Ph.D. in physics, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1964 Discovered with Robert W. Wilson uniform microwave radiation emanating from all directions in the universe, documenting the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe
1972-1976 Director, Radio Research Laboratories, Bell Laboratories
1978 Awarded with Robert W. Wilson the Nobel Prize for Physics
1981-1995 Vice president for research, Bell Laboratories and Lucent Technologies
1989 Published Ideas and Information: Managing in a High-Tech World. New York: Norton
1995 Published Harmony: Business, Technology & Life after Paperwork. New York: HarperBusiness
1995-1998 Vice president and chief scientist, AT &T Bell Laboratories and Lucent Technologies, Bell Laboratories Innovations
1996 Married Sherry Levit
1998- Venture partner, New Enterprise Associates
1850, Dec. 23 Born, Otterberg, Bavaria
1854 Came to America and lived in Talbotton, Ga.
1865 Moved to New York, N.Y.
1871 A.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1873 LL.D., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1873-1881 Practiced law, New York, N.Y.
1881-1906 Member of the firm L. Straus & Sons, importers of pottery and glassware
1882 Married Sarah Lavenburg (died 1945)
1885 Published The Origin of Republican Form of Government in the United States of America. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons
1887-1889 Minister to Ottoman Empire (Turkey)
1894 Published Roger Williams, the Pioneer of Religious Liberty. New York: The Century Co.
1898-1899 Minister to Ottoman Empire (Turkey)
1902-1924 Appointed member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, Hague, Netherlands
1906-1909 United States secretary of commerce and labor; first Jew appointed to a cabinet position
1909-1910 Ambassador to Ottoman Empire (Turkey)
1912 Chairman, arbitration commission to decide wage dispute between eastern railways and their engineers
1913 Published The American Spirit. New York: The Century Co.
1915-1918 Chairman, New York Public Service Commission, First District
1919 Chairman, Paris Committee of the League to Enforce Peace
1919-1920 Member, President's Second Industrial Conference to establish a code of industrial relations
1922 Published autobiography Under Four Administrations, from Cleveland to Taft; Reflections of Oscar S. Straus. New York: Houghton Mifflin
1926, May 3 Died, New York, N.Y.
Robert Emmet Sherwood was born April 4, 1896, in New Rochelle, N.Y. Sherwood was a playwright, editor, screen writer, and cofounder of the Playwrights’ Company, a producing company. He wrote speeches for President Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and from 1941 to 1944 served as head of the overseas branch of the Office of War Information. Sherwood’s book Roosevelt and Hopkins (1948) won the Pulitzer Prize, as did several plays, including The Road to Rome (1927) and Abe Lincoln in Illinois (1938). His original screenplay, The Best Years of Our Lives, won the Academy Award in 1946. Sherwood died in New York, November 14, 1955.
1885 Born, Oxford Junction, Iowa
1905 B.A., Tulane University, New Orleans, La.
1905-1908 Graduate work at Tulane University, New Orleans, La; taught English, history and math, New Orleans, La., high school
1908-1909 American scholar, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1909 M.A., University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1909-1913 Taught high school English, Portland, Oreg.; worked in lumber camps in Oregon and in lead and silver mines in Idaho.
1916 LLB., Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1917-1919 Admitted to the bar and practiced law, Pittsburgh., Pa.
1918 Present at the Czech Declaration of Independence, Philadelphia, Pa.; organized the Czech Relief Fund; did Americanization work for the Council of National Defense
1919-1923 Practiced law in partnership with W. E. Crow and S. Ray Shelby, Uniontown, Pa.
1923-1948 Practiced law, Pittsburgh, Pa.
1929 Received Order of the Revolutionary Medal from the Republic of Czechoslovakia
1929 Traveled to Europe
1932 Participated in a debate on “Revision on the Treaty of Trianon,” Williamstown, Conn.
1937 Received the Order of the White Lion from the Republic of Czechoslovakia
1937-1938 Organizer and chairman, Masaryk Institute
1927-1944 Organizer, Masaryk Birthday Dinners
1937-1938 Organizer, American relief to Czechoslovakia
1944-1948 Organizer, American relief to Czechoslovakia
1948 Died
1866, Oct. 27 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1888 Graduated, Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1889 Ph.D., College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1894 Married Helena (“Lelie”) Dewey Leeming (died 1916)
1896 Met William A. White
1899 Associate editor, Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases; managing editor and owner, 1902-1945
1907-1912 Clinical professor of Mental Diseases, Fordham University, New York, N.Y.
1913 Published with William A. White, The Modern Treatment of Nervous and Mental Diseases. Philadelphia, Pa.: Lea & Febiger
Founded with William A. White, Psychoanalytic Review, the first English-language publication dedicated to psychoanalysis
1915 Published with William A. White, Diseases of the Nervous System: A Text-Book of Neurology and Psychiatry. Philadelphia, Pa.: Lea & Febiger
1918 Published The Technique of Psychoanalysis. New York: Nervous and Mental Disease Publication Co., the first book devoted to analytical technique
1920 Married Belinda (“Bee”) Dobson
1928 Presided over session of July 21, third Conférence des Psychanalystes de Langue Française, Paris, France
1939 Published Sketches in Psychosomatic Medicine. New York: Nervous and Mental Disease Monographs
1945, Sept. 25 Died, Lake George, N.Y.
1866, Jan. 7 Born, San Francisco, Calif.
1887 A.B., University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1888 A.M., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1889-1890 Instructor of economics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1890-1891 Assistant professor of history and politics, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1891-1892 Associate professor of political economy and finance, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1895 Married Mary Sprague
1892-1902 Professor of finance, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1902-1913 Flood professor of economics and commerce, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1913-1914 Assistant to Secretary of the Interior Franklin K. Lane
1914-1936 Member, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System
1921-1933 Member, Inter-American High Commission
1936-1953 Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
1953, Feb. 11 Died, Washington, D.C.
1850, Sept. 15 Born Charles Kirk Munroe, Prairie du Chien, Wis
1867-1868 Explored and surveyed routes for the Union Pacific Railroad Co. and Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway Co.
1868-1869 Attended Lawrence Scientific School of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1876-1879 Reporter, New York Sun and New York Times
1879-1882 Editor, Harper’s Round Table
1880 Founded League of American Wheelmen
1883 Married Mary Barr (died 1922)
1886 Settled in Coconut Grove, Miami, Fla.
Published Wakulla; A Story of Adventure in Florida. New York and London: Harper & Brothers
1887 Published The Flamingo Feather. New York : Harper & Brothers, Franklin Square
1888 Published Derrick Sterling; A Story of Mines. New York: Harper & Brothers
1890-1891 Traveled from Coconut Grove, Fla., to the Ten Thousand Islands in sailboat Allapata
1900 Published Under the Great Bear. New York: Doubleday, Page & Co.
1905 Became a real estate developer, Miami-Dade County, Fla.
Published For the Mikado. New York and London: Harper & Brothers
1924 Married Mabel Stearns
1930, June 16 Died, Miami, Fla.
1898, Nov. 3 Born, Bayonne, N.J.
1920 B.S. in chemistry, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky.
1921 M.S. in chemistry, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Ky. 1922-1924
Staff assistant and research associate, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass. C. Rabelais
1924-1930 Chemical engineer, chemical engineering division, Solvay Process Co., Syracuse, N.Y.; director, 1926-1930
1930 Married Madelaine Johnson (died 1933)
1930-1934 Director, Jasco Inc., Standard Oil Co.of Louisiana, development and research department
1934 Married Georgie
1934-1945 Vice president and director, Hydro Engineering and Chemical Co.
1934-1962 Manager of development and research, Standard Oil Development Co. (later Esson Research and Engineering Co.); successively, vice president, 1937-1946; executive vice president, 1946-1947; and president, 1947-1962
1941-1945 Member, Office of Scientific Research and Development
1942-1945 Member, executive committee, Manhattan Project
1950-1962 General Advisory Committee, Atomic Energy Commission
1951-1959 President, Permanent Council of the World Petroleum Congress
1956-1957 Special assistant to secretary of defense
1962, Oct. 29 Died, Overlook, N.J.
1828, Sept. 20 Born, Newburgh, N.Y.
circa 1841 Entered Geneva College (now Hobart College), Geneva, N.Y.
1851 M.D., Buffalo Medical College, Buffalo, N.Y. 1854 Entered military service
1857 Married Catherine Walden
1858-1861 Appointed by the army to a board to examine signaling principles
Conducted field trial of signaling inventions in the Department of New Mexico
1860 Ordered to organize and command U.S. Army Signal Corps
1860-1863 Served under Benjamin Butler at Fort Monroe, Va., and then as chief signal officer under George Brinton McClellan in the Army of the Potomac
1863 Promoted to colonel in new U.S. Signal Corps, but removed him from his post as chief signal officer by Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton
1864 Publication of Manual of Signals
Appointed signal officer, Military Division of West Mississippi
1864-1865 Signal officer, Department of the Gulf
Developed coding system for transmitting routine messages between land and sea forces
1867-1880 Chief signal officer, Signal Corps
1873 Proposed establishment world-wide of weather-reporting stations, International Meteorological Congress, Vienna, Austria
1880, Aug. 24 Died, Buffalo, N.Y
1807, Jan. 6 Born, Breckinridge County, Ky.
1828 Opened law office, Elizabethtown, Ky.
1832 Moved to Louisville, Ky.
Assistant editor, Louisville Advertiser
1833-1835 Commonwealth’s attorney, Louisville District, Ky.
1835-1842 Practiced law, Port Gibson and Vicksburg, Miss.
1842 Returned to Louisville, Ky.
1848-1851 Toured Europe and Egypt
1852 Supported Franklin Pierce for president
1856 Supported James Buchanan for president
1857 Moved to Washington, D.C.; appointed commissioner of patents
1859-1861 Postmaster general
1861 Secretary of war
1862-1875 Judge advocate general of the army
1865 Presided over military commission to try the Abraham Lincoln assassination conspirators
1866 Published “Vindication of Judge Advocate General Holt,” Washington Chronicle
1875 Retired from the army
1888 Published article on trial of Mary Surratt, North American Review
1894, Aug. 1 Died, Washington, D.C.
1903, Sept. 11 Born, Columbia, Tenn.
1924 B.A., Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
1928 M.D., Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
1928-1929 Intern, St. Thomas Hospital, Nashville, Tenn.
1930 Married Ann Leslie Nichol
1930-1931 Teaching fellow in neurology, Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Mass.
Neurological house officer and resident neurological physician, Boston City Hospital, Boston, Mass.
1931-1932 Assistant in neuropathology, Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Mass.
1932-1935 Assistant physician, Boston Psychopathic Hospital, Boston, Mass.
1933-1934 Graduate assistant, Psychiatric Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.
1935 Began private practice in Boston, Mass.
1936-1942 Research fellow in psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Cambridge, Mass.
1942-1946 Military service, mainly in Southwest Pacific and China
1947 Resumed private practice
1957, Sept. 20 Died, Quincy, Mass.
1891, Aug. 14 Born, Sonora, Calif.
1913 A.B., University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif.
1914 Married Ruth Fisher (died 1975)
1915 S.T.B., Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1916 Ordained Methodist minister
1916-1917 Pastor, Poplar Methodist Church, Popular, Calif.
1917-1927 Founder, pastor, and director, Church of All Nations, Los Angeles, Calif.
1919-1923 Professor of social ethics, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif.
1926 Member, American Delegation to Russia
1927-1928 Professor of practical theology, School of Theology, Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1928-1932 Secretary, World Peace Commission of the Methodist-Episcopal Church
1928-1936 President, DePauw University, Greencastle, Ind.
1936 Elected bishop, Methodist Episcopal Church
1936-1939 Bishop, Methodist Church, Omaha Area, Omaha, Neb.
1939-1944 Bishop, Methodist Church, Boston Area, Boston, Mass.
1939-1944 Chairman, Division of Educational Institutions, Board of Education of the Methodist Church
1940-1948 Chairman, Committee on Public Information of the Methodist Church
1940-1956 Secretary, Council of Bishops of the Methodist Church
1942-1945 Served on National War Labor Board as a special mediator in labor disputes
1942-1945 Member, Civilian Advisory Committee to the Secretary of the Navy
1944-1946 President, Federal Council of Churches
1944-1952 Bishop, Methodist Church, New York City Area, New York, N.Y.
1944-1952 President, Division of Foreign Missions, Board of Missions of the Methodist Church
1945 Chairman, Commission to Study Postwar Relief Conditions in Germany
1945 Official visitor for the Joint Chiefs of Staff to army and navy chaplains, Mediterranean Theater of Operations
1946-1948 Member, President's Committee on Higher Education
1948-1954 One of the presidents of the World Council of Churches
1952-1960 Bishop, Methodist Church, Washington, D.C., Area, Washington, D.C.
1958 President, Methodist Council of Bishops
1963, Mar. 13 Died, White Plains, N.Y.
1978, Aug. 9 Born, Normandy, Bedford County, Tenn.
1897-1900 Attended Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., and Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1898 Married Mackie Paschall
1902 Began business career in Cuba
1905-1917 Organized Trust Co. of Cuba and served as president of the company
1917 Advisor on foreign loans to the secretary of the treasury
1918 Special delgate to Spain and representative of the United States Treasury in London, England and Paris, France
1919 Appointed finance commisioner of the United States to Europe
American member, Armistice Commission
Chairman of the finance section, Supreme Economic Council
Financial advisor to Woodrow Wilson and the American Commission to Negotiate Peace
Member of the Reparations and Financial Commissions
Assistant secretary of the treasury
1920 Under secretary of state and acting secretary of state
Chairman, Conference on International Communications, Washington, D. C.
1924 Chairman, League of Nations Commission to Determine the Status of Memel
1927 Member, American Delegation to the International Economic Conferrence, Geneva Switzerland
Member, League of Nations Financial Committee
1932 Appointed member of of the organizing committee for the International Monetary and Economic Conference
Chairman of the American delegation, Disarmament Conference, Geneva, Switzerland
1935 Head of the American delegation to the London Naval Conference
1937 United States delegate, Nine-Power Conference, Brussels, Belgium
1938-1944 Chairman, American Red Cross
1944, July 1 Died, Alexandria, Va.
1896, Dec. 14 Born, Alameda, Calif.
1916 Entered University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1917 Flying cadet, United States Army Signal Corps
Married Josephine Daniels (died 1988)
1918 Completed flight training and commissioned second lieutenant
1920 Regular commission and promoted to first lieutenant
1922 Bachelor of arts, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
First air crossing of the United States under twenty-four hours
1924 Masters of science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
1925 Doctorate in aeronautical engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Won Schneider Cup Race
1927 First flier to perform outside loop
1930 Resigned regular army commission
Awarded Harmon Trophy
Manager, Aviation Division, Shell Oil Co.
1931 Won Bendix Trophy Race from Burbank, Calif. to Cleveland, Ohio
1932 Won Thompson Trophy, Cleveland, Ohio
1940 President of the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences
Returned to active duty, Army Air Corps
1942 Led sixteen B-25 bombers off deck of aircraft carrier in bombing raid over Japan
Promoted to brigadier general
Promoted to major general
Awarded Congressional Medal of Honor
1943-1945 Commanded Twelfth Air Force in North Africa
Commanded Fifteenth Air Force in Mediterranean theater
Commanded Eighth Air Force in Europe and the Pacific
1946 Inactive reserve status
1946-1967 Vice president, Shell Oil Co.; later a director
1948 Awarded Silver Star
1951 Special assistant to chief of staff, Air Force
1959 Retired from the United States Air Force
1959-1963 Chairman of board of Space Technology Laboratories, Inc., Redondo Beach, Calif.
1983 Received United States Military Academy’s Sylvanus Thayer Award for distinguished military service
1985 Promoted to four star general
1989 Awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
1993, Sept. 27 Died, Pebble Beach, Calif.
1918, May 3 Born, Centerville, Iowa
1937 Photographer, Oroville (Calif.) Mercury-Register
1940 A.B., Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1942-1945 United States Naval Reserve
1946-1949 Reporter, Denver Post
1948 Married Helen Sloane
1949-1953 Reporter, St. Louis Post-Dispatch
1953-1954 Nieman Fellow, Harvard
1954-1969 Member, Washington Bureau, St. Louis Post-Dispatch
1962 Published Men of the Far Right. New York: Pyramid Books
1969-1981 Chief, Washington Bureau, St. Louis Post-Dispatch
1970 Captured and detained by the National Liberation Front of South Vietnam for forty days, Cambodia
1971 Published 40 Days with the Enemy. New York: Liveright
1974 Trustee, Washington Journalism Center
1977-1981 Member, advisory committee, Nieman Foundation for Journalism
1981 Chairman of the board and vice president, Dudman Communications Corp.
1988 Helped open southern Africa news bureau for South-North News Service, Swaziland
1993 Recipient, George Polk Career Award
1994-1996 Trained and coached newspaper reporters and editors, Knight International Media Fellowship, South Africa, with an absence in 1995
2000-2012 Senior contributing editor, Bangor Daily News
1841, Mar. 29 Born, Boston, Mass.
1861 Graduated, Harvard College, Boston, Mass.
1862-1865 Attended Ecole Imperiale des Mines, France
1867-1877 Member, United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel
1872 Exposed a diamond swindle in the Vermillion Creek Basin, Wyo.
1876 Married Weltha Anita Steeves
1877 Joined American Institute of Mining Engineers
1879-1909 Geologist, United States Geological Survey
1882 Published Abstract of a Report upon the Geology and Mining Industry of Leadville, Lake Co., Colorado. Extract from the Annual Report of the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey-1880-81. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office
1885 Published with G. F. Becker Geological Sketches of the Precious Metal Deposits of the Western United States, with Notes on Lead Smelting at Leadville. Extract from the Tenth Census of the United States, Vol. XIII "Statistics and Technology of the Precious Metals." Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office
1889 Married Sophie Dallas Markoe
1891 General secretary, 5th International Geological Congress
1903 President, Geological Society of America
Married Suzanne Earle
1911, Mar. 28 Died, Washington, D.C.
1876, Aug. 10 Born, Washington, D.C.
1894 Graduated,Washington High School, Washington, D.C.
1897 Joined staff of Library of Congress and began work in the Manuscript Division
1913 Published Notes on the Care, Cataloguing and Arranging of Manuscripts. Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office
1918 Edited The Autobiography of Martin Van Buren (issued as vol. 2 of 1918 Annual Report of the American Association . Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1920)
1924 Published The Spirit of the Revolution: New Light from Some of the Original Sources of American History . Boston and New York: Houghton Mifflin Co.
1926 Awarded honorary degree from George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1927 Published George Washington, Colonial Traveller, 1732-1799 . Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill Co.
Promoted to acting chief, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress
1928 Resigned from Library of Congress and assumed editorship for the George Washington Bicentennial Commission of the Writings of George Washington, 39 vols.
1928-1929 President, American Catholic Historical Association
1929 Published The George Washington Scandals , Washington Society of Alexandria, bulletin no. 1
1931 Published Washington as a Religious Man . Washington, D.C.: George Washington Bicentennial Commission
1939 Published Some Historic Houses, Their Builders and Their Plans . New York: The Macmillan Co.
1940, Feb. 10 Died, Washington, D.C.
The New York Society for the Suppression of Vice was founded in 1873 by Anthony Comstock and his supporters as a committee within the Young Men’s Christian Association of the City of New York to supervise public morality in the state, bring offenders to justice, and advocate for stricter legislation against immoral conduct. Chartered by the state legislature, it became prominent as a monitor and censor of literary works and popular literature. Comstock, who became its secretary, was succeeded after his death in 1915 by John S. Summer. The society was dissolved after Summer’s death in 1950.
1870, Dec. 3 Born near Mineral Point, Wis.
1889 Retailer of household goods, veterinarian remedies, and poultry supplies
1890 Married Minnie B. Trevillian
1895 Established the W. T. Rawleigh Co. (president, 1906-1907)
1906-1907 Member, City Council, Freeport, Ill.
1909 Purchaser and editor, Freeport Daily Standard, Freeport, Ill.
1909-1911 Mayor, Freeport, Ill.
Vice president, Illinois Mayors Association
1910-1912 Representative, Illinois House of Representatives
1911 Chairman, Freeport-Hughes Alliance (president, 1916)
Presidential elector, Progressive Party
1911-1912 Expanded the W. T. Rawleigh Co. with branches in Memphis, Tenn., and Winnipeg, Canada, and offices and warehouses in Mexico, France, Zanzibar, and Madagascar, and plantations in the Comeres Islands
1911-1917 President, Rawleigh-Schryer Co.
1923 Married M. Marguerite Schneider
1924 Chairman, La Follette for President Committee
Treasurer, National Joint La Follette-Wheeler Committee
1951 Died
1873, June 27 Born, Sidney, Maine
1895 A.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1898 M.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1903 Ph.D., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Published The English Heroic Play. New York: Columbia University Press, Macmillan Co., agents
1902-1916 Taught English literature at various universities, including Columbia University, New York, N.Y.; University of Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana; University of Louisville, Louisville, Ky.; and University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France
1910 Published Bernard Shaw in France. Bordeaux: Imprimerie nouvelle F. Fech & cie.
1913 Published Poe and His Poetry. London: G. G. Harrap & Co.
1916-1917 Instructor, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.
1917-1919 Acting assistant professor, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY
1919-1922 Professor of English studies, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, India
1921-1925 Taught English at Yenching Peking National University, Peking, China, and Peking Normal University, Peking, China
1925-1927 Lecturer, University of California, Southern Branch, Los Angeles, Calif., and California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.
1927-1929 Taught at Union College, Schenectady, NY
1929-1931 English professor, Duke University, Durham, N.C.
1931-1933 English professor, Brown University, Providence, R.I.
1937 Died
Ebenezer Foote
1756 Born
1783 Left the Continental Army with the rank of major after having volunteered as a soldier at the beginning of the Revolutionary War
circa 1783-1797 In the mercantile business, Ulster County, N. Y.
1798 Appointed county clerk for the newly formed Delaware County, N.Y.
1798-1802 Member, New York State Senate, representing the Middle District
1810-1829 Judge, Ulster County, N.Y.
1911, Sept. 30 Born, Munkács, Hungary
1932 Leader in Hashomer Hatzair, a Zionist youth movement
Married Elvira Strasser (died 1998)
1933 Graduated with degree in mathematics and experimental physics, Royal Hungarian University, Budapest, Hungary
1933-1935 Worked as a surveyor in a kibbutz in Palestine
1935-1938 Analysand of Imre Hermann
1938 Ph.D. in psychology, Royal Hungarian University, Budapest, Hungary
Immigrated to the United States
1939-1940 Staff psychologist, Osawatomie State Hospital, Osawatomie, Kans.
1940-1948 Staff psychologist, research director, and administrator, Menninger Foundation, Topeka, Kans.
1942 Published Emotions and Memory. Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins Co.
1944-1948 Consultant, United States Surgeon General's Committee on Clinical Psychology
1945-1946 Published with Merton Max Gill and Roy Schafer Diagnostic Psychological Testing. Chicago: The Year Book Publishers
1945-1949 Founder and secretary, Division of Clinical and Abnormal Psychology, American Psychological Association
1946-1948 Clinical professor of psychology, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kans.
Consultant, Veterans Administration Hospital, Topeka, Kans.
1948-1960 Research associate, Austen Riggs Center, Stockbridge, Mass.
1951 Published Organization and Pathology of Thought. New York: Columbia University Press
1960 Published The Structure of Psychoanalytic Theory: A Systematizing Attempt. New York: International Universities Press
1960, Dec. 14 Died, Stockridge, Mass.
1967 Publication of Collected Papers of David Rapaport, edited by Merton Max Gill. New York: Basic Books
1895, 18 Apr. Born, Chicago, Ill.
circa 1912-1916 Employed in testing department, Georgia Railway and Electric Co.
1914-1915 Attended Georgia School of Technology
1916 Married Evelyn Elizabeth Hubert
1916-1922 Employed by McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., became successively assistant engineering editor, advertising sales representative, and business manager of the firm's publication, Electrical World
1922 Elected vice president and director of McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.; also appointed publisher of electrical and radio publications and put in charge of sales of the firm's publications
1934-1936 Vice president in charge of sales, National Broadcasting Co.
1936-1940 Vice president, Lord and Thomas advertising agency
1940-1942 Vice president, sales, National Broadcasting Co's. Blue Network
1942-1944 Executive vice president of the Blue Network Co. (later the American Broadcasting Co.)
1944-1949 President, Mutual Broadcasting System
1949-1958 Business consultant, New York, N.Y.
1962, June 3 . Died, Atlantic City, N.J
1739, Mar. 30 Born near New Brunswick, N.J.
1784 Appointed member of the committee to receive subscription for the stock in the Bank of New York
1785 Elected a director of the Bank of New York
1788 Elected on the Federalist slate to the New York state convention that met at Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and ratified the United States Constitution
1793 Gave support to the Society for Establishing Useful Manufactures, Paterson, N.J.
1796 Became a part proprietor of a large tract of land in Jefferson and Lewis counties, New York, beginning his career as a land speculator
1810 Built a hotel and a cotton factory, Ballston, N.Y.
1814 Joined the New York Hussars to defend New York, N.Y., against the British
1826, Nov. 15 Died, New York
1893 Oct. 14 Born, Springfield, Ohio
1901 Made her stage debut
1905 Danced in Sarah Bernhardt's stage production, New York, N.Y.
1912 Began her movie career, working for D. W. Griffith's Biograph Studio, film debut in An Unseen Enemy
1913 Appeared on stage with Mary Pickford in A Good Little Devil
1914 Appeared in the film Birth of a Nation
1915-1916 Appeared in the film Intolerance
1917 Traveled to Europe to appear in D. W. Griffith's film Hearts of the World
1919 Appeared in the film Broken Blossoms
1920 Appeared in the film Way Down East
Directed the film Remodeling Her Husband
1921 Appeared in her last D. W. Griffith film Orphans of the Storm
1925 Joined the Metro-Goldwyn Co.
1925-1932 Involved in litigation resulting from suits filed by producer Charles Duell
1929 Appeared in her first talking motion picture, One Romantic Night
1930 Returned to the stage in the play Uncle Vanya
1948 Appeared on stage in Crime and Punishment
Television debut in The Late Christopher Bean, Philco Playhouse
1950 Appeared on stage in Miss Mabel and The Curious Savage
1954-1960 Appeared in the films Night of the Hunter, Duel in the Sun, Portrait of Jennie, and The Unforgiven
1960-1961 Appeared on stage in The Family Reunion and All the Way Home
1963 Appeared on stage in Too True To Be Good and A Passage to India
1965 Appeared on stage in Romeo and Juliet
1967 Appeared in the film The Comedians
Appeared on the stage in I Never Sang for My Father
1968 Appeared with Helen Hayes in the television version of Arsenic and Old Lace
1969 Published with Ann Pinchot Lillian Gish; The Movies, Mr. Griffith, and Me. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall
1969, 1971-1973 Toured Europe, Russia, and United States as lecturer on the art of film
1971 Received Honorary Academy Award
1973 Published Dorothy and Lillian Gish. New York: Scribner
Received Handel medallion, City of New York, N.Y.
1978 Appeared in the films La Boheme and A Wedding
1980 Appeared in the television film Thin Ice
1982 Received Kennedy Center Honors, Washington, D.C.
1983 Appeared in television production of Hobson's Choice
1984 Received the Lifetime Achievement Award, American Film Institute
Appeared in the film Hambone and Hillie
1987 Last film role in The Whales of August
1993, Feb. 27 Died, New York, N.Y.
1864, Nov. 4 Born, Washington, D.C.
1888 Married W. J. McGee (died 1912)
1892 Received medical degree, Columbian College, Washington, D.C.
1892-1896 Private practice, Washington, D.C.
1898 Appointed acting assistant surgeon general in charge of army under the Army Surgeon General Department Founded Society of Spanish-American War Nurses
1904-1905 Led group of volunteer nurses to Japan, establishing a field hospital for the Imperial Japanese Army and serving as military medical attaché and observer with the Japanese Army in Manchuria.
1940, Oct. 5 Died, Washington, D.C.
1899, 2 Mar. Born, Coolidge, Kans.
1909 B.L., Berea College, Berea, Ky.
1909-1912 Private secretary to president, Berea College, Berea, Ky.
1912-1913 Student, Yale Divinity School, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1913-1914 Secretarial work, Union Pacific Railroad, Omaha, Neb.
1914-1919 Secretarial and executive work for International Committee of YMCA and other organizations, New York
1916 Married Amy Burt Bridgeman
1916-1924 Geographical research, map compilation, editor, American Book Co., including maps for World Missionary Atlas, 1921-1924
1924 M.A. in geography, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1924-1954 Geographer, Department of State
1939-1942 Lecturer, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1945-1946 Lecturer, American University, Washington, D.C.
1954 Died
1878 Born, Kingston, N.Y.
1900 Graduate Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1900-1916 Secretary to Senator Henry Cabot Lodge
1916 Executive, Stone and Webster
1921-1923 Secretary to Vice President Calvin Coolidge
1923-1929 Secretary to President Calvin Coolidge for full term and resigned to enter private business
1929 Vice president, Drugs Inc.
1932 Retired briefly from private business to be secretary to Herbert Hoover for a few months during the presidential campaign
1935, Dec. 16 Died, Washington, D.C
1772, Jan. 14 Born, Dutchess County, N.Y.
1780 Moved to Pittsburgh, Pa.
1790 Participated in Josiah Harmar's campaign against the Shawnee Tribe of Native Americans and other expeditions
1792-1793 Worked as a salt-boiler near Maysville, Ky.
1793 Joined a party surveying under Nathaniel Massie from the Scioto River Valley to the area around Chillicothe, Ohio
circa 1893-1895 Observed the movement of Native Americans as a ranger
1795 Rejoined Nathaniel Massie and learned surveying
1796 Married Nancy McDonald and settled near Chillicothe, Ohio
1804 Elected to lower house, Ohio legislature
1805-1814 Member, Ohio state senate, speaker for the 1809-1810 session
1806 Elected a colonel in the Ohio militia
1808 Promoted to major-general
1812 Marched with Ohio militia for Detroit and later was elected colonel of one of the three militia regiments under the command of William Hull
1813 Brigadier general, Ohio Volunteers in defense of Fort Meigs
1814 Commanded troops at Sacketts Harbor on Lake Ontario and later appointed commander of the army in the Northwest
1815-1816 Member, lower house, Ohio state legislature
1816 Member of various commissions for treaty-making with Native Americans
1817-1818 Member, lower house, Ohio state legislature
1821-1823 Member, upper house, Ohio state legislature
1823-1825 Member, United States Congress
1829-1830 Member, upper house, Ohio state legislature
1830-1832 Governor of Ohio
1839, Apr. 28 Died at "Fruit Hill" near Chillicothe, Ohio
1874, Jan. 1 Born, Boston, Mass.
1881 Moved to Grand Rapids, Mich.
1898 A.B., Alma College, Alma, Mich.
Private in “Rough Rider” regiment of Leonard Wood and Theodore Roosevelt
1890 Married Annie Reid
1898 Reporter, Grand Rapids Herald
1902 With John Adam Muehling purchased the Lake Superior Journal, Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.
1912 Sold Lake Superior Journal and started the Manchester Union and Leader. Manchester, N.H.
1917-1918 Artillery officer with American Expeditionary Force in France
1928 Became publisher of Boston American for William Randolph Hearst
1929 Appointed general manager for all Hearst newspapers
1931 Resigned from Hearst organization
1932 Purchased with Theodore Ellis the Chicago Daily News
1933 Became sole owner of the Chicago Daily News
1936 Nominated and campaigned as Republican vice-presidential candidate
1940 Appointed secretary of the navy
1944, Apr. 28 Died, Washington, D.C.
1915, Apr. 15 Born, Dayton, Ohio
1936 Graduated, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, Ohio
1937-1938 Secretary, International Student Service of the United States
1939 Editor, SOS, a publication of Student Defenders of Democracy
1940 Married Adrienne Rauchwerger
1940-1941 Publications director, Fight for Freedom Committee and Fight for Freedom,Inc.
1941-1952 Reporter and Albany correspondent, New York Post
1959 Edited with Eric Sevareid Candidates 1960. New York: Basic Books.
1952-1961 Washington, D. C., correspondent, New York Post
1956-1969 Wrote syndicated column Watch on the Potomac
1966-1970 Published newsletter Spivack Report
1970, June 25 Died, Riverside, Conn.
1871, Jan. 25 . Born, Boston, Mass.
1887 Graduated, St. Agnes School, Albany, N.Y.
1889-1891 Teacher, public schools of Bedford, Mass.
1897 Married Charles Edward Park (died 1904)
1898 A.B., Radcliffe College, Cambridge, Mass.
1900 Cofounder and president, Massachusetts branch, College Equal Suffrage League
1901-1905 Secretary, Boston Equal Suffrage Association, Boston, Mass
1907 Worked and lived in settlement quarters in California, Colorado, and Washington state
1908 Married (secretly) Robert Freeman Hunter (died 1928)
1908-1910 World tour to study conditions of women around the world
1917-1920 Chairman, Congressional Committee, National American Woman Suffrage Association
1920-1924 First president, National League of Women Voters
1920 Formed the Women’s Joint Congressional Committee
1923 Headed United States delegation, Congress of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance, Rome, Italy
1925-1928 Counselor on legislation, National League of Women Voters
1928 Vice chairman, Women’s Committee for Hoover
1930-1940 Wrote several novels and plays under the pseudonym C. J. Maywood
1938 Published Lucy Stone. Boston: Walter H. Baker Co.
1955, May 9 Died, Melrose, Mass.
1960 Posthumous publication of Front Door Lobby. Boston: Beacon Press. Edited by Edna Lamprey Stantial
1852, May 14 Born, Cortland, N. Y.
1873 LL.B., Albany Law School, Albany, N.Y.
1873 Married Mary Louise Schoonmaker (died 1917)
1885 Appointed justice, New York supreme court
Chairman, New York Democratic State Committee
1897-1904 Appointed chief judge, New York Court of Appeals
1904 Democratic Party candidate for president of the United States
1907 Elected president, American Bar Association
1919 Dedicated home of George Washington's ancestors, Manchester, England
1923 Married Amelia Day Campbell
1926, May 10 Died, New York, N.Y.
1873, 19 Aug. Born, Corry, Pa.
1896 Ph.B., Adelbert College, Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio
1903-1909 Co-edited with Emma Helen Blair The Philippine Islands, 1493-1803. Cleveland: A. H. Clark. 55 vols.
1906 L.H.D., Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio
1916-1917 Research assistant, Carnegie Institution, Washington, D.C.
1910-1916 Librarian, Philippine Library, Manila, Philippine Islands.
1912 Married Cora Moore Halsey
1916 Founded Hispanic American Historical Review
1917-1923 Served in Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Commerce Department
1918-1922 Managing editor, Hispanic American Historical Review (also in 1926-1939)
1923-1933 Research professor, American history, John B. Stetson University: Deland, Fla.
1923-1939 Executive secretary, Florida State Historical Society
1931 Organized Inter-American Bibliographical Association
1932 Translated and edited True Relation of the Hardships Suffered by Governor Fernando de So . . . Deland, Fla: Florida State Historical Society. 2 vols.
1935 Appointed archivist, state of Maryland
1936 Awarded Cervantes Medal for outstanding contributions in field of Florida history
1938 Elected vice president, Society of American Archivists
1939, 10 Mar. Died, Annapolis, Md.
1797, Feb. 28 Born, Mallow (near Cork), Ireland
1820 Began study of medicine, Paris, France
1823 Emigrated to Canada to complete studies; admitted to medical practice
1830 Moved from Quebec to Montreal, Canada
1834 Became editor of Montreal Vindicator
1835 Elected to assembly of Upper Canada from Yamaska
1837 Participated in revolutionary action at St. Denis; fled Canada to avoid prosecution and settled in Albany, N. Y.
1837-1848 Practiced medicine
1846-1848 Published History of New Netherland. New York: D. Appleton. 2 vols.
1848-1870 Devoted full time to editing New York state records
1850-1851 Published The Documentary History of the State of New York. Albany, N.Y.: Weed, Parsons. 4 vols.
1852(?)-1870 Edited colonial archives while attached to the office of the New York secretary of state
1870-1877 Moved to New York, N.Y., to arrange and translate the municipal archives
1880, May 29 Died, New York, N.Y
1918, Nov. 8 Born, Bay City, Mich.
1941 S.B. in chemistry, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1942 Joined the University of Chicago’s Metallurgical Laboratory (code name for the Manhattan Project) as a member of Charles D. Coryell's team, Chicago, Ill.
1943-1945 Transferred to Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tenn.
1945 Discovered with Jacob A. Marinsky, Promethium, the 61st element on the periodic table
One of sixty-seven Oak Ridge Laboratory scientists who signed the Oak Ridge petition calling for President Harry S. Truman to describe and demonstrate the atomic bomb's power and give Japan the opportunity to surrender
Married Ethel Long
1946-1949 Ph.D. in nuclear chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1947 Patent issued for Brady-Glendenin safety pipette
Member of radio chemistry team, Bikini Scientific Resurvey, studying effects of atomic bomb testing on the Bikini Atoll (Marshall Islands)
1949-1985 Senior scientist, Chemistry Division, Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, Ill.
1958 Visiting scientist, Metallurgy Division, Harwell Laboratory, Oxon, United Kingdom
1963 Appointed scientific secretary, United States delegation to the International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, Geneva Switzerland
1974 American Chemical Society Award for Nuclear Applications in Chemistry
2008 Died, Nov. 22, Crystal Lake, Ill.
1797, Jan. 2 Born, Burlington, N.J.
1819-1821 Published the National Recorder, a weekly literary paper, Philadelphia, Pa.
1822-1844 Published the Museum of Foreign Literature and Science, a monthly magazine, Philadelphia, Pa.
1844 Began publishing the Littell's Living Age, a weekly literary periodical, Boston, Mass.
1855 Began publishing the Panorama of Life and Literature, a monthly magazine, Boston, Mass.
1833 Drafted the Compromise Tariff of 1833, carried through Congress by Henry Clay
1870, May 17 Died, Brookline, Mass.
1941, Aug. 1 Born, Washington, D. C.
1962 Graduated, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt., and married Alma Arrington
1963-1967 Served in U. S. Army
1970 J. D., St. John's University School of Law, New York, N. Y.
1968-1979 Lobbyist and deputy executive director for programs, National Urban League
1979-1980 Deputy campaign manager, Edward Kennedy presidential campaign
1981-1985 Deputy chairman and chief counsel, Democratic National Committee
1988 Campaign manager, Jesse Jackson presidential campaign
1989-1992 Chairman, Democratic National Committee
1993-1996 U. S. secretary of commerce
1996, Apr. 3 Died in airplane crash, Dubrovnik, Croatia
1858, June 24 Born, Boston, Mass.
1879 Graduated, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
Circa 1879-1899 Businessman, Boston, Mass.
1889 Member, Common Council, Boston., Mass.
1892-1897 Member, Massachusetts house of representatives (speaker of the house, 1895-1897)
1900-1904 Member, Republican National Committee
1900-1905 Ambassador to Italy
1905-1907 Ambassador to Russia
1907-1909 Postmaster general
1909-1913 Secretary of the navy
1918, Mar. 9 Died, Boston, Mass.
1873, June 24 Born, Abbeville, S.C.
1894 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1915 General Staff corps
1916 Attaché and observer with Russian army
1918 Commanding officer, 119th Infantry, 171st Infantry Brigade
1919 Head, Visitors’ Bureau, American Expeditionary Forces
1921-1923 Military attaché to Mexico
1924 Member, United States-Mexico Claims Commission
1925-1926 Member, Tacna-Arica Arbitration Commission
1928 Vice chairman, National Board of Elections, Nicaragua
1929-1933 Chief, Bureau of Insular Affairs
1936 Retired from active service
1966, May 16 Died, Charleston, S.C.
1860, Feb. 9 Born, Woburn, Mass.
1879-1880 First assistant librarian, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1880 A.B., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1883 A.M., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Graduated, Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford, Conn.
1884-1890 Librarian, Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford Conn.
1885-1890 Associate professor of bibliography
1887 Ph.D., Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, Pa.
1890-1920 Librarian, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
1891 Married, Grace Duncan Ely
1896 Honorary A.M., Princeton University, Princeton, N.Y.
1900-1912 Member, New Jersey Public Library Commission
1904-1905 President, American Library Association
1915-1918 President, American Library Institute
1920-1923 Director, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
1923-1925 Honorary director emeritus and research professor of bibliography
1925 Consultant in bibliography and research, Library of Congress
1939, June 3 Died, Princeton, N.J.
Giles Foster Montgomery
1835, Nov. 8 Born, Walden, Vt.
1860 Graduated, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.
1863 Graduated, Lane Seminary, Cincinnati, Ohio
Married Emily Redington
Sailed to Turkey as a missionary
1864 Stationed at Adana, Turkey
1865 Transferred to Marash, Turkey
1883 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1885 Assumed pastorate, Phoenix, Oswego Co., N.Y.
1886 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1888 Died, Adana, Turkey
Emily Redington Montgomery
1839, Aug. 2 Born, Moscow, N.Y.
1863 Married Giles Foster Montgomery
Sailed to Turkey as missionary
1876 Visited the United States
1877 Returned to Marash, Turkey
1883 Transferred to Adana, Turkey
1884 Returned to the United States
1887 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1888 Moved to New Haven, Conn.
1892 Returned to Turkey
1898, Feb. 19 Died, Beirut, Syria
George Redington Montgomery
1870, June 17 Born, Marash, Turkey
1892 A.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1894 LL.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1897 War correspondent, London Standard, and special correspondent, London Daily Graphic, London England
1897-1898 Student, University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany
1900 B.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1900-1904 Lecturer, Department of Philosophy, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1901 Ph.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Ordained Congregationalist minister
1901-1904 Pastor, Olivet Church, Bridgeport, Conn.
1902 Married Emily E. Emerson (died 1903)
1903 Published The Place of Values. Bridgeport, Conn.: G. R. Montgomery
1904-1905 Professor of philosophy, Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.
1906-1916 Assistant minister, Madison Square Presbyterian Church, New York, N.Y.
1907 Married Helen M. Perkins
1910 Published The Unexplored Self. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons
1911-1918 Lecturer, New York University, New York, N.Y.
1916 Special assistant to the United States ambassador, Constantinople, Turkey
1917 Air service, Paris, France
1918 Secretary of Paris Division, YMCA
Attached to Paris Peace Conference
1919 Technical adviser, Inter-allied Commission on Mandates in Turkey (King-Crane Commission)
1919-1920 Assistant professor of French, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1920-1923 Director, Armenia America Society
1925-1940 Pastor, Noroton Presbyterian Church, Darien, Conn.
1929-1945 Editorial writer, Stamford Advocate
1940-1945 Pastor emeritus, Noroton Presbyterian Church, Darien, Conn.
1942 Published English Language Sounds. Stamford, Conn.: R. Montgomery Publishing Co.
1945, Nov. 29 Died, Stamford, Conn.
Marshall Hugh Montgomery
1909, May 16 Born, New York
1931 B.A., Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.
1933 Married Prudence B. Ingham
1931-1940 Discount banker, New York Hanseatic Corp.
1940-1951 Secretary, D. W. Rich & Co.
1951-1974 Vice president, Aubrey G. Langston & Co.
Member, American Stock Exchange
2000, Oct. 11 Died, Delray Beach, Fla.
Giles Foster Montgomery
1835, Nov. 8 Born, Walden, Vt.
1860 Graduated, Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.
1863 Graduated, Lane Seminary, Cincinnati, Ohio
Married Emily Redington
Sailed to Turkey as a missionary
1864 Stationed at Adana, Turkey
1865 Transferred to Marash, Turkey
1883 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1885 Assumed pastorate, Phoenix, Oswego Co., N.Y.
1886 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1888 Died, Adana, Turkey
Emily Redington Montgomery
1839, Aug. 2 Born, Moscow, N.Y.
1863 Married Giles Foster Montgomery
Sailed to Turkey as missionary
1876 Visited the United States
1877 Returned to Marash, Turkey
1883 Transferred to Adana, Turkey
1884 Returned to the United States
1887 Returned to Adana, Turkey
1888 Moved to New Haven, Conn.
1892 Returned to Turkey
1898, Feb. 19 Died, Beirut, Syria
George Redington Montgomery
1870, June 17 Born, Marash, Turkey
1892 A.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1894 LL.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1897 War correspondent, London Standard, and special correspondent, London Daily Graphic, London England
1897-1898 Student, University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany
1900 B.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1900-1904 Lecturer, Department of Philosophy, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1901 Ph.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Ordained Congregationalist minister
1901-1904 Pastor, Olivet Church, Bridgeport, Conn.
1902 Married Emily E. Emerson (died 1903)
1903 Published The Place of Values. Bridgeport, Conn.: G. R. Montgomery
1904-1905 Professor of philosophy, Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.
1906-1916 Assistant minister, Madison Square Presbyterian Church, New York, N.Y.
1907 Married Helen M. Perkins
1910 Published The Unexplored Self. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons
1911-1918 Lecturer, New York University, New York, N.Y.
1916 Special assistant to the United States ambassador, Constantinople, Turkey
1917 Air service, Paris, France
1918 Secretary of Paris Division, YMCA
Attached to Paris Peace Conference
1919 Technical adviser, Inter-allied Commission on Mandates in Turkey (King-Crane Commission)
1919-1920 Assistant professor of French, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1920-1923 Director, Armenia America Society
1925-1940 Pastor, Noroton Presbyterian Church, Darien, Conn.
1929-1945 Editorial writer, Stamford Advocate
1940-1945 Pastor emeritus, Noroton Presbyterian Church, Darien, Conn.
1942 Published English Language Sounds. Stamford, Conn.: R. Montgomery Publishing Co.
1945, Nov. 29 Died, Stamford, Conn.
Marshall Hugh Montgomery
1909, May 16 Born, New York
1931 B.A., Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vt.
1933 Married Prudence B. Ingham
1931-1940 Discount banker, New York Hanseatic Corp.
1940-1951 Secretary, D. W. Rich & Co.
1951-1974 Vice president, Aubrey G. Langston & Co.
Member, American Stock Exchange
2000, Oct. 11 Died, Delray Beach, Fla.
1874 Born, Olympia, Wash.
1892 Graduated high school, Lawrenceville, N. J.
1896 A.B., Princeton University, Princeton, N.Y.
1899 L.L.B., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
Began practice of law, Philadelphia, Pa.
1904 Member, firm of Duane, Morris and Heckscher
1908-1916 Chairman, Democratic Finance Committee of Pennsylvania
1913-1916 State chairman, Democratic Party in Pennsylvania
1917-1921 Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Japan
1918-1919 Special mission to Siberia
1920-1921 Acting assistant secretary of state
1924 Professor of international law, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1928-1933 Pennsylvania State Board of Law Examiners
1814, Nov. 12 Born, Buckland, Mass.
1838 Graduated, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1842 Became member of the bar, Franklin County, Mass.
1848-1850 Member, Massachusetts state legislature
1851-1852 Senator, Massachusetts state legislature
1853 Member, Massachusetts state constitutional convention
1864 Presidential elector for Abraham Lincoln from Massachusetts
1874, Oct. 28 Died, Greenfield, Mass.
1894, Jan. 18 Born, Smithville, Ohio
1917 B.A., Goshen College, Goshen, Ind.
1921-1923 Instructor of political economy, University of Illinois, Chicago, Ill.
1922 A.M., University of Illinois, Chicago, Ill.
Married Mary Blosser (died 1960)
1923-1928 Professor of economics, Simmons College, Boston, Mass.
1928-1929 Fellow, Post-graduate Institute of International Studies, Geneva, Switzerland
D.Sc., political science, Université de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland
1930 Published The Open Door and the Mandates System. London: G. Allen & Unwin Ltd.
1930-1939 Member, Information and Mandates Section, League of Nations Secretariat
1939-1940 Commissioner-General, League of Nations Pavilion, New York World's Fair, New York, N.Y.
1940-1942 Associate professor of government, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.
1942 Lecturer, political science, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
Divisional assistant, Division of Special Research, State Department
1944 Technical advisor, United States delegation, Dumbarton Oaks Conference, Washington, D.C.
1944-1961 Chief, Division of Dependent Area Affairs, State Department
1945 Adviser, United States delegation, United Nations Conference on International Organization, San Francisco, Calif.
Principal advisor to United States representative and alternate delegate, Executive Committee, Preparatory Commission of the United Nations, London, England
1945-1961 Chief, Division of Department Area Affairs; associate chief, Division of International Organization Affairs, State Department\
1946 Adviser, United States delegation, United Nations General Assembly, first session
1947-1953 Chairman, Interdepartmental Committee of United States Government on Non-self-governing Territories
1948 United States representative, United Nations Special Committee on Information from Non-self-governing Territories, Geneva, Switzerland; adviser, United States delegation, United Nations General Assembly, Paris, France
1960 Superior Service Award for service as director, Office of Dependent Area Affairs, State Department
1961 Retired, State Department
Honorary doctor of laws, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.
1963 Married Pearl Van Pelt Harris
1966 Coauthor, International Peace Observation, a History and Forecast. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press
1976, Feb. 26 Died, Venice, Fla.
1897, Aug. 21 Born, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1919 A.B., Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
1919-1920 Taught, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1921 Married Donald Ross Green
1925 M.A., Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.
1925-1932 Taught, Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.
1937 Ph.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1939-1947 Taught, Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
1942-1945 Historian, Army Ordnance Department, Springfield, Mass.
1947-1948 Consulting historian, American Red Cross
1948-1951 Chief historian, Ordnance, Army History Division, Department of Defense
1951-1954 Historian, Research and Development Board, Office of the Secretary of Defense
1954-1960 Director, Washington, D.C., history project
1962-1963 Published Washington. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press. 2 vols.
1963 Awarded Pulitzer Prize
1975, Dec. 5 Died, Annapolis Md.
1850, 21 June Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1880-1884 Student, Art Students League, New York, N.Y.
1882 Published What To Do and How To Do It. The American Boys Handy Book. New York: C. Scribner's Sons
1889 Illustrated first edition of Mark Twain's Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
1893-1900 Taught, New York School of Applied Design for Woman, New York, N.Y.
1894 Married Beatrice Alice Jackson
1905 Founded Sons of Daniel Boone
1905-1906 Editor, Recreation magazine
1910 Cofounder, Boy Scouts of America
1910-1941 National scout commissioner and member of the executive board, Boy Scouts of America
1911-1915 Organized and directed Department of Woodcraft, Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
1915 Established Dan Beard Outdoor School for Boys
1939 Published Hardly a Man Is Now Alive. New York: Doubleday, Doran
1941, 11 June Died, Suffern, N.Y.
1886, May 16 Born, Lynchburg, Va.
1904 A.B., Richmond College, Richmond, Va.
1908 Ph.D., Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1914 Married Inez Virginia Goddin
1915 Commissioned by Scribner's Sons to write biography of Robert E. Lee
1915-1949 Editor, Richmond News Leader
1934-1935 Published R. E. Lee: A Biography. New York: Scribner's. 4 vols.
1934 Awarded Pulitzer Prize
Rector and president, Board of Trustees of the University of Richmond, Richmond, Va.
1934-1941 Taught journalism, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1936 Lectured at Army War College
1939 Published The South to Posterity; An Introduction to the Writings of Confederate History. New York: Scribner's
1942-1944 Published Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command. New York: Scribner's. 3 vols.
1948-1957 Published George Washington, a Biography. New York: Scribner's. 7 vols. (vol. 7 by John A. Carroll and Mary W. Ashworth)
1953, June 13 Died, Richmond, Va.
1865, Sept. 2 Born, Appomattox County, Va.
circa 1885 Educated at Washington & Lee University, Lexington, Va., and University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
1886 LL.B.; admitted to the bar
1887-1891 Member, Virginia house of delegates
1891-1903 Member, Virginia senate
1891 Elected prosecuting attorney for Appomattox County, Va. (also in 1895 and 1899)
1892 Presidential elector, 10th Congressional District, Va.
1901-1902 Member, Virginia Constitutional Convention
1901-1921 U.S. representative from Virginia; chairman, Foreign Affairs Committee, 62nd-65th Congresses
1904-1914 Member, Board of Visitors, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.
1921, Dec. 8 Died, Washington, D.C.
1875, Dec. 12 Born, Lynn, Mass.
1898 A.B. Harvard University, Cambridge, Md.
1901-1902 Traveled in Asia and Europe
1902-1903 Traveled in Russia
1903-1904 Attended University of Berlin, Berlin, Germany
1904-1907 Attended University of Paris, Paris, France
1906 Earned French law degree
1906 Graduate, Diplomatic Section, Ecole libre des sciences politiques, Paris, France
1907 Secretary adjoint, Second International Peace Conference, Hague, Netherlands, and also secretary of the Panama delegation
1908-1909 Secretary, American delegation, International Naval Conference, London, England
1908-1910 Instructor in international law, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1909 Became doctor of laws
1910-1913 Assistant professor in international law, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1912 Married Cecile M. Roberts
1913-1914 Lecturer in international law, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1914-1916 Associate professor in international Law, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1922 Professor in international law, American University, Washington, D.C.
1935 President, Better Government League, Washington, D.C.
1935-1944 Chairman, Department of International Affairs
1942-1943 Exchange professor, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
1958, Jan. Died, San Francisco, Calif.
Paul Field Sifton
1897, Oct. 17 Born, Rockford, Ill.
1915 Graduate, Benton Harbor, Mich., high school
1917-1919 Private, first class, Headquarters Company, 6th Field Artillery, 1st Division, American Expeditionary Forces, invalided out with diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis
1919-1920 Attended University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo., on federal program for disabled veterans
1921 Attended London School of Economics, London, England
1922 Married Claire E. Ginsburg
1922-1923 Reporter, Des Moines Register, Staten Island Advance, United Press syndicate, Chicago Journal, and the New Leader
1923-1931 Assistant Sunday editor, feature writer, and reporter, New York World
1927 Play, The Belt, produced by the New Playwrights' Theatre, published by Macaulay, New York
1929 Veterans Administration ruled tuberculosis that his was arrested; awarded reduced disability pension
1930 Play written with Claire Sifton, Midnight, produced by the Theatre Guild; Universal motion picture (1934); and West German television play (1957)
1931 Play written with Claire Sifton, 1931---, produced by the Group Theatre and the Theatre Guild; published by Farrar & Rinehart, New York; and produced in London as The Age of Plenty (1933)
1933 Play written with Claire Sifton, Blood on the Moon, produced at the Mayan Theatre, Los Angeles, Calif; the London, England, production was halted by the Lord Chamberlain as an unfriendly act to a foreign country, Germany
1933-1934 On editorial staff, New Yorker
1934-1938 Labor publications editor, assistant industrial commissioner, deputy industrial commissioner and administrator, and executive director, Division of Placement and Unemployment Insurance, New York State Department of Labor
1938 One-act play written with Claire Sifton, Give All Thy Terrors to the Wind, published in the New Theatre an Film Magazine (January 1938), and in the anthology, Best Short Plays of the Social Theatre, edited by William Kozlenko (New York, Random House, 1938)
One-act play written with Claire Sifton, Kate Larsen, published in the One Act Play Magazine (June-July 1938 issue)
1938-1939 Deputy administrator, Wages and Hours Division, U.S. Department of Labor
1939 One-act play written with Claire Ginsburg Sifton, The Doctors, produced in Boston, Mass., and Baltimore, Md.
1939-1941 Consumers' counsel, Bituminous Coal Administration, U.S. Department of the Interior
1942-1945 Labor and public relations director, National Farmers' Union, Washington, D.C., office
1944-1945 Director, Washington D. C., office, Union for Democratic Action [later Americans for Democratic Action], and editor with Claire Sifton of the U.D.A. Congressional Newsletter
1945-1947 Worked on legislative and public relations for various causes, including Full Employment Bill (1945), protection of the Children's Bureau under Reorganization Bill No. 2 (1946), Labor Extension Service bill, National Council for a permanent Fair Employment Practices bill), National Consumers' League, and others
1948-1962 National legislative representative, United Automobile Workers [later part of the Congress of Industrial Organizations]
1963 Diagnosed as having chronic bronchitis; Veterans Administration awarded higher disability pension; emphysema and bronchiectasis claims disallowed as not service-connected
1972, Apr. 4 Died, Oaxaca, Mexico
Claire Sifton
1897, Dec. 23 Born, Campos, Rio de Janiero State, Brazil
1911-1914 Attended Greenville, S.C., Female Seminary, and Hyde Park School, Kansas City, Mo.
1915-1918 Attended Stephens College, Columbia, Mo.
1920 B.A. in journalism, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
1920-1922 Worked in Chicago, Ill., as feature writer for Montgomery Ward and Co., and the Saturday Blade
1922 Married Paul Field Sifton
1923-31 Worked as feature writer and freelance journalist for the Public Ledger, the Fifth Avenue Coach Co., and the New York Evening World syndicate, and others
1929 Published under the name of Claire Morton The Perfect Baby. New York: Vanguard Press
1930 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, Midnight, produced by the Theatre Guild; Universal motion picture (1934); and West German television play (1957)
1931 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, 1931---, produced by the Group Theatre and the Theatre Guild; published by Farrar & Rinehart, New York; and produced in London as The Age of Plenty (1933)
1933 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, Blood on the Moon, produced at the Mayan Theatre, Los Angeles, Calif.; London, England, production was halted by Lord Chamberlain as an unfriendly act to a foreign country, Germany
1938 One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, Give All Thy Terrors to the Wind, published in the New Theatre and Film Magazine (January 1938), and in the anthology, Best Short Plays of the Social Theatre, edited by William Kozlenko. New York: Random House
One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, Kate Larsen, published in the One Act Play Magazine (June-July 1938)
1939 One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, The Doctors, produced in Boston, Mass., and Baltimore, Md. theaters
1939-1942 Freelance writer, Washington, D.C.
1940 One-act play, Ernie, published in the One Act Play Magazine and Theatre Review (January 1940)
1943-1945 Coeditor with Paul Field Sifton of the U.D.A.Congressional Newsletter, for the Union for Democratic Action
1946-1948 Editorial consultant for the National Education Association and for the U.S. Children's Bureau
1949-1962 Freelance writer, Washington, D.C.
1980, Feb. 9 Died, Oaxaca, Mexico
Paul Field Sifton
1897, Oct. 17 Born, Rockford, Ill.
1915 Graduate, Benton Harbor, Mich., high school
1917-1919 Private, first class, Headquarters Company, 6th Field Artillery, 1st Division, American Expeditionary Forces, invalided out with diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis
1919-1920 Attended University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo., on federal program for disabled veterans
1921 Attended London School of Economics, London, England
1922 Married Claire E. Ginsburg
1922-1923 Reporter, Des Moines Register, Staten Island Advance, United Press syndicate, Chicago Journal, and the New Leader
1923-1931 Assistant Sunday editor, feature writer, and reporter, New York World
1927 Play, The Belt, produced by the New Playwrights' Theatre, published by Macaulay, New York
1929 Veterans Administration ruled tuberculosis that his was arrested; awarded reduced disability pension
1930 Play written with Claire Sifton, Midnight, produced by the Theatre Guild; Universal motion picture (1934); and West German television play (1957)
1931 Play written with Claire Sifton, 1931---, produced by the Group Theatre and the Theatre Guild; published by Farrar & Rinehart, New York; and produced in London as The Age of Plenty (1933)
1933 Play written with Claire Sifton, Blood on the Moon, produced at the Mayan Theatre, Los Angeles, Calif; the London, England, production was halted by the Lord Chamberlain as an unfriendly act to a foreign country, Germany
1933-1934 On editorial staff, New Yorker
1934-1938 Labor publications editor, assistant industrial commissioner, deputy industrial commissioner and administrator, and executive director, Division of Placement and Unemployment Insurance, New York State Department of Labor
1938 One-act play written with Claire Sifton, Give All Thy Terrors to the Wind, published in the New Theatre an Film Magazine (January 1938), and in the anthology, Best Short Plays of the Social Theatre, edited by William Kozlenko (New York, Random House, 1938)
One-act play written with Claire Sifton, Kate Larsen, published in the One Act Play Magazine (June-July 1938 issue)
1938-1939 Deputy administrator, Wages and Hours Division, U.S. Department of Labor
1939 One-act play written with Claire Ginsburg Sifton, The Doctors, produced in Boston, Mass., and Baltimore, Md.
1939-1941 Consumers' counsel, Bituminous Coal Administration, U.S. Department of the Interior
1942-1945 Labor and public relations director, National Farmers' Union, Washington, D.C., office
1944-1945 Director, Washington D. C., office, Union for Democratic Action [later Americans for Democratic Action], and editor with Claire Sifton of the U.D.A. Congressional Newsletter
1945-1947 Worked on legislative and public relations for various causes, including Full Employment Bill (1945), protection of the Children's Bureau under Reorganization Bill No. 2 (1946), Labor Extension Service bill, National Council for a permanent Fair Employment Practices bill), National Consumers' League, and others
1948-1962 National legislative representative, United Automobile Workers [later part of the Congress of Industrial Organizations]
1963 Diagnosed as having chronic bronchitis; Veterans Administration awarded higher disability pension; emphysema and bronchiectasis claims disallowed as not service-connected
1972, Apr. 4 Died, Oaxaca, Mexico
Claire Sifton
1897, Dec. 23 Born, Campos, Rio de Janiero State, Brazil
1911-1914 Attended Greenville, S.C., Female Seminary, and Hyde Park School, Kansas City, Mo.
1915-1918 Attended Stephens College, Columbia, Mo.
1920 B.A. in journalism, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
1920-1922 Worked in Chicago, Ill., as feature writer for Montgomery Ward and Co., and the Saturday Blade
1922 Married Paul Field Sifton
1923-31 Worked as feature writer and freelance journalist for the Public Ledger, the Fifth Avenue Coach Co., and the New York Evening World syndicate, and others
1929 Published under the name of Claire Morton The Perfect Baby. New York: Vanguard Press
1930 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, Midnight, produced by the Theatre Guild; Universal motion picture (1934); and West German television play (1957)
1931 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, 1931---, produced by the Group Theatre and the Theatre Guild; published by Farrar & Rinehart, New York; and produced in London as The Age of Plenty (1933)
1933 Play written with Paul Field Sifton, Blood on the Moon, produced at the Mayan Theatre, Los Angeles, Calif.; London, England, production was halted by Lord Chamberlain as an unfriendly act to a foreign country, Germany
1938 One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, Give All Thy Terrors to the Wind, published in the New Theatre and Film Magazine (January 1938), and in the anthology, Best Short Plays of the Social Theatre, edited by William Kozlenko. New York: Random House
One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, Kate Larsen, published in the One Act Play Magazine (June-July 1938)
1939 One-act play written with Paul Field Sifton, The Doctors, produced in Boston, Mass., and Baltimore, Md. theaters
1939-1942 Freelance writer, Washington, D.C.
1940 One-act play, Ernie, published in the One Act Play Magazine and Theatre Review (January 1940)
1943-1945 Coeditor with Paul Field Sifton of the U.D.A.Congressional Newsletter, for the Union for Democratic Action
1946-1948 Editorial consultant for the National Education Association and for the U.S. Children's Bureau
1949-1962 Freelance writer, Washington, D.C.
1980, Feb. 9 Died, Oaxaca, Mexico
1870, June 25 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1888 B.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1895-1941 Ornithologist, 1895-1914; assistant biologist, 1915-1923; biologist, 1924-1928; and senior biologist, 1928-1941; United States Biological Survey, Washington, D.C.
1904-1910 Professor of zoology, Biltmore Forest School, N.C.
1914 M.S., George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
Married Mary Forrest Smith
Professor of ornithology, Pennsylvania Summer School for Teachers
1916 Ph.D., George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1919-1939 Lecturer, American School of Wildlife Protection, McGregor, Iowa
1920-1935 Professor of zoology, American University Graduate School, Washington, D.C.
1925-1927 President, Biological Society of Washington, D.C.
1931 Published with S. Prentiss Baldwin and Leonard G. Worley Measurements of Birds. Cleveland, Ohio
1938 Published The Bird Life of Louisiana. New Orleans: [T. J. Moran’s Sons]
1941-1947 Curator of ornithology, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Cleveland, Ohio
1963, Dec. 25 Died, Cleveland, Ohio
1897, Apr. 8 Born, Lawrenceburg, Ind.
1911-1915 Attended Manual Training High School, Peoria, Ill.
1915-1917 Studied at Bradley Polytechnical Institute, Peoria, Ill.
1915-1919 Employed chiefly at Avery Tractor Co., Peoria, Ill.
1918-1919 Served in U.S. Army
1919-1920 Instructor in cabinet and pattern making, Pullman Free School of Manual Training, Chicago, Ill.
1920 Architectural designer with Kruckemeyer and Strong, Cincinnati, Ohio
1921-1923 Studied at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1924-1926 Architectural designer, Maginnis and Walsh, Boston, Mass.
1926-1928 Rotch Traveling Fellowship
1929-1932 Chief of design, Century of Progress International Exposition, Chicago, Ill.
1930 Married Eloise Owings
1935 Opened architectural office of Skidmore & Owings, Chicago, Ill.
1936-1937 Director of the School of Architecture, Armour Institute, Chicago, Ill
1938 Adviser to New York's World Fair, New York, N.Y.
1962, Sept. 27 Died, Winter Haven, Fla.
1878, Mar. 13 Born, Baltimore, Md.
1896 Graduated, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1899-1904 Assistant instructor in history, Smith College, Northampton, Mass.
1904-1911 Professor of history and economics, University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.; dean of arts and sciences, 1909-1911
1911-1917 Professor of history, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.
1917-1920 Littlefield Professor of American history, Brown University, Providence, R.I.
1920-1938 Professor of American history, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1934-1942 Chairman, committee on the library, American Philosophical Society
1938-1948 Chief, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, and incumbent of Library's Chair of American History
1938-1948 Member, National Historical Publications Commission.
1947-1950 Vice president, American Philosophical Society
1948-1960 Honorary consultant in American historiography, Library of Congress
1960, Aug. 31 Died, Washington, D.C.
1892, Oct. 6 Born, New York, N.Y.
1913 A.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1915 M.A. and LL.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Admitted to New York bar
1915-1916 Accountant
1916 Counsel to Waslaw Nijinsky
1920-1933 Member, Guggenheimer, Untermyer and Marshall law firm
1933 Member, Executive Finance Committee, Democratic National Committee and Franklin D. Roosevelt's pre-convention campaign committee
1933-1937 Ambassador to Sweden
1937-1939 Ambassador to Peru
1938 Delegate, Eighth Conference of the Pan-American Union, Lima, Peru
1939-1941 Ambassador to USSR
1942-1945 Ambassador to Turkey
1945-1948 Ambassador to Czechoslovakia
1948-1950 Ambassador to Canada
1950, Mar. 28 Killed in an airplane accident
1910, Apr. 9 Born, New Britain, Conn.
1933 L.L.B., University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1938-1942 Representative, Connecticut House of Representatives
1941-1951 Municipal judge, Hartford, Conn.
1949-1953 United States representative from Connecticut
1952 Unsuccessful bid for United States Senate
1955-1961 Governor of Connecticut
1961-1962 Secretary of health, education, and welfare
1963-1981 United States senator
1998 Died, New York, N.Y.
1884, Dec. 17 Born, Bangor, Maine
1908 A.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1910-1914 Traveled and studied art in France and Spain; attended Julian Academy, Paris, France
1912 Married Dorothy Rice (divorced 1918)
1915-1917 Served with American Ambulance Corps in France during World War I
1920 Married Ivy Troutman (divorced)
1921-1922 Lived in Tunis, Tunisia
1926 First American exhibition of his paintings
1930 Returned to the United States
Married Alzira Boehm (divorced)
1944 Awarded first prize, Artists for Victory competition
1946 Married Ellen Larsen
1957 Named director of fine arts, Colby College, Waterville, Maine
1970, Mar. 8 Died, Newburyport, Mass.
1883, July 31 Born, Kiev, Russia
1902 Graduated, First Kiev Gymnasium, Kiev, Russia
Immigrated to the United States
1903 A.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1905 M.A., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1907 Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
Naturalized as American citizen
1907-1910 Special investigator, United States Immigration Commission
1910-1914 Special agent, United States Census
1914-1919 Statistician, United States Department of Agriculture
1919-1924 Assistant statistician, Federal Reserve Board
1925 Assistant director, Division of Research and Statistics, Federal Reserve Board
1926-1945 Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Federal Reserve Board
1946 Member, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.
1949 Published Monetary Management. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co.
1951 Published American Monetary Policy. New York: McGraw Hill
1953, Apr. 21 Died, Princeton, N.J.
Peter Marshall
1902, Mar. 27 Born, Coatbridge, Scotland
1927 Emigrated to United States
1931 Graduated from Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.
1931 Ordained a Presbyterian minister
1931-1933 Pastor of church in Covington, Ga.
1933-1937 Pastor, Westminster Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
1936 Married Catherine Sarah Wood
1937 Named pastor of New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C.
1947 Named chaplain of United States Senate
1949, Jan. 25 Died, Washington, D.C.
Catherine Marshall
1914, Sept. 27 Born, Johnston City, Tenn.
1936 Graduated, Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga.
Married Peter Marshall
1951 Published A Man Called Peter. New York: McGraw-Hill
1955 Film release of A Man Called Peter (motion picture)
1959 Married Leonard LeSourd
1967 Published Christy. New York: McGraw-Hill
1983, Mar. 18 Died
Peter Marshall
1902, Mar. 27 Born, Coatbridge, Scotland
1927 Emigrated to United States
1931 Graduated from Columbia Theological Seminary, Decatur, Ga.
1931 Ordained a Presbyterian minister
1931-1933 Pastor of church in Covington, Ga.
1933-1937 Pastor, Westminster Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
1936 Married Catherine Sarah Wood
1937 Named pastor of New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C.
1947 Named chaplain of United States Senate
1949, Jan. 25 Died, Washington, D.C.
Catherine Marshall
1914, Sept. 27 Born, Johnston City, Tenn.
1936 Graduated, Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga.
Married Peter Marshall
1951 Published A Man Called Peter. New York: McGraw-Hill
1955 Film release of A Man Called Peter (motion picture)
1959 Married Leonard LeSourd
1967 Published Christy. New York: McGraw-Hill
1983, Mar. 18 Died
1903, Dec. 11 Born, Ayden, N. C.
1925 Graduated, Duke University, Durham, N. C.
1926-1928 Head of circulation and acting chief of reference, Duke University Library, Durham, N.C.
1928 M.A. in English, Duke University, Durham, N.C.
1929 B.S. in library service, Columbia University, New York, N. Y.
1929-1945 Held various administrative positions, New York Public Library, New York, N.Y. (on leave of absence, 1940-1942)
1930 Married Permelia Catherine Stevens (died 1961)
1940-1942 Special appointment as director, Processing Department, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
1945 Named assistant director, Cleveland Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio
1947-1948 President, Ohio Library Association
1950-1954 Director, Cleveland Public Library, Cleveland, Ohio
1954-1955 President, American Library Association
1954 Appointed Librarian of Congress
1969 Married Betsy Perrin Fox
1974 Retired from the Library of Congress
1982, Aug. 15 Died, Washington, D.C.
1886, 18 Sept. Born, Woodbridge, N.J.
1907 Graduate in mechanical engineering, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N.J.
1907-1908 Estimator and assistant to superintendent of rolling mill, Midvale Steel Co., Philadelphia, Pa.
1907-1910 Graduate work, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1908-1911 Special apprentice, Motive Power and Car Departments, Erie Railroad Co., New York
1911-1912 Inspector of materials, Shop and Motive Power, Erie Railroad Co.
1912-1913 Engineer of Motive Power and Operation, Office of Assistant Vice President, Rock Island Lines, Chicago, Ill.
1913-1916 General foreman, Second District Shops, Rock Island Lines, Horton, Kans.
1916-1917 Research engineer, Engineering Experiment Station, Department of Railway Engineering, and instructor in Railway mechanical engineering
1917-1920 Captain, United States Army, served in organization of United States Army School of Aeronautics, Urbana, Ill.
Director, Arsenal Orders Section, Army Ordnance Department
1920 Married Clara Mortenson
1920-1933 Consulting engineer with several railway systems and industrial companies in developing labor-management cooperative programs, among them the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co. and Canadian National Railways
1933-1935 Director, Section of Labor Relations, Federal Coordinator of Transportation
1935-1948 Labor relations consultant, Tennessee Valley Authority
1936-1942 Member, National Mediation Board, chairman in 1937 and 1940
1942-1944 Director, Division of Transport Personnel, Office of Defense Transportation
1943-1944 Member, War Manpower Commission
1944 Consultant, Bonneville Power Administration, United States Maritime Commission, Alaska Railroad, and Department of Interior
Special lecturer, George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1948, 8 Dec. Died
1825, June 5 Born, Lincoln County, Georgia
1843 Graduated, University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.
1846 Received law degree, Dane Law School, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1857-1861 Member of Congress, resigned at outbreak of Civil War
1861-1965 Member, Confederate congresses; served in Confederate Cavalry
1865-1868 President, Howard College, Homewood, Ala.
1868-1881 Professor, Richmond College, Richmond, Va. (president of trustees, 1882-1886, 1890-1897)
1881 Became general agent of Peabody Education Fund
1885-1888 Declined cabinet post to become minister to Spain
1890 Became agent and director of John F. Slater Fund for the Education of Freedman
1899 Head, Southern Education Board
1902 Returned to Spain as ambassador extraordinary
1903, Feb. 12 Died, Asheville, N.C.
1899 Born, Vienna, Austria
1918-1921 Led homeless children's transport from Vienna, Austria, to the Netherlands for the Red Cross
1927 M.A., Teacher's College, Vienna, Austria
1927-1935 Training for applied psychoanalysis for teachers and social workers, Psychoanalytic Institute, Vienna, Austria
Underwent psychoanalysis with Richard Sterba
Married Hugo Knoepfmacher (died 1980)
Director of a Montessori school, Vienna, Austria
1941 Emigrated to the United States
M.S.S., Smith College School of Social Work, Northampton, Mass.
1941-1954 Senior training supervisor, Jewish Board of Guardians
1942 Published “The Use of Play in Diagnosis and Therapy in Psychiatric Case Work,”Smith College Studies in Social Work (March): 217-262
1945-1949 Consultant, Jewish Child Guidance Bureau, Newark, N.J.
1946 Published “Child Guidance Work Based on Psychoanalytic Concepts,” The Nervous Child (April): 178-198
1949 Published “The Length of Treatment in a Child Guidance Clinic,” Jewish Social Service Quarterly (December): 208-228
1950-1960 Faculty member, Postgraduate Center for Mental Health, Jewish Child Guidance Bureau, Newark, N.J.
1951-1953 Directed workshop on treatment of schizophrenic children
1953-1957 Participant, Borderline Project under Hyman Spotnitz
1954 Joined Peter Glauber in his private practice in New York, N.Y.
1955-1974 In private practice
1959-1962 Faculty member, National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis
1963 Faculty member, Boston University School of Social Work, Boston, Mass.
1974 Died, New York, N.Y.
1927, Mar. 27 Born, New York, N.Y.
1948 A.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1948-1952 Deskman, Sunday Department, New York Times
1951 Married Linda Rannells (divorced)
1952 Staff, National Democratic Committee
1952-1955 Reporter, Washington Daily News
1955-1964 Reporter, Washington Bureau, New York Times
1955 Received the Heywood Broun Award and Pulitzer Prize for national reporting
1956-1957 Nieman Fellow, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1963 Received Pulitzer Prize for national reporting
1964 Published Gideon's Trumpet. New York: Random House
Published Portrait of a Decade: The Second American Revolution. New York: Random House
1965-1972 Chief, London, England, Bureau, New York Times
1969-2001 Columnist, New York Times
1974-1989 Lecturer on law, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1983-2013 James Madison Visiting Professor, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1984 Married Margaret H. Marshall
1991 Published Make No Law: The Sullivan Case and the First Amendment. New York: Random House
2001 Received Presidential Citizens' Medal
Editor, Written into History: Pulitzer Prize Reporting of the Twentieth Century from the New York Times. New York: Henry Holt
2013, Mar. 25 Died, Cambridge, Mass.
1863 Born, New York, N.Y.
1882 Graduated, City College of New York, New York, N.Y.
1896 Became involved in the motion picture business
1897 Incorporated the George Kleine Optical Co., Chicago, Ill.
1903 Began the importation of foreign films
1906 Established film rental and selling branches in the United States and Canada
1907 Founded, with Samuel Long and Frank J. Marion, the Kalem Co., and served as first president
1910 Published Catalog of Educational Moving Pictures. Chicago: Press of Bentley, Murray
Sold his distributing exchanges to the General Film Co., served as vice president, 1910-1913, and president, 1916
1913 Imported the Italian film Quo Vadis? that became a model for future films
1916 With others formed the Kleine-Edison-Selig-Essanay Service
1917 Instituted a new film rental system
1920s Devoted much time to the development of a system for the distribution of educational films
1921 Produced the serial The Hope Diamond Mystery
1923 Moved to New York, N.Y.; became treasurer and chairman of the board of directors of Ritz-Carlton Pictures
1931, June 8 Died, New York, N.Y.
Biographical Note for Elizabeth Severn
1879, Nov. 17 Born Leota Brown, Milwaukee, Wisc.
circa 1900 Married Charles Kenneth Heywood (separated 1905)
1901 Gave birth to daughter, Margaret
1906-1907 After history of mental and emotional illness, treated for nervous breakdown by a medical doctor using "power of positive thinking"
1907 Determined to become a mental healer, she obtained a divorce, changed her name to Elizabeth Severn, and with her daughter moved to Texas
circa 1908-1912 "Metaphysician and healer," traveled in the United States, including Colorado, Nebraska, Texas, and Washington, D.C., seeing patients
1912-1914 Moved to England, started a psychotherapy practice in London
1913 Published Psycho-Therapy: Its Doctrine and Practice. London: Rider
1914-1924 Returned to the United States and established psychotherapy practice in New York City; was increasingly troubled herself and sought help from several psychiatrists, without cure
1917 Published The Psychology of Behavior. New York: Dodd, Mead
1924 Traveled to Budapest, Hungary, to undergo analysis with Sándor Ferenczi
1924-1933 Analysand of Sándor Ferenczi; traveled frequently between Europe and New York for analysis while continuing her own practices in New York City and London, England
1933 Death of Sándor Ferenczi; Severn resumed her psychotherapy practice in London, England
1933 Published The Discovery of the Self. London: Rider
1933-1939 Traveled between London, England, and New York City; gave lectures and taught courses on psychology while continuing to see patients
1939-1959 With the advent of World War II, moved permanently to New York City; continued to write, lecture, and see patients
1959, Feb. Died, New York, N.Y.
[Biographical note based in part on Christopher Fortune, "The Case of 'RN': Sándor Ferenczi's Radical Experiment in Psychoanalysis," chapter 6 of The Legacy of Sándor Ferenczi, Lewis Aron and Adrienne Harris, editors. (New Jersey: Analytic Press, 1993)]
Biographical Note for Margaret Severn
1901, Aug. 14 Born Margaret Heywood, Birmingham, Ala.
1909 First dance performance, Denver, Colo.
1912-1914 Lived in London, England, with her mother; studied dance with Eduord Espinosa
1914 Moved to New York City, ballet student of Luigi Albertieri
1916 Summer student of Ruth St. Denis and performer with the Denishawn School of Dancing, Los Angeles, Calif.
1916-1931 Professional dancer in a variety of cabarets, theater revues, and traveling vaudeville companies
1920 Performer in the Greenwich Village Follies dancing with masks made by artist Wladyslaw T. Benda.
1924-1925 While traveling on the vaudeville circuit, became intimately involved with Hungarian violinist Ota Gygi who also became her manager; had abortion in April of 1925
1926 Traveled to Budapest to visit mother; had several sessions with psychoanalyst Sándor Ferenczi; relationship with Gygi ended
1927-1928 Returned to U.S.; dancer with traveling company
1929-1932 Dancer and dance teacher, New York City; involved with a variety of productions, concerts, and recitals.
1930 Opened the Dancers' Club, New York, N.Y.
1932 Moved to Paris, France
1932 Ballet dancer with company of Bronislava Nijinska
1934 Dancer with Ida Rubinstein’s ballet company working with choreographers Michel Fokine and Kurt Jooss
1935-1937 Principle dancer, Ballet Russes de Paris; toured throughout Europe
1937 Moved from Paris to Prague, Czechoslovakia, with Vasilli [unknown surname], a Russian journalist
1938 Returned to Paris, moved to London; miscellaneous dance engagements
1939 Returned to New York City to live with her mother; continued to perform and teach dance
1971 Moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
1997, July 7 Died, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
1930, Jan. 16 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1950 A.B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
B.H.L., Jewish Theological Seminary, New York, N.Y.
1950-1951 Fulbright Fellow, Cambridge University, England
1952 B.A. (Kellett Fellow), Cambridge University England
1953-1955 Served in U.S. Army
1956 Married Midge Rosenthal Decter
1956-1958 Associate editor, Commentary
1957 M.A., Cambridge University, England
1959-1960 Editor-in-chief, Looking Glass Library
1960 Editor-in-chief, Commentary
1964 Published Doings and Undoings: The 50s and After in American Writing. New York: Farrar, Straus
1966 Edited The Commentary Reader: Two Decades of Articles and Stories. New York: Atheneum
1968 Published Making It. New York: Random House
1979 Published Breaking Ranks: A Political Memoir. New York : Harper & Row
1980 Published The Present Danger: Do We Have the Will to Reverse the Decline of American Power. New York : Simon and Schuster
1982 Published Why We Were in Vietnam. New York : Simon and Schuster
1891 Feb. 12 Born, Glens Falls, N.Y.
1912 A.B., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
1915 LL.B., Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.
1915 Admitted to New York bar
1916 Served on Mexican border as a private in 7th Regiment, New York National Guard
1917-1919 Served in American Expeditionary Forces as a second lieutenant, later captain, then major in the 306th Infantry, 77th Division
1919-1922 Practiced law, firm of Root, Buckner and Howland
1920 Married Margaret T. Winchester (died 1988)
1922-1929 Practiced law, firm of Webb, Patterson and Hadley
1929-1930 Practiced law, firm of Murray, Aldrich and Webb
1930-1939 Judge, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
1937-1949 President, Harvard Law School Association
1939-1940 Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
1940 Assistant secretary of war
1940-1945 Under secretary of war
1945-1947 Secretary of war
1947-1948 President, Association of the Bar of New York
1947-1952 Practiced law, firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb, and Tyler
1950-1951 Chairman, Long Island Rail Road Commission
1951 Chairman, American Bar Association Commission on Organized Crime
1952 Jan. 22 Died, Elizabeth, N.J.
1917, May 28 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1937 B.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1938 M.A., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1940-1942 Biology instructor, Queens College, New York, N.Y.
1941 Ph.D., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1942 Entered United States Naval Reserve
1942-1945 Lieutenant and Research Physiologist, United States Naval Air Force
1946 Married Gloria C. Gordon (divorced)
1946-1947 Associate editor, Science Illustrated
1947-1953 Associate professor of plant physiology, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.
1953-1976 Professor of plant physiology, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.; chair, Biology Department, 1965-1969
1957 With Linus Pauling, wrote and distributed to the scientific community an open letter calling for the end of aboveground nuclear weapons testing
1958 Co-founder, Greater St. Louis Citizens’ Committee for Nuclear Information; name changed to Committee for Environmental information, May 1967; ceased operations in 1977
1958-1970 Co-founder, Baby Tooth Survey, St. Louis, Mo., measured increased levels of radioactive strontium-90 in children's teeth due to aboveground nuclear weapons testing
1965-1981 Founder and director, Center for the Biology of Natural Systems, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.; moved to Queens College, Flushing, N.Y., 1981
1966 Published Science and Survival. New York: Viking
1970, Feb. Appeared on the cover of Time magazine as a spokesman for the environmental movement
1971 Published The Closing Circle: Nature, Man, and Technology. New York: Knopf
1976 Published The Poverty of Power: Energy and the Economic Crisis. New York: Random House
1976-1981 Professor of environmental science, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.
1979 Published The Politics of Energy. New York: Knopf
1980 Married Lisa Feiner
Citizens Party candidate for president
1980-circa 1982 Senior Scientist, Queens College, New York, N.Y.
1990 Published Making Peace with the Planet. New York: Pantheon
2012, Sept. 30 Died, New York, N.Y.
2014 Honored posthumously by Queens College with the renaming of the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems as the Barry Commoner Center for Health and the Environment
1894, Aug. 22 Born, Warren, Ohio
1916 B.S., and M.A. in architecture, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1917-1919 Stationed in France as camouflage officer during World War I
1920 Married Dorothy Elizabeth Griffith
1920-1923 Fellow in landscape architecture, American Academy in Rome, Rome, Italy
1923-1927 Member, landscape architecture firm of A. D. Taylor, Cleveland, Ohio
1927-1930 Landscape architect, Nicolet & Griswold, Pittsburgh, Pa.
1930 Founded landscape architecture firm of Griswold, Winters, Swain & Mullin
1934-1945 Superintendent, Bureau of Parks, Pittsburgh, Pa.
1949-1950 Resident landscape architect, American Academy in Rome, Rome, Italy
1956-1958 Senior research fellow, Dumbarton Oaks Project, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1961 Published Opportunities in Landscape Architecture. New York: Vocational Guidance Manuals
1978 Published with Frederick Doveton Nichols Thomas Jefferson Landscape Architect. Charlottesville. University Press of Virginia
1981 Died
Born in Washington, D.C., March 1, 1856, Philip Lee Phillips was raised in New Orleans and Georgia before returning with his family to Washington in 1866. His father, Philip Phillips (1807-1884), served in the House of Representatives from South Carolina before the Civil War and practiced law there afterwards, including before the Supreme Court as a prominent local attorney. Phillip Lee Phillips entered Columbia College Law School in 1874, but left school a year later for a position on the staff of the Library of Congress. In 1879 he was listed as an official cataloger. Prior to that, his salary had been paid without his knowledge by his father. He soon developed an expertise in cartography, leading to an appointment in 1897 as superintendent of the Hall of Maps and Charts in the new Library of Congress building and in 1906 as chief of the Maps and Charts Division. In 1899 Phillips married Imogen D. Hutchins. He produced numerous bibliographies and atlases, including the first lists of maps and atlases in the Library of Congress, where he was employed at the time of his death on January 4, 1924. Among his principal works were A List of Geographical Atlases in the Library of Congress (4 vols., 1909-1920) and Lists of Maps of America in the Library of Congress (1901).
1903, Aug. 29 Born, New York, N.Y.
1920 Traveled to Newfoundland
1925 Explored Unknown River region of Labrador
1926 B.A., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1927 Filmed Great Artic Seal Hunt (released 1928)
1928 Elected member of Royal Geographic Society and Explorer's Club
1929 Filmed newsreel footage of Mexican Revolution
1930 Began to film, as producer, The Viking (released posthumously 1931)
1931, Mar. 15 Killed in shipboard explosion off the coast of Labrador
1913, Feb. 4 Born, Tuskegee, Ala.
1914 Moved to Pine Level, Ala.
1924-1929 Attended the Montgomery Industrial School, Montgomery, Ala.
1932 Married Raymond A. Parks (died 1977)
1933 Received high school degree
1943 Selected as secretary, NAACP Montgomery, Ala., branch
1949 Became an advisor to the Youth Council of the NAACP Montgomery, Ala., branch
1955 Attended a workshop at the Highlander Folk School, Monteagle, Tenn., in August
Arrested on December 1 and charged with violating Montgomery, Ala., segregation laws by refusing to give up her bus seat to a white passenger
Participated in organizing a boycott of the Montgomery bus system
1956 Lost her job in January as an assistant tailor at the Montgomery Fair department store, Montgomery, Ala.
Arrested along with other boycott organizers for violating anti-boycott laws
1957 Moved to Detroit, Mich.
Participated in the Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom
1957-1958 Hostess, Holly Tree Inn, Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va.
1958 Returned to Detroit, Mich.
1963 Participated in the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom
1965 Participated in the Selma-to-Montgomery March
1965-1988 Worked in Congressman John Conyers's district office in Detroit, Mich.
1979 Awarded the NAACP Spingarn Medal
1987 Founded the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development
1992 Published with Jim Haskins Rosa Parks: My Story. New York: Dial Books
1994 Published with Gregory J. Reed Quiet Strength: The Faith, the Hope, the Heart of a Woman Who Changed a Nation. Grand Rapids, Mich.: Zondervan Publishing House
1996 Awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom
Published with Gregory J. Reed Dear Mrs. Parks: A Dialogue with Today's Youth. New York: Lee and Low Books
1999 Awarded the Congressional Gold Medal
2005, Oct. 24 Died, Detroit, Mich.; lay in honor in the United States Capitol Rotunda
1903, Apr. 9 Born, Woodbind, N.J.
1924 B.S., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1924 Married Elizabeth Notkin
1927 M.S., Sc.D., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1927-1930 Fellow, National Research Council
1930-1931 Instructor of biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1931-1938 Assistant professor of biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1936 Published The Eggs of Mammals. New York: Macmillan Co.
1937-1938 Visiting investigator, Cambridge University, Cambridge, England
1938-1945 Visiting professor of experimental zoology, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
1939-1941 Guggenheim Fellow
1944 Established with Hudson Hoagland the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, Shrewsburg, Mass.
1944-1956 Director of laboratories, Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, Shrewsburg, Mass.
1946-1950 Research professor of physiology, Tufts Medical School, Boston, Mass.
1950-1967 Research professor of biology, Boston University, Boston, Mass.
1956-1960 Chairman, Endocrinology Panel, Cancer Chemotherapy National Service Center, National Institutes of Health, Washington, D.C.
1956-1967 Research director, Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology
1960 Received Albert D. Lasker Award
1965 Published The Control of Fertility. New York: Academic Press
1967 Received American Medical Association Scientific Achievement Award
1967, Aug. 22 Died, Boston, Mass.
1910 NAACP undertook its first major legal case
1935 Charles H. Houston retained as special counsel to initiate legal program
1936 Thurgood Marshall named NAACP assistant special counsel
1938 Charles H. Houston resigned as special counsel; Thurgood Marshall named to replace him
1939 NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund established by NAACP board of directors
1940 Thurgood Marshall named NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund executive director
1944 Robert L. Carter appointed NAACP assistant special counsel
1948 Constance Baker Motley appointed assistant special counsel, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund
1949 Jack Greenberg appointed assistant special counsel, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund
1952 Office moved from NAACP headquarters to 107 West 43rd Street, New York City, N.Y.
1954-1955 Brown v. Board of Education decisions
1956 Interlocking board of directors abolished
Thurgood Marshall resigned as NAACP special counsel
Robert Carter resigned from Legal Defense Fund position and is named NAACP general counsel
1958 Office moved to 10 Columbus Circle, New York, N.Y.
1961 Thurgood Marshall resigned as executive director
1961-1984 Jack Greenberg, executive director
1984-1993 Julius Chambers, executive director
1993-2004 Elaine Jones, executive director
2004-2008 Ted Shaw, executive director
2008-2012 John Payton, executive director
2012- Sherrilyn Ifill, executive director
1918, Oct. 1 Born, New York, N.Y.
1936-1939 Part-time reporter, editorial writer, and night editor, Michigan Daily, student newspaper, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1939 A.B., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1939-1940 Reporter, Washington Post
1941 Reporter, Washington Bureau, New York Journal of Commerce and Commercial Bulletin, covering White House and government, Washington, D.C.
1941-1942 Head of the Far Eastern desk, Press and Radio Division, Foreign Information Service, Office of the Coordinator of Information, Washington, D.C.
1942 Married Elnora Fleurette Haynie (divorced)
Syndicate news and feature writer, Office of War Information, Bureau of Overseas Publications, Washington, D.C.
1942-1943 White House correspondent, Voice of America, Office of War Information, Washington, D.C.
1943-1945 Served in the Overseas Branch, Office of War Information, in Australia, Burma, China, India, New Guinea, Philippines, and Territory of Hawaii; chief, Psychological Warfare Team, attached to combat units and headquarters of General Joseph Warren Stilwell, China-Burma-India Theater, 1943-1944; chief of leaflet operations, Hollandia, New Guinea, Tacloban, Leyte Island, Philippines, and Manila, Philippines, attached to U.S. Sixth Army, Psychological Warfare Branch, Southwest Pacific Area, and to the headquarters of General Douglas MacArthur, 1944-1945; attached to Central Pacific Theater, based in Honolulu, Territory of Hawaii, 1945
1945-1962 Editor, U.S. News & World Report; associate editor in Washington, D.C., writing on foreign affairs, 1945-1948; Central European editor and bureau chief, West Germany, 1948-1951; Western European editor and Paris Bureau chief, Paris, France, 1951-1962
1947 Covered Moscow Council of Foreign Ministers, Soviet Union, for U.S. News & World Report; toured Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Austria
pre-1953 Married Jane Eakin (divorced)
1962-1963 Bureau chief and commentator, Columbia Broadcasting System News, Paris, France
1963-1985 Editorial Board member, New York Times, writing about international affairs, principally about United States-European relations
1964 Published Atlantic Crisis: American Diplomacy Confronts a Resurgent Europe. New York: W. W. Norton
1986 Married Mary (Nisbet) Temple
2004, Mar. 22 Died, Washington, D.C.
1864, Dec. 27 Born, Easton, Penn.
1880-1884 Student, Lafayette College, Easton, Penn.
1888 Graduate, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.; Commissioned second lieutenant and assiged to the 3rd United States Artillery.
1891 Married Josephine Smith Cunningham (died 1904)
1894 Promoted to first lieutenant, assigned to the 5th United States Artillery
1896-1898 Attended the Artillery School at Fort Monroe, Hampton, Va.
1898 Organized and designated captain of the Astor Battery
1898-1899 Commander, Astor Battery, Spanish-American War, Philippines campaign and the capture of Manila
1899 Aide to General Arthur MacArthur; promoted to major, 33rd Volunteer Infantry, Philippine American War
1900-1901 Provincial governor and commissary of prisoners, Philippines
1901-1903 Reverted to regular army captain; commanded the 19th Battery, Field Artillery, Fort Riley, Kans.
1903-1907 Member, War Department General Staff
1904 Military observer, Japanese Army, Russo-Japanese War
1907 Promoted to major
1907-1911 Member, Artillery Board; commander, 1st Battalion, 6th Field Artillery
1911-1916 Adjutant, successive appointments by the adjutant general to Fort Riley, the Department of the Missouri, the Central Department, the 2nd Division, and department headquarters in Washington, D.C.
1916 Promoted to colonel
1916-1917 Commander, 8th Field Artillery on the Mexican border
1917 Promoted to brigadier general in June and placed in command of the 1st Field Artillery Brigade, 1st Division, American Expeditionary Forces; in August, promoted to major general in the National Army and placed in command of the First army and nondivisional artillery, American Expeditionary Forces; in September, appointed to the General Staff and promoted to major general in the regular army
1918-1921 Chief of staff, United States Army. Established the leading role of the chief of staff in the army hierarchy; directed the buildup of American forces in Europe; centralized control of supplies; created the Air Service, Tank Corps, and Chemical Warfare Service; and oversaw demobilization at the end of World War I
1921 Retired as a major general in November
1923 Married Cora V. McEntee (died 1964)
1930 Advanced to general on the retired list
1955, Apr. 13 Died, Washington, D.C.
Dr. Kaj Aage Strand specialized in positional astronomy, photographic astrometry, and astrometric instrumentation research. His work focused on the determination of stellar parallaxes, proper motions of stars, and use of visual and photographic observation of nearby double stars with an interest in the detection of unseen companion stars in binary systems and extrasolar planets. He is noted for proposing, designing, and supervising the construction of the United States Naval Observatory's pioneering 61-Inch Astrometric Reflector in Flagstaff, Arizona, the first telescope engineered specifically for astrometric purposes. The 61-Inch reflector surpassed refractors in faint object measurement and advanced parallax measurement accuracy from hundredths of an arcsecond to near milliarcseconds. He also designed and supervised the construction of the Strand Automatic Measuring Machine (SAMM) for precision measurement of the plate material being produced with the new astrometric reflector. Strand garnered publicity in 1943 after announcing evidence of a planetary companion in the binary system 61 Cygni AB, which reopened broad public debate on planetary bodies outside of the solar system.
While serving in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II, Strand flew and was chief navigator during B-29 test flights. He was in charge of testing new types of navigation equipment and developing new types of instrumentation for obtaining accurate ballistic data in aerial bombing. He participated in the operational training of special air crews, including the crew of the Enola Gay, first to drop the atomic bomb.
Strand served as International Astronomical Union President of Commissions 24 (Photographic Astrometry) and 26 (Double Stars). He sat on advisory panels for the National Science Foundation, Office of Naval Research, National Research Council, National Bureau of Standards, and Senior Fulbright-Hays Program Committee. He was awarded fellowships from the Danish Rask-Oersted Foundation (1938-1940) and the John Guggenheim Foundation (1946). Samples of Strand's awards include the Distinguished Service Medal, United States Army Air Forces (1946) and the Knight, 1st Class, Danish Royal Order of Dannebrog (1977). A minor planet, 3236 Strand = 1982 BH1 was named in his honor and the 61-Inch Reflector was rededicated and renamed the Kaj Strand Astrometric Telescope in 1997.
1907, Feb. 27 Born, Hellerup, Denmark
1926 B.A., University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
1931 M.Sc., University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
1931-1933 Geodesist, Royal Geodetic Institute, Copenhagen, Denmark
1933-1938 Assistant to Director Ejnar Hertzsprung, University Observatory, Leiden, Netherlands
1938 Ph.D., University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
1938-1942 Research associate in astronomy, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.
1942-1945 Chief, Navigation Department, Proof Division, Air Force Proving Ground Command, Eglin Field, Fla.
1945-1946 Research astronomer, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.
1946-1947 Associate professor of astronomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1947-1958 Professor of astronomy; Chairman, Astronomy Department; and director of the Dearborn Observatory, Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill.
1958-1963 Director, Astrometry and Astrophysics Division, U.S. Naval Observatory, Washington D.C.
1963-1977 Scientific director, U.S. Naval Observatory, Washington, D.C.
1977-1979 Part-time consultant, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
1981-1985 Part-time consultant, Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Lexington, Mass.
2000, Oct. 31 Died, Washington, D.C.
Louis Nizer, born February 6, 1902, in London, England, was a lawyer and author noted for advising important people in politics, business, and entertainment, and for defending unpopular causes and individuals. He successfully represented Quentin Reynolds in his libel suit against columnist Westbook Pegler and broadcaster John Henry Faulk in a suit hailed as a critical legal victory against blacklisting. Nizer also wrote several books, including the best-selling My Life In Court (Garden City, N.Y., 1961), and in 1964, he authored the foreword to the Warren Commission report that investigated the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
Nizer graduated from Columbia University Law School and in 1924 established with Louis Phillips the legal partnership that became Phillips, Nizer, Benjamin, Krim & Ballon. Prominent clients included Johnny Carson, Charlie Chaplin, Salvador Dali, Mae West, Julius Erving, and Spyros P. Skouros. Nizer died in New York City, November 10, 1994.
1915, Oct. 10 Born, Chattanooga, Tenn.
1933 Graduated, Chattanooga High School, Chattanooga, Tenn.
1940 Enlisted in United States Army, and assigned to medical detachment hospital, Fort Oglethorpe, Ga.
1942 Graduated, Officer Candidate School, Fort Benning, Ga.
Assigned to 371st Infantry Regiment, 92nd Infantry Division, Camp Robinson, Ark.
1943 Operations and training staff officer, 92nd Infantry Division, Fort Huachuca, Ariz.
Married Alta Ross
1944-1945 Served as rifle company commander and heavy weapons company commander, 92nd Infantry Division, North Apennines and Po Valley campaigns, Italy
1945 Promoted to captain
Awarded Bronze Star Medal, Italy
1946 Promoted to major
1948 S-3 (Operations), 11th Infantry Regiment, 5th Infantry Division, Fort Jackson, S.C.
1950-1953 Assigned to 350th Infantry Regiment, Austria
1953-1955 Army advisor, National Guard, N.C.
1956-1957 Military advisor, Military Assistance Advisory Group, Taiwan
1958-1960 S-4 (Logistics), Combat Development Experimentation Command, 1st Brigade, 10th Infantry, Fort Ord, Calif.
1961-1962 Military advisor, Joint United States Military Advisory Group, Thailand
1962 Recalled from Thailand to assist in re-activation of 1st Armored Division, Fort Hood, Tex.
1963 Retired from U.S. Army as lieutenant colonel
2006, Mar. 12 Died, Cleveland, Tenn.
1911, Nov. 6 Born, Sherborn, Mass.
1932 Married Fairfield Porter (died 1975)
1934-1938 Published poems in Poetry
1949 Moved to Southampton, N.Y.
1953 Starred in Rudy Burckhardt's film A Day in the Life of a Cleaning Woman
1954 Converted to Catholicism
1979-2000 Published poems in Commonweal
1994 Published An All Together Different Language, Poems 1938-1994. Cambridge, Mass.: Zoland Books
Nominated for National Book Award for Poetry
2006 Published Living Things: Collected Poems. Hanover, N.H.: Zoland Books
2011, Oct. 10 Died, Hampton Bays, N.Y.
1882, July 2 Born, Saint-Cloud, France
1907 Married Prince George of Greece and Denmark (died 1957)
1924 Read Introduction à la psychanalyse. (Paris: 1922), Simon Jankélévitch's translation of Sigmund Freud's introductory lectures on psychoanalysis
Published under the pseudonym A. E. Narjani "Considérations sur les causes anatomiques de la frigidité chez la femme," Bruxelles Médical. (Apr. 27)
1925-1927 Analyzed by Sigmund Freud
1926 Founder, Société Psychanalytique de Paris, Paris, France
1927 Founder, Revue française de psychanalyse
1928 Began treating analysands
1929 Provided financial assistance to the nearly bankrupt Internationaler Psychoanalytischer Verlag
1933 Published Edgar Poe. Paris: Denoël et Steele
1934 Founder, Institute de Psychanalyse, Paris, France
1937 Purchased from Reinhold Stahl Sigmund Freud's letters to Wilhelm Fliess
Published Topsy, Chow-Chow au poil d'or. Paris: Denoël et Steele
1938 Facilitated the immigration of Sigmund Freud and his family to London, England
1939-1951 Published Cinq cahiers écrits par une petite fille entre sept ans et demi et dix ans et leurs commentaires. Paris: Printed for the author. 4 vols.
1940 Translated and published Métapsychologie, by Sigmund Freud. Paris: Gallimard
1941-1944 Spent war years in Cape Town, South Africa
1946 Published Mythes de guerre. London: Imago Publishing Co.
1950 Secured legal representation for Margaret Williams, a child analyst sued by the Odre des Médecins for practicing medicine without a medical degree
1951 Published De la sexualité de la femme. Paris: Presses universitaires de France
1952 Elected vice president, International Psycho-Analytical Association
1953 Published A la mémoire des disparus. Paris: Printed for the author
1962, Sept.21 Died, Saint-Tropez, France
1815 Founded by William Tudor and Nathan Hale, Boston, Mass.
1820 Published on a quarterly schedule
1864-1868 Charles Eliot North and James Russell Lowell, co-editors
1870-1875 Henry Adams, editor
1876-1889 Allen Thorndike Rice, owner and editor
1878 Editorial office moved to New York, N.Y.
1889-1896 Lloyd Stephens Bryce, owner and editor
1899-1926 George Harvey, owner and editor
1940 Production suspended
1964 Production revived by Robert Dana, Cornell College, Mount Vernon, Iowa
1968 Purchased by the University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls, Iowa
1968-2000 Robley Wilson, editor
2000 Vince Gotera and Grant Tracey, co-editors
Columbus Delano
1809, June 4 Born, Shoreham, Vt.
1817 Moved with parents to Mount Vernon, Ohio
1831 Admitted to the bar and commenced law practice, Mount Vernon, Ohio
1845-1847 U. S. representative from Ohio
1861 State commissary general of Ohio
1865-1867 U.S. representative from Ohio
1868-1869 Commissioner of internal revenue
1870-1875 Secretary of the interior
1896, Oct. 23 Died, Mount Vernon, Ohio
Columbus Delano
1809, June 4 Born, Shoreham, Vt.
1817 Moved with parents to Mount Vernon, Ohio
1831 Admitted to the bar and commenced law practice, Mount Vernon, Ohio
1845-1847 U. S. representative from Ohio
1861 State commissary general of Ohio
1865-1867 U.S. representative from Ohio
1868-1869 Commissioner of internal revenue
1870-1875 Secretary of the interior
1896, Oct. 23 Died, Mount Vernon, Ohio
1842, Nov. 15 Born, Lowville, N.Y.
1865 Admitted to New York bar
1878-1880 Editor and then owner and publisher of Binghamton Republic
1889 Published The Children and Other Verses. New York: Cassell & Co.
1897-1906 U.S. consul general, Constantinople, Turkey
1901-1907 Diplomatic agent to Bulgaria
1903 Negotiated release of American missionary kidnapped in Macedonia, Ellen Maria Stone
1924, July 3 Died, Binghamton, N.Y.
1922, Oct. 6 Born, Charleston, W.V.
1943 B.A., West Virginia State College, Institute, W.V.
1945 Married Grace Banks (died 2011)
1945 Pastor, First Baptist Church, South Orange, N.J.
1947 M.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1950 Pastor, Zion Baptist Church, Philadelphia, Pa.
1962 Founder, Zion Non-Profit Charitable Trust, Philadelphia, Pa.
1964 Founder, Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America, Philadelphia, Pa.
1969 Founder, OIC International, Philadelphia, Pa.
1971 Board member, General Motors Corp.
1977 Created Sullivan Principles promoting corporate social responsibility
1988 Retired, Zion Baptist Church, Philadelphia, Pa.
1988 Founder, International Foundation for Education and Self Help, Phoenix, Ariz.
1991 Awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
1998 Published Moving Mountains: The Principles and Purposes of Leon Sullivan. Valley Forge, Pa.: Judson Press
1999 Received Eleanor Roosevelt Award for Human Rights
2001, Apr. 24 Died, Scottsdale, Ariz.
The Elections Research Center was established in 1955 as a branch of the Governmental Affairs Institute, a nonprofit research and survey organization founded in 1950. After receiving a grant from the Stern Family Fund, then Chairman of the Board, Edward Litchfield, invited noted political scientist, Richard M. Scammon, to head the Institute’s newly formed Elections Office, later known as the Elections Research Center. The Elections Research Center operated under Scammon’s direction for thirty years, collecting elections data from each state at the municipal, state, and federal level and publishing several comprehensive analyses of American voting trends and statistics. Using the data collected, the Center published its biennial series, America Votes, first released in 1956 and thereafter each general election, which systematically reported voting returns by state. Other works edited by Scammon, with assistance from his collaborator, Alice B. McGillivray, under the auspices of the Elections Research Center include Southern Primaries 58 (1959), America at the Polls: A Handbook of American Presidential and Election Statistics, 1920-1964 (1965), and America at the Polls: A Handbook of American Presidential and Election Statistics, 1968-1984 (1988). The Elections Research Center closed in 1995.
Richard Lathers was born in Georgetown, South Carolina, in 1820. He married Abby Thurston Pitman in 1846, and two years later moved to New York. Successful as a banker and merchant, Lathers became director, in 1855, of the New York & Erie Railroad, and subsequently president of the Great Western Insurance Company. He died in New York City, September 17, 1903.
1784, July 21 Born, Baltimore, Md.
1799 Appointed midshipman
1803 Duty in USF Constitution, Mediterranean Squadron
1804 Duty in USS Nautilus, Mediterranean Squadron
1812 Commanded USS Erie
1814 Commanded USS Jefferson
1815 Promoted to captain
Commanded USS Erie, Mediterranean Squadron
1820 Commanded USF Constellation, Pacific Squadron
1822 Married Cornelia L. Livingston
1827 Commanded West India Squadron
1834 Commandant, New York Navy Yard
1840 Commanded Brazil Squadron
1842 Commandant, Baltimore Naval Station
1848, Feb. 4 Died, Baltimore, Md.
I. M. Pei
1917, Apr. 26 Born Ieoh Ming Pei, Canton (Guangzhou), China
1935 Traveled to the United States to study architecture
1940 B.S. in architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1942 Married Eileen Loo (died 2014)
1943-1945 Operation analyst, National Defense Research Committee
1945-1948 Assistant professor, Harvard University Graduate School of Design, Cambridge, Mass.
1946 M.S. in architecture, Harvard University Graduate School of Design, Cambridge, Mass.
1948-1955 Director of architecture, Webb & Knapp, Inc.
1954 Became naturalized citizen of the United States
1955-1990 Founded I. M. Pei & Associates (later I. M. Pei & Partners in 1966, and Pei Cobb Freed & Partners in 1989)
1964 Elected fellow, American Institute of Architects
1966-1970 Served on the National Council on the Humanities, appointed by Lyndon B. Johnson
1967 Elected member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences
1975 Elected member, American Academy of Arts and Letters
1975 Elected member, Royal Institute of British Architects
1979 Awarded Gold Medal, American Institute of Architects
1980 Appointed member, National Council on the Arts by Jimmy Carter
1981 Elected member, American Philosophical Society
1981-1984 Member, National Council on the Arts
1983 Awarded Pritzker Architecture Prize
1986 Awarded Medal of Liberty by Ronald Reagan
1988 Awarded National Medal of Art
1990 Retired from Pei Freed Cobb & Partners
1993 Awarded Medal of Freedom by George H. W. Bush
2000 Received Living Legend Award from the Library of Congress
2003 Awarded National Design Award for Lifetime Achievement, Smithsonian Institution, Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum
2019, May 16 Died, New York, N.Y.
Chronology of the Work of I. M. Pei
1952-1956 Mile High Center, Denver, Colo.
1954-1963 Luce Memorial Chapel, T’ai-chung shih, Taiwain
1957-1962 Kips Bay Plaza, New York, N.Y.
1957-1964 Society Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.
1959-1964 Cecil and Ida Green Center for Earth Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1960-1961 Government Center Urban Renewal Plan, Boston, Mass.
1960-1964 Southwest Washington urban renewal plan, Washington, D.C.
1960-1970 National Airlines Terminal, John F. Kennedy International Airport, New York, N.Y.
1961-1964 Everson Museum of Art, Syracuse, N.Y.
1961-1964 Syracuse University S. I. Newhouse Communications Center, Syracuse, N.Y.
1961-1966 University Plaza, New York University, New York, N.Y.
1961-1967 National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colo.
1962-1970 Air traffic control towers, various U.S. airports
1963-1967 New College of Florida dormitories, student union, and academic center, Sarasota, Fla.
1963-1971 Wilmington Tower, Wilmington, Del.
1965-1979 John F. Kennedy Library, Boston, Mass.
1966-1968 Des Moines Art Center addition, Des Moines, Iowa
1966-1969 Bedford-Stuyvesant Superblock, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1966-1971 Cleo Rogers Memorial Library, Columbus, Ind.
1966-1977 Dallas City Hall, Dallas, Tex.
1967-1973 Commerce Court, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Toronto, Canada
1968-1970 Columbia University Comprehensive Master Plan, New York, N.Y.
1968-1972 Paul Mellon Center for the Arts, Choate Rosemary Hall, Wallingford, Conn.
1968-1973 Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1968-1978 East Building of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
1970-1976 Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. Centre, Singapore
1972-1976 Ralph Landau Chemical Engineering Building, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1973-1986 Raffles City, Singapore
1974-1983 Johnson & Johnson World Headquarters, New Brunswick, N.J.
1977-1981 Museum of Fine Arts West Wing, Boston, Mass.
1977-1982 Sunning Plaza, Hong Kong
1977-1984 International Business Machines Corp. Corporate Office Building, Purchase, N.Y.
1978-1982 Texas Commerce Tower and United Energy Plaza, Houston, Tex.
1978-1984 Wiesner Building/Center for Arts and Media Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1979-1982 Fragrant Hill Hotel, Beijing, China
1979-1986 Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and Plaza, New York, N.Y.
1980-1987 Bank of America Tower at International Plaza, Miami, Fla.
1981-1990 Gateway Towers, Singapore
1981-1992 Guggenheim Pavilion, Mount Sinai Medical Center expansion and modernization, New York, N.Y.
1982-1989 Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, Dallas, Tex.
1982-1989 Bank of China Tower, Hong Kong
1983-1989 International Business Machines Corp. Office Building Complex, Somers, N.Y.
1983-1993 Musée du Louvre (Grand Louvre), Paris, France
1986-1989 Choate Rosemary Hall Science Center, Wallingford, Conn.
1987-1995 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Cleveland, Ohio
1988-1990 Shinji Shumeikai Bell Tower, Shiga-ken, Japan
1989-1993 Four Seasons Hotel, New York, N.Y.
1988-1992 Kirklin Clinic, Birmingham, Ala.
1990-2007 Musée d'Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean, Luxembourg, Luxembourg
1991-1997 Miho Museum, Shiga-ken, Japan
1993-1999 Buck Institute for Age Research, Marin County, Calif.
1994-2001 Bank of China Head Office, Beijing, China
1995-2000 Republic of Korea Permanent Mission to the United Nations, New York, N.Y.
1995-2003 Deutsches Historisches Museum, Berlin, Germany
1996-2001 Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, Calif.
1999-2003 Oare Pavilion, Wiltshire, England
2000-2008 Museum of Islamic Art, Dawḥah, Qatar
2002-2005 Macau Science Center, Macau, China
2006-2009 Miho Institute of Aesthetics chapel, Shiga-ken, Japan
I. M. Pei
1917, Apr. 26 Born Ieoh Ming Pei, Canton (Guangzhou), China
1935 Traveled to the United States to study architecture
1940 B.S. in architecture, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1942 Married Eileen Loo (died 2014)
1943-1945 Operation analyst, National Defense Research Committee
1945-1948 Assistant professor, Harvard University Graduate School of Design, Cambridge, Mass.
1946 M.S. in architecture, Harvard University Graduate School of Design, Cambridge, Mass.
1948-1955 Director of architecture, Webb & Knapp, Inc.
1954 Became naturalized citizen of the United States
1955-1990 Founded I. M. Pei & Associates (later I. M. Pei & Partners in 1966, and Pei Cobb Freed & Partners in 1989)
1964 Elected fellow, American Institute of Architects
1966-1970 Served on the National Council on the Humanities, appointed by Lyndon B. Johnson
1967 Elected member, American Academy of Arts and Sciences
1975 Elected member, American Academy of Arts and Letters
1975 Elected member, Royal Institute of British Architects
1979 Awarded Gold Medal, American Institute of Architects
1980 Appointed member, National Council on the Arts by Jimmy Carter
1981 Elected member, American Philosophical Society
1981-1984 Member, National Council on the Arts
1983 Awarded Pritzker Architecture Prize
1986 Awarded Medal of Liberty by Ronald Reagan
1988 Awarded National Medal of Art
1990 Retired from Pei Freed Cobb & Partners
1993 Awarded Medal of Freedom by George H. W. Bush
2000 Received Living Legend Award from the Library of Congress
2003 Awarded National Design Award for Lifetime Achievement, Smithsonian Institution, Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum
2019, May 16 Died, New York, N.Y.
Chronology of the Work of I. M. Pei
1952-1956 Mile High Center, Denver, Colo.
1954-1963 Luce Memorial Chapel, T’ai-chung shih, Taiwain
1957-1962 Kips Bay Plaza, New York, N.Y.
1957-1964 Society Hill, Philadelphia, Pa.
1959-1964 Cecil and Ida Green Center for Earth Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1960-1961 Government Center Urban Renewal Plan, Boston, Mass.
1960-1964 Southwest Washington urban renewal plan, Washington, D.C.
1960-1970 National Airlines Terminal, John F. Kennedy International Airport, New York, N.Y.
1961-1964 Everson Museum of Art, Syracuse, N.Y.
1961-1964 Syracuse University S. I. Newhouse Communications Center, Syracuse, N.Y.
1961-1966 University Plaza, New York University, New York, N.Y.
1961-1967 National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, Colo.
1962-1970 Air traffic control towers, various U.S. airports
1963-1967 New College of Florida dormitories, student union, and academic center, Sarasota, Fla.
1963-1971 Wilmington Tower, Wilmington, Del.
1965-1979 John F. Kennedy Library, Boston, Mass.
1966-1968 Des Moines Art Center addition, Des Moines, Iowa
1966-1969 Bedford-Stuyvesant Superblock, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1966-1971 Cleo Rogers Memorial Library, Columbus, Ind.
1966-1977 Dallas City Hall, Dallas, Tex.
1967-1973 Commerce Court, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Toronto, Canada
1968-1970 Columbia University Comprehensive Master Plan, New York, N.Y.
1968-1972 Paul Mellon Center for the Arts, Choate Rosemary Hall, Wallingford, Conn.
1968-1973 Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1968-1978 East Building of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.
1970-1976 Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. Centre, Singapore
1972-1976 Ralph Landau Chemical Engineering Building, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1973-1986 Raffles City, Singapore
1974-1983 Johnson & Johnson World Headquarters, New Brunswick, N.J.
1977-1981 Museum of Fine Arts West Wing, Boston, Mass.
1977-1982 Sunning Plaza, Hong Kong
1977-1984 International Business Machines Corp. Corporate Office Building, Purchase, N.Y.
1978-1982 Texas Commerce Tower and United Energy Plaza, Houston, Tex.
1978-1984 Wiesner Building/Center for Arts and Media Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1979-1982 Fragrant Hill Hotel, Beijing, China
1979-1986 Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and Plaza, New York, N.Y.
1980-1987 Bank of America Tower at International Plaza, Miami, Fla.
1981-1990 Gateway Towers, Singapore
1981-1992 Guggenheim Pavilion, Mount Sinai Medical Center expansion and modernization, New York, N.Y.
1982-1989 Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, Dallas, Tex.
1982-1989 Bank of China Tower, Hong Kong
1983-1989 International Business Machines Corp. Office Building Complex, Somers, N.Y.
1983-1993 Musée du Louvre (Grand Louvre), Paris, France
1986-1989 Choate Rosemary Hall Science Center, Wallingford, Conn.
1987-1995 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum, Cleveland, Ohio
1988-1990 Shinji Shumeikai Bell Tower, Shiga-ken, Japan
1989-1993 Four Seasons Hotel, New York, N.Y.
1988-1992 Kirklin Clinic, Birmingham, Ala.
1990-2007 Musée d'Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean, Luxembourg, Luxembourg
1991-1997 Miho Museum, Shiga-ken, Japan
1993-1999 Buck Institute for Age Research, Marin County, Calif.
1994-2001 Bank of China Head Office, Beijing, China
1995-2000 Republic of Korea Permanent Mission to the United Nations, New York, N.Y.
1995-2003 Deutsches Historisches Museum, Berlin, Germany
1996-2001 Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, Calif.
1999-2003 Oare Pavilion, Wiltshire, England
2000-2008 Museum of Islamic Art, Dawḥah, Qatar
2002-2005 Macau Science Center, Macau, China
2006-2009 Miho Institute of Aesthetics chapel, Shiga-ken, Japan
The 92nd Infantry Division and the 93rd Infantry Division were racially segregated units of the United States Army during World War I and World War II. Nicknamed the "Buffalo Soldier Division," the 92nd was the only African American division in World War II to see combat in Europe as part of the Fifth Army. The 93rd Division, known as the "Blue Helmet" Division, acquired that sobriquet when the division fought in France in World War I. The 93rd Division served in combat in the Pacific Theater during World War II.
1922, Dec. 13 Born, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
1946 M. D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1947-1949 Medical officer, United States Army, Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Tex.; Washington, D.C.; and Panama
1951 Began analysis with M. Esther Harding, N.Y.
1962 Founding member, C. G. Jung Institute of New York and C. G. Jung Foundation of New York, N.Y.
1968-1979 President, C. G. Jung Institute of New York
1972 Published Ego and Archetype: Individuation and the Religious Function of the Psyche. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons
1978 Published Melville's Moby-Dick: A Jungian Commentary: An American Nekyia. New York: New Directions Publishing
1979-circa 1998 Analyst, faculty member, and supervisor, C. G. Jung Institute of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Calif.
1985 Published Anatomy of the Psyche: Alchemical Symbolism in Psychotherapy. La Salle, Ill.: Open Court Publishing Co.
1987 Published Christian Archetype: A Jungian Commentary on the Life of Christ. Toronto: Inner City Books
1990 Published Goethe's Faust: Notes for a Jungian Commentary. Toronto: Inner City Books
Published Living Psyche: A Jungian Analysis in Pictures. Wilmette, Ill.: Chiron Publications
1994 Published Transformation of Libido: A Seminar on C. G. Jung's Symbols of Transformation. Los Angeles: C. G. Jung Bookstore
1996 Published New God-Image: A Study of Jung's Key Letters Concerning the Evolution of the Western God-Image. Wilmette, Ill.: Chiron Publications
1998, July 17 Died, Los Angeles, Calif.
1999 Publication of Archetype of the Apocalypse: A Jungian Study of the Book of Revelation. Chicago: Open Court Publishing Co.
1922, Dec. 3 Born, Vienna, Austria
1940 Immigrated to the United States
1944 Graduated, New York University, New York, N.Y.
1945-1951 Foreign correspondent, Time magazine
1951-1966 Senior editor, Time magazine
1953 Married Beverly Suser (died 1981)
1966-1968 Assistant managing editor, Time magazine
1968-1977 Managing editor, Time magazine
1977 Corporate editor, Time, inc.
1978-1987 Editor in chief, Time, inc.
1987 Married Louise Melhado
1987-1990 United States ambassador to Austria
1997 Published One Man's America. New York: Doubleday
1999 Published Twilight. New York: Knopf
2004 Published A Saint, More or Less. New York: Random House
2005, Feb. 26 Died, New York, N.Y.
1918, Jan. 12 Born, New York, N.Y.
1940 BA, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1940-1941 Copy boy, New York Times
1941-1945 United States Naval Reserve, entered as apprentice seaman, exited as Lieutenant Commander
1945-1962 Reporter and correspondent, New York Times
1950 Married Mary Barrett
1958 George Polk Award, special award for coverage of the International Geophysical Year
1962-1964 Science news editor, New York Times
1964-1987 Science editor, New York Times
1965 National Book Award for Non-Fiction, We Are Not Alone: The Search for Intelligent Life on Other Worlds
1973 Charles P. Daly Medal, American Geographical Society
1978 National Science Foundation Distinguished Public Service Award
1980 Public Welfare Medal, National Academy of Sciences
1996, May 19 Died, Riverside, Conn.
1920 Mar. 20 Born Pamela Beryl Digby, Farnborough, Hampshire, England
1934-1936 Attended Downham School, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, England
1936-1938 Studied in Paris, France
1939 Married Randolph S. Churchill (divorced 1946)
1941-1943 Worked at the Office of Ministry of Supply, London, England
1943-1945 Secretary, Churchill Club, London, England
1946-1948 Reporter, London Evening Standard
1948-1959 Resided in Paris, France
1959 Moved to the United States
1960 Married Leland Hayward (died 1971)
1962-1966 Owner, Jansen Boutique, New York, N.Y.
1971 Married W. Averell Harriman (died 1986)
Became a United States citizen
1980-1990 Founder and chair, Democrats for the 80's (name changed to Democrats for the 90's in 1989)
1982-1993 Honorary trustee, Menninger Foundation
Member, Trustees' Council, National Gallery of Art
Founding board member, National Wildflower Research Center, Austin, Tex.
Trustee, Rockefeller University, New York, N.Y.
1984-1990 Chairman of the board, Harriman Communications Center, Congressional Campaign Coordinating Committee, Washington, D.C.
1985-1986 Member, Commission on National Elections
1985-1989 Member, Board of Visitors, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.
1985-1993 Member, Atlantic Council of the United States (vice chair, 1989 1993)
1987 Honorary degree, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1987-1993 Member, Commission on Presidential Debates
1988-1993 Trustee and executive committee member, Brookings Institution
1993-1997 United States ambassador to France
1997, Feb. 5 Died, Paris, France
1941, Aug. 12 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1963 B.S. in English literature and business administration, Regis University, Denver, Colo.
1964 M.B.A., Wharton School of Commerce and Finance, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.
1964 Co-founder and member, Philadelphia Society; president, 1982-1983, 2013-2014
1965 Awarded Richard M. Weaver Fellowship by Intercollegiate Society of Individualists (later Intercollegiate Studies Institute) to attend the London School of Economics and Political Science, London, England
1965-1968 Pursued graduate studies in economics, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.
1966 Public Affairs Fellow, Center for Strategic Studies, Washington, D.C., researching and writing about trade policy with the Soviet Union; fellowship transferred to Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, 1967
1967-1968 Public Affairs Fellow, Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., working on staff of United States Representative Melvin R. Laird, and further delegated to staff of Republican Task Force on East-West Trade
1968 Published with Samuel F. Clabaugh Trading with the Communists. Washington, D.C.: Center for Strategic Studies
1968-1969 Research analyst, House Republican Conference, headed by Melvin R. Laird
1969 Married Linda Claire Leventhal
1969-1970 Confidential assistant to the special assistant of Secretary of Defense Melvin R. Laird, Department of Defense
1970-1974 Staff member, United States Representative Philip M. Crane; chief of staff, 1970-1973; campaign manager, Crane for Congress, 1972; special assistant 1973-1974
1972 Member, Mont Pelerin Society; treasurer, 1978-1996, 1999-?; president, 1996-1998; senior vice president, 1998-2000
1973 Founder with Paul M. Weyrich, Heritage Foundation; founding trustee, 1973; member, Board of Trustees, 1974-1977, 2013- ; corporate secretary, 1975-1977; executive vice president, 1977; president, 1977-2013; interim president, 2017
1973-1974 President and chief operating officer, Schuchman Foundation Center for the Public Interest
1974-1976 Member, United States delegation to the meetings of the International Monetary Fund/World Bank meetings
1974-1977 Executive director, Republican Study Committee, United States House of Representatives
1976 Published Congress and the New International Economic Order. Washington, D.C.: Heritage Foundation
Editor China-The Turning Point. Washington, D.C.: Council on American Affairs
1977-1986 Incorporator with William Casey and Antony Fisher and vice chairman, International Center for Economic Policy Studies, New York, N.Y.; renamed Manhattan Institute of Policy Studies, 1981
1977-2001 Publisher, Policy Review magazine, Heritage Foundation
circa 1977-1996 Chairman, Institute for European Defence & Strategic Studies, London, England
1980-1981 Member, Executive Committee of the Presidential Transition of president-elect Ronald Reagan
Chairman, Presidential Transition Task Force on Foreign Economic Assistance of president-elect Ronald Reagan
1980-? Chairman, International Development Cooperation Agency/Overseas Private Investment Corporation Transition Team of president-elect Ronald Reagan
1981 Ph.D. in political science, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland
Published Looking Back. Washington, D.C.: Heritage Foundation
Editor with Hideaki Kase U.S.-Japan Mutual Security: The Next Twenty Years. Washington, D.C.: Heritage Foundation
1981-1982 Member, New Directions Advisory Committee, United States Information Agency
1981-1983 Member, President's Commission on White House Fellows
1982 Public member (ambassador), United States delegation to the United Nations Second Special Session on Disarmament, New York, N.Y.
1982-1994 Chairman, United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy
circa 1982-1989 Consultant to White House Counselor Edwin Meese
Member, Secretary of State's UNESCO Observation Review Panel
1983 Published Conservatives Stalk the House: The Republican Study Committee. Ottawa, Ill.: Green Hill
Member, Commission on Security and Economic Assistance (Carlucci Commission on Foreign Aid)
1984 Published U.S. Foreign Policy in Asia and the Pacific. Washington, D.C.: Heritage Foundation
1985-1996 Member, National Advisory Board, Center for Education and Research in Free Enterprise, Texas Agricultural and Mechanical University, College Station, Tex.
1987-1988 Domestic policy consultant to President Ronald Reagan
1987-1999 Director, Sequoia National Bank
1988-? Member, Sarah Scaife Foundation
1989 Awarded Presidential Citizens Medal by President Ronald Reagan
Published A Foreign Policy in Service of Freedom. College Station, Tex.: Center for Education and Research in Free Enterprise, Texas Agricultural and Mechanical University
1989-1993? Member, United States Committee on Improving Effectiveness of the United Nations
1993 Published The Quiet Revolution. Washington, D.C.: Regnery Publishing
1995-1996 Vice chairman, National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform (Kemp Commission)
1996 Staff director and counselor to Republican vice presidential candidate Jack Kemp
1996-2004 Member, Board of Visitors, George Mason University, Fairfax, Va.
1997-2001 Member, Congressional Policy Advisory Board
1998 Editor March of Freedom: Modern Classics in Conservative Thought. Dallas, Tex.: Spence Publishing Co.
1999 Published Intellectual Pilgrims: The Fiftieth Anniversary of the Mont Pelerin Society. Washington, D.C.: Heritage Foundation
1999-2000 Member, International Financial Institution Advisory Commission (Meltzer Commission)
2000 Editor Leadership for America: The Principles of Conservatism. Dallas, Tex.: Spence Publishing Co.
2005 Member, Gingrich-Mitchell Congressional United Nations Reform Task Force
2006 Published with Doug Wilson Getting America Right: The True Conservative Values Our Nation Needs Today. New York, N.Y.: Crown Forum
2006 Member, Honorary Board of Trustees, Fundación Burke, Madrid, Spain
2009 Recipient, Charles Heoflich Lifetime Achievement Award, Intercollegiate Studies Institute, Wilmington, Del.
2012 Recipient, Bradley Prize (Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation) for extraordinary talent and dedication at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Washington, D.C.
Published with Brian Tracy The American Spirit: Celebrating the Virtues and Values that Make Us Great. Nashville, Tenn.: Thomas Nelson
2013 Resigned presidency, Heritage Foundation
Recipient, Ronald Reagan Lifetime Achievement Award
2013 Chairman of the Advisory Board and Chung Ju-yung Fellow, Asian Studies Center, Heritage Foundation
2016-2017 Member, transition team of president-elect Donald Trump
1888, May 12 Born, Vienna, Austria
1910 Completed undergraduate studies in psychology and literature, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
Met Sigmund Freud
1911 Admitted to the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society
1912 PhD, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria
1914 Married Eleanore (“Ella”) Oratsch (died 1934)
Moved to Berlin, Germany, to begin analysis with Karl Abraham
Received the first award in applied psychoanalysis for his essay “The Puberty Rites of Savages,” Imago, vol. 4 (1915): 189-222
1915-1918 Served in World War I
1918 Returned to Vienna, Austria
1928 Moved to Berlin, Germany
1934 Moved to The Hague, Netherlands
Married Marija Cubelic (died 1960)
1938 Immigrated to the United States, settling in New York, N.Y.
1944 Became a United States citizen
1948 Founded the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysts
1953 Published The Haunting Melody (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Young)
1957 Published Of Love and Lust: On the Psychoanalysis of Romantic and Sexual Emotions (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux)
1962 Published Jewish Wit (New York: Gamut Press)
1963 Published The Need to Be Loved (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Co.)
1964 Published Pagan Rites in Judaism (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Co.)
1966 Published The Many Faces of Sex (New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux)
1969, Dec. 31 Died, New York, N.Y.
1979 Established in Washington D.C. as a progressive, environmentalist, and liberal political party
Registered with the Federal Elections Commission
1980 Held first national convention in Cleveland, Ohio, where delegates nominated Barry Commoner for President and LaDonna Harris for Vice President
1981 Terry Bouricius is first party candidate to win an election when elected to the Board of Aldermen in Burlington, Vt.
1984 Held second national convention in St. Paul, Minn., where delegates nominated Sonia Johnson for president and Richard Walton for vice president
1987 Disbanded after low votes cast for party nominees in 1986 elections
1922, Mar. 18 Born, New York, N.Y.
1943 B.S., City College of New York, N.Y.
1945 Married Elsie Braun (died 1987)
1946-1948 Lecturer, University of Toronto, Canada
1948-1950 Assistant professor, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1949 Ph.D in sociology, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1950-1956 Assistant professor, associate professor, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1956-1966 Professor of sociology, University of California, Berkeley, Calif.
1960 Published Political Man: The Social Bases of Politics. Garden City, N.Y.: Doubleday
1963 Published First New Nation: The United States in Historical and Comparative Perspective. New York: Basic Books
1966-1975 George Markham Professor of Government and Sociology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1975-1990 Professor of political science and sociology, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1975-circa 2006 Senior fellow, Hoover Insitution on War, Revolution, and Peace, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1977-1989 Co-editor, Public Opinion
1979-1980 President, American Political Science Association
1982-1986 Vice president, president, World Association for Public Opinion Research
1990 Married Sydnee Guyer
1990-circa 2006 Virginia E. Hazel and John T. Hazel Jr. Professor of Public Policy, George Mason University, Fairfax, Va.
1992-1993 President, American Sociological Association
1995 Published with Earl Raab Jews and the New American Scene. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press
1996 Published American Exceptionalism: A Double-Edged Sword. New York: W. W. Norton
2000 Published with Gary Marks It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press
2004 Published with Jason M. Lakin Democratic Century. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press
Published with Noah M. Meltz, Rafael Gomez, and Ivan Katchanovski Paradox of American Unionism: Why Americans Like Unions More Than Canadians Do, But Join Much Less. Ithaca, N.Y.: ILR Press, an imprint of Cornell University Press
2006, Dec. 31 Died, Arlington, Va.
1891, Nov. 12 Born, New Haven, Conn.
1910 Student, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colo.
1914 B.S., United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1914-1926 Officer, United States Navy
1918 Married Lucy Knowlton Buck
1920 M.S., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
1926-1935 Chief engineer, Tide Water Oil Co., New York, N.Y.
1929 Promoted to commander by a special act of Congress for raising the sunken submarine, S-51
Published On the Bottom. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1930 Published Thirty Fathoms Deep. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1935-1941 Self-employed consulting engineer, New York, N.Y.
1938 Published Hell on Ice. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1939 Published Men Under the Sea. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1941-1951 Rejoined, United States Navy, and served as salvage officer in the Red Sea and western Mediterranean areas
1942 Published Captain Paul. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1944 Participated in the Normandy invasion where he was instrumental in setting up artificial harbors off Normandy beach
1946 Published Under the Red Sea Sun. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1949 Published No Banners, No Bugles. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
1951 Retired from the United States Navy as a rear admiral
1983, Jan. 24, Died Bryn Mawr, Pa.
1933, 20 Apr. Born, New York, N.Y.
1953 Graduated, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.
1959-1961 Special Assistant in the White House Office
1969 Deputy Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs
1969-1971 National Chairman of the White House Conference on Children and Youth
1972 Joined the Brookings Institution, Washington, D.C.
1974 United States representative to the Unesco General Conference
1976 United States representative to the United Nations General Assembly
1979-1982 Fellow of Government, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1984 Published The Government/Press Connection: Press Officers and Their Offices. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution
1991 Published Live From Capitol Hill!: Studies of Congress and the Media. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution
1996 Published International News & Foreign Correspondents. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution
2004-2009 Distinguished research professor of media and public affairs, the George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
2005 Published Through Their Eyes: Foreign Correspondents in the United States. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press
2012 Published Whatever Happened to the Washington Reporters: 1978-2012. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press
1923, Mar. 27 Born, Kingston, Jamaica
1933-1940 Attended Munro College, St. Elizabeth, Jamaica
1943-1946 U.S. Army, 101st Airborne Division
1948 B.S., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1949 Published The Arrivistes. New York: Fine Editions Press
Married Jeanne Rogers (divorced 1954)
1950 M.A., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1950-1955 Associate editor, The Bobbs-Merrill Co.
1955-1959 Instructor, Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
1955 Married Dorothy Roochvarg (divorced 1979)
1957 Awarded the Prix de Rome
1959 Ph.D., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
Published A Dream of Governors. Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press
1959-1967 Professor of English, University of California, Berkeley. Berkeley, Calif.
1962 Published Riverside Drive. New York: Atheneum Books
Recipient, Guggenheim Fellowship
1963 Published At the End of the the Open Road. Connecticut: Wesleyan University Press
1964 Awarded the Pulitzer Prize for poetry
1967-1993 Professor of English, State University of New York at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, N.Y.
1971 Published Adventures of the Letter I. New York: Harper and Row.
1972 Published North of Jamaica. New York: Harper and Row.
1976 Published Searching for the Ox. New York: William Morrow and Co.
1980 Published Caviare at the Funeral. New York: Franklin Watts, Inc.
1983 Published The Best Hour of the Night. New York: Ticknor and Fields
1985 Married Miriam Bachner (divorced 1998)
1990 Published In the Room We Share. New York: Paragon House
1994 Published The King My Father's Wreck. Oregon: Story Line Press
1997 Published Modern Poets of France: A Bilingual Anthology. Oregon: Story Line Press
2012, Sep. 18 Died, Stony Brook, N.Y.
1833, Aug. 23 Born, Truxton, N.Y.
1853-1854 School instructor, Erie County, N.Y.
1854 Relocated to Will County, Ill.
School instructor, Crete, Ill.
1856 Attended Bell's Commercial College, Chicago, Ill.
1860 Admitted to the Indianapolis, Ind., bar before returning to Will County, Ill.
Married Lydia Melissa Wood (died 1912)
1862 Enlisted as a private in Company F, 8th Illinois Cavalry Regiment, United States Army
1863 Promoted to first lieutenant; transferred to Company C, 1st Colored Infantry Regiment, United States Army
1865 Promoted to captain
Acting superintendent, United States Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, Elizabeth City, N.C.
Mustered out of the Union army
1868 Prosecuting attorney, Will and Grundy counties, Ill.
1888 Member, United States House of Representatives for Illinois; defeated for reelection in 1890
1897-1900 Assistant attorney general, Illinois
1902, May 29 Died, Joliet, Ill.
1883 Born, Santa Cruz, California
1908 Graduated Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.
1917 Enlisted with American Red Cross; attached to the 2nd Division, American Expeditionary Forces, France
1920 Deputy commissioner, American Red Cross, Montenegro
1920-1923 Business manager, and assistant to the European commissioner of the American Red Cross, Paris, France
1923-1931 Assistant to Colonel Ernest P. Bicknell, former Vice Chairman in Charge of Insular and Foreign Operations, American Red Cross
1927 Married Helen Griffin Swift
1929 Member, Red Cross China Famine Investigation Commission; visit to China
1930 Director, Red Cross hurricane relief, Dominican Republic
1931 Director, Red Cross earthquake relief, Nicaragua
1932-1936 Representative, League of Red Cross Societies on the International Relief Union’s Executive Committee
Member, governing body, Nansen International Office for Refugees, League of Nations
Secretary general, League of Red Cross Societies
1934 Vice president, International Red Cross Conference, Tokyo, Japan
1935 Chairman, American delegation to the International Air Ambulance Congress, Brussels, Belgium
Secretary general, Third Pan-American Red Cross Conference, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Vice Chairman in Charge of Insular and Foreign Operations, American Red Cross
1938 United States delegate, International Red Cross Conference, London, England
1941 Died, Washington, D. C.
Look was a biweekly, general interest popular magazine published from March 1937 to October 1971 by Gardner Cowles, Jr., under various company names: Look, Inc. (1937-1945); Cowles Magazines (1946-1965); and Cowles Communications, Inc. (1965-1971). Look began as a tabloid-style magazine that emphasized sports, movie stars, and sensationalism. After World War II, it became more family oriented and included articles on social and political subjects, as well as regular features on personalities, food, fashion, and sports. Look's "golden years" (1954-1964) followed improvements in the magazine's design and focus by editor Fleur Cowles, art director Alan Hurlburt, managing editor Dan Mich, and others.
Courtesy of the Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (http://www.loc.gov/pictures/collection/lmc/background.html)
1916, July 18 Born, St. Louis, Mo.
1932-1936 Attended Rice Institute, Houston, Tex.
1936-1940 Attended United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.
1940-1942 Served aboard Idaho (battleship)
1942-1944 Served aboard Steelhead (submarine)
1944-1945 Executive officer and navigator, Bumper (submarine)
1945-1946 Executive officer and navigator, Caiman(submarine)
1946 Married Beatrice Kirk De Garmo
1949 J.D., George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
1949-1950 Staff, Commander Submarine Force, United States Pacific Fleet, Pearl Harbor, Hawaii
1950-1952 Commanding officer, Tiru (submarine)
1953-1955 Executive officer, planning officer, and budget and fiscal officer, United States Naval School of Naval Justice, Newport, R.I.
1955-1956 Executive officer, Fulton (submarine tender)
1956-1957 Commander, Submarine Division 101
1958-1960 Military assistant to chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff and special assistant to the secretary of defense in area of legal, legislative, and politico-military affairs, Department of Defense, Washington, D.C.
1960 Retired as captain, United States Navy
1960-1961 Special assistant to Vice President Richard M. Nixon
Participated in Nixon’s presidential campaign
1961-1969 Practiced law, Suisman, Shapiro, Wool, Brennan, and Gray, New London, Conn.; partner, 1967
1969-1970 Executive assistant to secretary, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D.C.
1970-1972 Assistant attorney general, Civil Division, Department of Justice, Washington, D.C.
1972 Nominated to be deputy attorney general, Department of Justice
Appointed acting director, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Washington, D.C.
1973 Nominated to be director, Federal Bureau of Investigation in Feb.; nomination withdrawn in April
Resigned from Federal Bureau of Investigation in April
Testified before House Committee on Armed Services Special Subcommittee on Intelligence, Senate Committee on Appropriations subcommittee, and Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities regarding Watergate Affair
1973-1974 Testified before Watergate grand jury, United States District Court for the District of Columbia
1973-1975 Investigated by Watergate Special Prosecution Force
circa 1974-circa 1990 Partner, Suisman, Shapiro, Wool, Brennan, and Gray, New London and Groton, Conn.
1978 Indicted, with W. Mark Felt and Edward S. Miller, for authorizing surreptitious entry into the homes of family and friends of Weather Underground (Weatherman) fugitives
1980 Charges against Gray dropped
2005, July 6 Died, Atlantic Beach, Fla.
2008 Publication of In Nixon’s Web: A Year in the Crosshairs of Watergate with Ed Gray. New York: Henry Holt & Co.
1925, Oct. 20 Born, Mount Vernon, N.Y.
1942-1945 United States Marine Corps, 4th Marine Aircraft Wing
1945-1948 Attended the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif.
1948 Moved to Paris, France
Stringer, Variety magazine
1949 Columnist, New York Herald Tribune
1950 Published Paris After Dark. Paris: Imprimerie du Centre
1952 Married Ann McGarry (died 1994)
1962 Moved to Washington, D.C.
1962-2006 Syndicated columnist
1980 Published with Ann Buchwald, Seems Like Yesterday. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
1982 Received Pulitzer Prize for Commentary
1986 Elected to the American Institute of Arts and Letters
Received National Press Club's Fourth Estate Award
1993 Published Leaving Home. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
1996 Published I'll Always Have Paris. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
2000 Published Stella in Heaven: Almost a Novel. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
2006 Published Too Soon to Say Goodbye. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons
2007, Jan. 17 Died, Washington, D.C.
1926, June 29 Born, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
1944, June Graduated, Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.
1943-1944 Enlisted, United States Army Air Corps Enlisted Reserve and entered active duty as a private, Keesler Air Force Base, Biloxi, Miss.
1944, Dec.-1945, Aug. Officer Candidate School, Fort Benning, Ga.
1945, Aug. 16 Commissioned a second lieutenant of Infantry, United States Army
1945, Oct.-Dec. Platoon leader and executive officer, 369th Infantry Regiment, 93rd Infantry Division, Morotai, South Pacific Theater
1946 Platoon leader, 542nd Heavy Construction Company, detailed to the Signal Corps, Philippines
1947-1948 Promoted first lieutenant, Signal Corps.
1948, Jan. 29 Married Louise A. Thornton
1948 Recalled to active duty as a second lieutenant, Signal Corps, Fort Monmouth, N.J.
1949-1950 Platoon leader, 9th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, Wash.
1950 Platoon leader, L Company, 9th Infantry Regiment, Korea
1951 Company commander, L Company, 9th Infantry Regiment, Korea
1953 Promoted to captain, United States Army
1954-1957 Communications officer, company commander, and assistant operations officer, 2nd Armored Division, West Germany
1957-1960 Assistant professor of military science and tactics, ROTC program, Prairie View A&M University, Prairie View, Tex.
1960 B.S. in mathematics, Prairie View A&M, Prairie View, Tex.
1961 Promoted to major, United States Army
1961-1964 Assistant G-3 (operations), 4th Logistical Command, Verdun, France
1964 Promoted to lieutenant colonel, United States Army
1965-1966 Student, Institute for Defense Analysis and University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
1966 M.A. in economics, University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
1967, Aug-Nov. Commander, 2nd Squadron, 17th Cavalry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division, Fort Campbell, Ky.
1967, Dec.-1968, Nov. Commanding officer, 2nd Squadron, 17th Cavalry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division and assistant commander, 3rd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division, Vietnam
1969, July Promoted to colonel, United States Army
1969-1970 Student, National War College, Washington, D.C.
1970-1972 Commander, 2nd Brigade, 2nd Armored Division, Fort Hood, Tex.
1972, Jan.-Aug. Chief, Armor Branch, Officer Personnel Directorate, Office of Personnel Operations, United States Department of the Army
1972, Aug. Promoted to brigadier general, United States Army
1972-1975 Deputy commander, United States Army Training Center, Fort Dix, N.J.
1974, Aug. Promoted to major general, United States Army
1975-1976 Commanding general, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Tex.
1976-1978 Commanding general, United States Army Operational Test and Evaluation Agency
1978, May Promoted to major general, United States Army
1978, Nov. Promoted to lieutenant general, United States Army
1978-1981 Commanding general, 7th Corps, United States Army Europe, Germany
1981-1983 Deputy commanding general, Training and Doctrine Command, and Army inspector general of training, Ft. Monroe, Va.
1983, Aug. Retired from the United States Army
1984-1985 Director, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, Agency for International Development
1985-1989 Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency
1989-1994 President, Prairie View A&M University, Prairie View, Tex.
1996-1998 Superintendent/CEO, District of Columbia Public Schools, Washington, D.C.
2008 Published Becton: Autobiography of a Soldier and Public Servant. Annapolis: Naval Institute Press
2023, Nov. 28 Died, Fort Belvoir, Va.
1811, Feb. 27 Born, near Greensburg, Pa.
1833 Admitted to the Pennsylvania state bar and opened law practice
1839 Married Susan S. Kuhns (died 1896)
1839-1843 Member, United States House of Representatives
1840 Birth of son, William K. Marchand (died 1862)
1840-1841 Member, House Committee on Accounts
1841 Birth of son, John A. Marchand (died 1896)
Birth of daughter, Kate Marchand (died 1936)
1842 Declined renomination to Congress
1843 Returned to Greensburg, Pa., and resumed law practice
1845 Birth of daughter, Lizzie Marchand (died 1936)
1848, Feb. 5 Died, Greensburg, Pa.
Reverend Stephen Donald Pyle (1888-1969) was a Baptist minister in Rock Springs, Wyoming. Born in Virginia on September 13, 1888, he graduated from Brown University in 1910 and received a master’s degree in religious education from Columbia University. In the 1930s, Pyle was the pastor of the Peking United Church in Beijing, China. After retirement, Pyle moved to Oakland, California, where he died on January 3, 1969.
1782 Mar. 18 Born, Abbeville, S.C.
1811 Married Floride Bonneau Colhoun
1811-1817 U.S. Representative from South Carolina
1817-1825 U.S. Secretary of War
1825-1832 Vice President of the United States
1832-1850 U.S. Senator from South Carolina, with an absence from 1844 to 1845
1844-1845 U.S. Secretary of State
1850 Mar. 31 Died, Washington, D.C.
Biographical Note for George S. Koyl and Moira B. Mathieson
George S. Koyl was born February 8, 1885, in Evanston, Wyoming. He studied architecture at the University of Pennsylvania and the American Academy in Rome. He worked as an architect in Colorado and New York, and later opened up his own independent firm. He then partnered with the firm Rich, Mathesius & Koyl in 1929. He left the firm in 1932 to work as the Dean of the School of Fine Arts at the University of Pennsylvania. He retired in 1950 and worked as a professor of architecture until 1955. Koyl was the president of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) chapter in Pennsylvania from 1943 to 1944 and served on its executive committee from 1943 to 1946.
Moira B. Mathieson was born around 1924. She became a freelance writer and editor after a career in architecture and art history. From 1963 to 1969, she was the Head of Architectural Drawings Project, Department of Civil History at the Smithsonian Institution. Together, Koyl and Mathieson compiled and edited American Architectural Drawings: a Catalog of Original and Measured Drawings of Buildings of the United States of America to December 31, 1917 (1969), which was funded by a Kress Foundation grant and prepared and published through the Philadelphia Chapter of the AIA.
1927, March 4 Born, New York, N.Y.
1945 Married Jean Louise Connelly
Served in United States Army, Fort Dix, N.J., and Camp Joseph T. Robinson, Little Rock, Ark.
1946-1964 Wrote and published a series of books of humor material for performers
1946-1947 Wrote articles for Magic is Fun magazine
1948-1954 Columnist, Genii magazine
circa 1951 Writer, Fun with Felix television program
1958-1968 Founder and owner, Orben Publications with Stanley Kupferman
1958-1968 Published Orben's Current Comedy, a topical humor periodical
1961-circa 1967 Wrote material for comedian Dick Gregory
1962 Editor, From the Back of the Bus by Dick Gregory. N.Y.: Dutton
1962-1964 Writer, The Jack Paar Program
1964-1970 Writer, The Red Skelton Hour
1966 Published The Joke-Teller's Handbook, or 1,999 Belly Laughs. N.Y.: Doubleday
1969 Published The Ad-Libber's Handbook: 2000 New Laughs for Speakers. N.Y.: Doubleday
1960s-1990s Consultant, speechwriter for politicians and other public figures
1971 Resumed publishing Orben's Current Comedy
Published The Encyclopedia of One-Liner Comedy. N.Y.: Doubleday
1971-1973 Founder and owner, The Comedy Center, a company that sold comedy products
1971-1972 Published Orben Comedy Letter
1971-1980 Published Orben's Comedy Fillers
1974 Consultant to Vice President Gerald R. Ford
1974-1975 Speechwriter and associate editor for President Gerald R. Ford
1976-1977 Director, White House Speechwriting Staff
Special assistant to the President
1979 Published 2500 Jokes to Start 'Em Laughing. N.Y.: Doubleday
1970s-1990s Consultant, speechwriter, and advisor on the use of humor in public speaking for executives and corporations
1983 Published 2100 Laughs for All Occasions. N.Y.: Doubleday
1984 Published 2400 Jokes to Brighten Your Speeches. N.Y.: Doubleday
1986 Published 2000 Sure-Fire Jokes for Speakers: The Encyclopedia of One-Liner Comedy. N.Y.: Doubleday
2000 Published Speaker's Handbook of Humor. Springfield, Mass.: Merriam-Webster
2007 Published The Speechwriter's Handbook of Humor: A Practical Guide to Getting Laughs in Public Speeches and Presentations. Portland, Oreg.: Marion Street Press
2023, Feb. 2 Died, Alexandria, Va.
1924, Jan. 3 Born, Brooklyn, N.Y.
1941-1943 Student, Cooper Union School of Engineering, New York, N.Y.
1943-1946 Ensign, United States Navy
1945 B.E.E., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
1946-1977 Engineer; general manager, Planning and Research; and vice president, Planning and Research, Public Service Electric and Gas Co., Newark, N.J.
1949 Married Madeline Russo (died 2014)
1977-1979 Vice president, Stone and Webster Management Consultants, New York, N.Y.
1979-1998 President, chairman of the board, and board member, Casazza, Schultz & Associates, Washington, D.C.; moved in 1984 to Arlington, Va.
1990 Received Herman Halperin Electric Transmission and Distribution Award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
1990-1994 Member, Energy Engineering Board of the National Research Council, Washington, D.C.
1993 Published The Development of Electric Power Transmission: The Role Played by Technology, Institutions, and People. New York: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
1994 Received Philip Sporn Award from the International Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE)
1994-2009 Founder and president, American Education Institute, Arlington, Va.; moved in 1998 to Springfield, Va.
1997-1999 Board member, Board of Adjustment, Commonwealth Edison, Chicago, Ill.
1997-2004 Outside director, Georgia Systems Operations Corporation, Tucker, Ga.
1998-2000 Member, Executive Committee of New York State Reliability Council
2000 Edited with George C. Loehr The Evolution of Electric Power Transmission Under Deregulation: Selected Readings. Piscataway, N.J.: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
2001 Published Sham? Shame!: Inside the Electric Power Industry. Springfield, Va.: American Education Institute
2003 Co-founder, Power Engineers Supporting Truth, Springfield, Va.
Published with Frank Delea Understanding Electric Power Systems: An Overview of the Technology and the Marketplace, 1st ed. Piscataway, N.J.: IEEE Press; Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley
2007 Published Forgotten Roots: Electric Power, Profits, Democracy and a Profession. Springfield, Va.: self-published
2010 Published with Frank Delea Understanding Electric Power Systems: An Overview of the Technology, the Marketplace and Government Regulation, 2nd ed. Piscataway, N.J.: IEEE Press; Hoboken, N.J.: Wiley
2012 Published Superpower: A Historical Novel About the People Responsible for our National Power Grid. Mustang, Okla.: Tate Publishing & Enterprises, LLC
2019, Jan. 9 Died, Fairfax, Va.
Isabella Karle
1921, Dec. 2 Born Isabella Helen Lugoski, Detroit, Mich.
1941 B.S., chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1942 M.S., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Married Jerome Karle (died 2013)
1944 Ph.D., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Research Associate, Manhattan Project, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1944-1946 Chemistry instructor, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1946-2009 Physicist, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C. (Head of Laboratory for the Structure of Matter X-Ray Analysis Section beginning in 1968)
1965 Awarded Navy Superior Civilian Service Award
1968 Awarded Society of Women Engineers Annual Achievement Award
1970 Awarded American Chemical Society Hillebrand Prize
1973 Awarded Federal Woman’s Award
1976 President, American Crystallographic Association
Awarded American Chemical Society Garvan Medal
1978 Elected to National Academy of Sciences
1980 Awarded Captain Robert Dexter Conrad Award for Scientific Achievement, Office of Naval Research
1984 Awarded American Institute of Chemists Chemical Pioneer Award
1986 Awarded Women in Science and Engineering Lifetime Achievement Award (WISE)
1987 Awarded Secretary of the Navy Distinguished Achievement in Science Award
1988 Awarded Gregory Aminoff Prize, Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
Awarded Navy League Rear Admiral William S. Parsons Award
1991 Awarded National Institutes of Health Paul Ehrlich Prize
1992 Awarded American Peptide Society Vincent du Vigneaud Award
Elected to American Philosophical Society
1993 Awarded the Franklin Institute Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science
Elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences
1995 Awarded National Medal of Science, Chemistry
Awarded National Academy of Sciences Award in Chemical Sciences
Awarded Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award
1997 Awarded American Chemical Society Ralph Hirschmann Award in Peptide Science
1998 Awarded Naval Research Laboratory Lifetime Achievement Award
2002 Awarded Office of Naval Research Fred E. Saalfeld Award for Lifetime Achievement in Science
2017, Oct. 3 Died, Arlington, Va.
Jerome Karle
1918, June 18 Born Jerome Karfunkle, New York, N.Y.
1937 B.S., chemistry and biology, City College of New York, New York, N.Y.
1938 M.A., biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1938-1940 Laboratory technician, New York State Health Department, Albany, N.Y.
1942 Married Isabella Helen Lugoski (died 2017)
1943-1944 Technician, Manhattan Project, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1944 Ph.D., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1944-1946 Laboratory technician, Naval Research Laboratory, Lubrication Section, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1946-1968 Supervisory physicist, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C.
1951-1970 Lecturer, University College of University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
1952-1955 Member, United States National Committee for Crystallography
1961 Elected fellow, American Physical Society
1967-1987 Member, National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council
1968 Appointed Chair of Science, Naval Research Laboratory
Awarded Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Award
1968-2009 Chief scientist, Laboratory for the Structure of Matter, Naval Research Laboratory
1970 Awarded American Chemical Society Hillebrand Prize
1971 Vice president, American Crystallographic Association
1972 President, American Crystallographic Association
1973-1975 Chairman, United States National Committee for Crystallography
1974-1975 Chairman, National Research Council committee, “Status and Future Potential of Crystallography”
1976 Elected to National Academy of Sciences
Awarded Captain Robert Dexter Conrad Award for Scientific Achievement, Office of Naval Research
1976-1977 Consultant, National Science Foundation
1979-1981 Member, Committee on Chemistry and Federal Policy, National Academy of Sciences
1981-1984 President, International Union of Crystallography
1984 Awarded American Crystallographic Association Patterson Award
1985 Awarded Nobel Prize in chemistry (with Herbert A. Hauptman)
1986 Awarded President’s Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service
Awarded Secretary of Navy Award for Distinguished Achievement in Science
Awarded Navy League Rear Admiral William S. Parsons Award
Awarded National Library of Medicine medal
1988-1991 Chairman, Chemistry Section, National Academy of Sciences
1990 Elected member, American Philosophical Society
1993 Awarded Naval Research Laboratory Lifetime Achievement award
1994 Awarded 1992 Ettore Majorana-Erice “Science for Peace” Prize
2002 Awarded Office of Naval Research Fred E. Saalfeld Award for Lifetime Achievement in Science
2013, June 6 Died, Annandale, Va.
Isabella Karle
1921, Dec. 2 Born Isabella Helen Lugoski, Detroit, Mich.
1941 B.S., chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1942 M.S., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Married Jerome Karle (died 2013)
1944 Ph.D., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Research Associate, Manhattan Project, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1944-1946 Chemistry instructor, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1946-2009 Physicist, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C. (Head of Laboratory for the Structure of Matter X-Ray Analysis Section beginning in 1968)
1965 Awarded Navy Superior Civilian Service Award
1968 Awarded Society of Women Engineers Annual Achievement Award
1970 Awarded American Chemical Society Hillebrand Prize
1973 Awarded Federal Woman’s Award
1976 President, American Crystallographic Association
Awarded American Chemical Society Garvan Medal
1978 Elected to National Academy of Sciences
1980 Awarded Captain Robert Dexter Conrad Award for Scientific Achievement, Office of Naval Research
1984 Awarded American Institute of Chemists Chemical Pioneer Award
1986 Awarded Women in Science and Engineering Lifetime Achievement Award (WISE)
1987 Awarded Secretary of the Navy Distinguished Achievement in Science Award
1988 Awarded Gregory Aminoff Prize, Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
Awarded Navy League Rear Admiral William S. Parsons Award
1991 Awarded National Institutes of Health Paul Ehrlich Prize
1992 Awarded American Peptide Society Vincent du Vigneaud Award
Elected to American Philosophical Society
1993 Awarded the Franklin Institute Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science
Elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences
1995 Awarded National Medal of Science, Chemistry
Awarded National Academy of Sciences Award in Chemical Sciences
Awarded Department of Defense Distinguished Civilian Service Award
1997 Awarded American Chemical Society Ralph Hirschmann Award in Peptide Science
1998 Awarded Naval Research Laboratory Lifetime Achievement Award
2002 Awarded Office of Naval Research Fred E. Saalfeld Award for Lifetime Achievement in Science
2017, Oct. 3 Died, Arlington, Va.
Jerome Karle
1918, June 18 Born Jerome Karfunkle, New York, N.Y.
1937 B.S., chemistry and biology, City College of New York, New York, N.Y.
1938 M.A., biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1938-1940 Laboratory technician, New York State Health Department, Albany, N.Y.
1942 Married Isabella Helen Lugoski (died 2017)
1943-1944 Technician, Manhattan Project, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1944 Ph.D., physical chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1944-1946 Laboratory technician, Naval Research Laboratory, Lubrication Section, Ann Arbor, Mich.
1946-1968 Supervisory physicist, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C.
1951-1970 Lecturer, University College of University of Maryland, College Park, Md.
1952-1955 Member, United States National Committee for Crystallography
1961 Elected fellow, American Physical Society
1967-1987 Member, National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council
1968 Appointed Chair of Science, Naval Research Laboratory
Awarded Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Award
1968-2009 Chief scientist, Laboratory for the Structure of Matter, Naval Research Laboratory
1970 Awarded American Chemical Society Hillebrand Prize
1971 Vice president, American Crystallographic Association
1972 President, American Crystallographic Association
1973-1975 Chairman, United States National Committee for Crystallography
1974-1975 Chairman, National Research Council committee, “Status and Future Potential of Crystallography”
1976 Elected to National Academy of Sciences
Awarded Captain Robert Dexter Conrad Award for Scientific Achievement, Office of Naval Research
1976-1977 Consultant, National Science Foundation
1979-1981 Member, Committee on Chemistry and Federal Policy, National Academy of Sciences
1981-1984 President, International Union of Crystallography
1984 Awarded American Crystallographic Association Patterson Award
1985 Awarded Nobel Prize in chemistry (with Herbert A. Hauptman)
1986 Awarded President’s Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service
Awarded Secretary of Navy Award for Distinguished Achievement in Science
Awarded Navy League Rear Admiral William S. Parsons Award
Awarded National Library of Medicine medal
1988-1991 Chairman, Chemistry Section, National Academy of Sciences
1990 Elected member, American Philosophical Society
1993 Awarded Naval Research Laboratory Lifetime Achievement award
1994 Awarded 1992 Ettore Majorana-Erice “Science for Peace” Prize
2002 Awarded Office of Naval Research Fred E. Saalfeld Award for Lifetime Achievement in Science
2013, June 6 Died, Annandale, Va.
Ara Mesrobian was born August 7, 1924, in Washington, D.C. He attended Catholic University, graduating with a degree in electrical engineering in 1950 after serving in World War II in the Pacific Theater. He worked for the National Bureau of Standards for thirty years. In his free time, Mesrobian pursued his passion for photography and rail transportation, traveling widely to ride, photograph, and film trains. He was a member of the National Railway Historical Society (NRHS) for seventy years and was a founding member of the Potomac Chapter of the NRHS. He also participated in the Tractioneers, a Washington, D.C.-based organization devoted to trolleys and light-rail transportation. Mesrobian died June 18, 2019, in Chevy Chase, Md.
1945, May 18 Born, Brooklyn, New York City, N.Y.
1967 B.A., Queens College, Queens, New York, N.Y.
1968-1970 Pollster and computer analyst, NBC News, New York, N.Y.
1969-1970 Computer programmer, New York Stock Exchange, New York, N.Y.
1970 Consultant, James L. Buckley United States Senate campaign, N.Y.
1972 Director of demographics and election analysis, Richard M. Nixon, presidential campaign
1972 Founder, AJF & Associates
1980-1993 Board member, Consumer Alert
2005 Married Donald Curiale
2013 Inducted, American Association of Political Consultants Hall of Fame
2017, Aug. 18 Died, Ipswich, Mass.
1925, Dec. 11 Born, Mankato, Minn.
1944-1945 National president, Student Federalists
1947 B.A., Carleton College, Northfield, Minn.
1949 Rhodes scholar, University of Oxford, Oxford, England
M.A., University of Oxford, Oxford, England
1951-1952 Professional staff, United States Senate Subcommittee on Labor and Labor-Management Relations
1952 J.D., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1952-1964 Lieutenant and major, United States Air Force
1955 Married Jean Hurlburt Reiman (died 1993)
1955-1958 Legislative counsel, United States Senator Hubert H. Humphrey
1959-1960 Administrative assistant, United States Congressman Chester Bowles
1961-1969 Deputy assistant secretary, deputy director, and director, Bureau of Intelligence and Research, Department of State
1965 Awarded Arthur S. Flemming award
1969-1970 Minister and deputy chief of mission, United States Embassy, London, England
1971-1991 President, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
1995 Married Jane Dudley Casey Kuczynski
1916, June 4 Born, Richmond, Va.
1938 B.A., Barnard College, New York, N.Y.
1938-1940 Journalist, Richmond Times-Dispatch
1940 Publicist, Virginia, Paramount Pictures, Charlottesville, Va.
1940-1941 Correspondent, Newsweek, Washington bureau, Washington, D.C.
1941-1942 Correspondent, Chicago Sun, Washington bureau, Washington, D.C.
1942-1945 Correspondent, New York Herald Tribune, Washington bureau, Washington, D.C.
1943 Chair, Mrs. Roosevelt's Press Conference Association
1946-1947 Chief information officer, United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, China
1947-circa 2000 Freelance journalist
1948-1949 Information officer, Economic Cooperation Administration, Europe
1950 Married James Free (died 1996)
1963 Published Forever the Wild Mare. New York: Dodd, Mead
1963 Awarded Schweitzer Medal, Animal Welfare Institute
1976-circa 1995 Board member, Albert Schweitzer Fellowship
1982 Published Animals, Nature, and Albert Schweitzer. New York: A. Schweitzer Fellowship
1987 Published No Room, Save the Heart. Washington, D.C.: Flying Fox Press
Awarded Rachel Carson Legacy Award, Rachel Carson Council
1996 Elected to the Virginia Communications Hall of Fame
2004, Oct. 30 Died, Washington, D.C.
1893, Aug. 28 Born, Emporium, Pa.
1915 Graduated United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
1917 Married Helen Wahrenberger (died 1975)
1917-1919 United States Army Air Service, France
1920-1925 Student and instructor, Air Corps Tactical School, Langley Field, Va.
1926 Graduated Command and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kans.
1926-1929 Member, Air Section, Military Intelligence Division, United States War Department, Washington, D.C.
1933-1935 Instructor, Army War College, Washington, D.C.
1939-1941 Member, Joint Army-Navy Planning Committee to adapt military to World War II; chief of staff, United States Army Special Observer Group, London, England; member, Roberts Commission on the Facts of the Japanese Attack on Pearl Harbor
1942-1944 Developed plan for land-based anti-submarine warfare leading to the formation of the United States Army Air Forces Antisubmarine Command; appointed deputy supreme allied commander in chief, Mediterranean Theatre
1945-1947 Commanding general, United States Forces, European Theater; commander in chief, United States Forces of Occupation in Europe; and military governor, American-occupied zone, Frankfurt, Germany.
1947-1952 General, United States Air Force
1952 Retired, United States military
1972, Feb. 1 Died, La Jolla, Calif.
1927, Aug. 11 Born, Cincinnati, Ohio
1946 Enlisted, U.S. Army
1947 Technician Fifth Grade, 118th Station Hospital, United States Army, Fukuoka, Japan
1948 Honorably discharged, United States Army
1952 B.S., University of Cincinnati, Ohio
1954 M.D., University of Cincinnati, Ohio
Married Margery Stephenson (died 1997)
circa 2003 Married Rose Marie Hartman Weishaupt (later divorced)
2012, Aug. 19 Died, Stockton, Calif.
1886, June 25 Born, Gladwyne, Pa.
1907 Graduated, United States Military Academy, West Point, N.Y.
Commissioned second lieutenant in the infantry, United States Army
1907-1909 Served with the twenty-ninth infantry, the Philippines
1909-1911 Served with the twenty-ninth infantry, Governor's Island, N.Y.
1911 Taught to fly in ten days by Orville Wright, Dayton, Ohio
Received military aviator's license number two
1911-1912 Flight instructor, Signal Corps Aviation School, College Park, Md., and Augusta, Ga.
1912 Awarded first Mackay trophy for a thirty-mile triangular reconnaissance flight
First military aviator to use a radio for aerial observation of field artillery fire
1913 Married Eleanor A. Pool
1916 Served briefly with thirteenth infantry, the Philippines
Served two months with third infantry, Madison Barracks, N.Y.
1916-1917 Returned to air service as a captain
Supply officer, Aviation School, San Diego, Calif.
1917 Organized and commanded Seventh Aero Squadron, Panama Canal Zone
1917-1918 In charge of Information Service, Aviation Division, Signal Corps
Assistant executive director, military aeronautics
1918 Executive officer and later assistant director, military aeronautics
Inspected aviation activities in Europe
1919 District supervisor, Western District, Air Service, Rockwell Field, Coronado, Calif.
1919-1922 Originated and activated first army aerial forest fire patrol in Washington, Oregon, and California
Air officer, Ninth Corps Area, San Francisco, Calif.
1922-1924 Commanding officer, Rockwell Air Depot, Coronado, Calif.
1925 Graduated, Army Industrial College, Washington, D.C.
Obtained air mail charter from the postmaster general and organized Pan American Airways with Carl Spaatz, Jack Jouett, and John Montgomery
1926 Published Airmen and Aircraft: An Introduction to Aeronautics (New York: Ronald Press. 216 pp.)
1926-1929 Commander, air squadron, Cavalry School, Fort Riley, Kans.
1928 Published Bill Bruce aviator series
1929 Graduated, Command and General Staff School, Ft. Leavenworth, Kans.
1929-1936 Commander, Fairfield and Dayton, Ohio, and March Field, Calif.
Established Munroc Lake, Calif., bombing and gunnery range for early experiments in precision bombardment.
1933-1935 Supervised twenty-five Civilian Conservation Corps, March Field, Calif.
1934 Directed Western Division, Air Corps air mail service, Salt Lake City, Utah
Awarded distinguished flying cross and second Mackay trophy for leading a mass flight of bombers from Washington, D.C., to Alaska
1936 Published with Ira Eaker This Flying Game (New York: Funk & Wagnalls. 275 pp.)
1936-1938 Assistant to chief of air corps, Washington, D.C.
1938-1942 Chief of air corps; acting deputy chief of staff for air, 1940
1941 Published with Ira Eaker Winged Warfare (New York: Harper & Bros. 265 pp.)
1941-1942 Chief of army air forces
1941-1945 Member, Joint and Combined Chiefs of Staff, Arcadia (Newfoundland), post Arcadia (Washington, D.C.), Casablanca, Quadrant, (Quebec, Canada), Sextant (Cairo, Egypt- Tehran, Iran), London, Octagon (Quebec, Canada), and Terminal (Berlin, Germany) conferences
1942 Published with Ira Eaker Army Flyer (New York: Harper & Bros. 299 pp.)
1942-1946 Commanding general, army air forces
Deputy chief of staff, army
1943 Promoted to general
1944 Named to five star rank of general of the army
1946 Assigned to duty in the Office of Chief of Staff, Washington, D.C.
Retired from active duty to his ranch, Sonoma, Calif.
1949 Published Global Mission (New York: Harper & Bros. 626 pp.)
1950 Died, Sonoma, Calif.
1908, Oct. 5 Born, Texarkana, Tex.
1927 Diploma, Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
1927-1931 Attended Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
1928-1935 Actor, codirector, University Players, Falmouth, Mass.
1931 Studied under Konstantin Stanislavsky, Moscow Art Theatre, Moscow, USSR
1938 Director, On Borrowed Time, a play by Paul Osborn
Director, I Married an Angel, a play by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart
Director, Knickerbocker Holiday, a play by Maxwell Anderson
1940 Married Barbara O'Neil (divorced 1941)
Director, Charley's Aunt, a play by Brandon Thomas
1942-1945 Captain, United States Army Air Corps
1945 Married Grace (Nedda) Harrigan Connolly
1946 Director, Annie Get Your Gun, a play by Herbert and Dorothy Fields
Director, Happy Birthday, a play by Anita Loos
1947 Director, John Loves Mary, a play by Norman Krasna
1948 Director, coauthor, Mister Roberts, a play by Thomas Heggen and Joshua Logan
1949 Director, coauthor, coproducer, South Pacific, a play by Oscar Hammerstein and Joshua Logan
1950 Pulitzer Prize, coauthor, South Pacific
Tony Award, Best Director, South Pacific
Director, author, coproducer, The Wisteria Trees
1952 Director, coauthor, coproducer, Wish You Were Here, a play by Arthur Kober and Joshua Logan
1953 Director, coproducer, Picnic, a play by William Inge
Director, producer, Kind Sir, a play by Norman Krasna
1954 Director, coauthor, coproducer, Fanny, a play by S. N. Behrman and Joshua Logan
1955 Director, Picnic, a Columbia Pictures film
Golden Globe Award, Best Director, Picnic
1956 Director, Bus Stop, a Twentieth Century-Fox film
1957 Director, Sayonara, a Warner Brothers film
Director, South Pacific, a Magna-Twentieth Century-Fox film
1958 Director, coproducer, The World of Suzy Wong, a play by Paul Osborn
1961 Director, producer, Fanny, a Warner Brothers film
1962 Director, Mr. President, a play by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse
1964 Director, producer, Ensign Pulver, a Warner Brothers film
1967 Director, Camelot, a Warner Brothers film
1969 Director, Paint Your Wagon, a Paramount Pictures film
1974 Director, coauthor, coproducer, Miss Moffat, a play by Emlyn Williams and Joshua Logan
1976 Author, Josh; My Up and Down, In and Out Life (New York: Delacorte Press. 408 pp.)
Director, author, lyricist, Rip Van Winkle, a play
1978 Author, Movie Stars, Real People, and Me (New York: Delacorte Press. 368 pp.)
1982 Director, translator, Carmen, an opera by Georges Bizet, performed by Shreveport Symphony Orchestra, Shreveport, La.
1983 Director, author, Huck and Jim on the Mississippi, a play
1983-1986 Instructor, Department of Theatre, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Fla.
1988, July 12 Died, New York, N.Y.
1906, Sept. 14 Born, Chicago, Ill.
1928 Ph.B., University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1930 J.D., University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.
1930-1941 Associate in law firm of McInerney, Epstein & Arvey, Chicago, Ill.
1931 Married Ceretta Samuels (died 1958)
Published with A. I. Tobin Frank Harris: A Study in Black and White (Chicago: Madelaine Mendelsohn. 293 pp.)
1934 Director of public relations, Illinois Police Association
1941-1973 Attorney in private practice, Chicago, Ill.
1944 Member, Executive Committee, Illinois Committee for Equal Job Opportunity
Member, national and Chicago Advisory Board Commission on Law and Social Action, American Jewish Congress
1945-1947 Chairman, Veterans Housing Committee, Chicago, Ill.
1946-1948 Legislative chairman of Mayor's Emergency Housing Committee, Chicago, Ill.
1949-1951 Member, Mayor's Housing Action Committee, Chicago, Ill.
1959 Married Mamie L. Friedman
1959-1963 President, Greater Chicago Council of the American Jewish Congress
1965 Published A Handful of Clients (Chicago: Follett Publishing Co. 379 pp.)
1965-1969 President, Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago
1968 Member, Chicago Citizens Commission to Study the Disorders of Convention Week
Published Moment of Madness: The People vs. Jack Ruby (Chicago: Follett Publishing Co. 564 pp.)
1969-1970 Delegate to the sixth Illinois Constitutional Convention; chairman of its Committee on Bill of Rights
1970-circa 1997 Professor, John Marshall Law School, Chicago, Ill.
1972 Awarded the state of Israel's Prime Minister's Medal
Published For the First Hours of Tomorrow: The New Illinois Bill of Rights (Urbana: University of Illinois Press. 178 pp.
1973 Became partner in law firm of Gertz and Giampietro, Chicago, Ill.
1974 Successful plaintiff in landmark libel suitGertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.
Published To Life: The Story of a Chicago Lawyer (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co. 308 pp.)
1975 Editor, The Short Stories of Frank Harris: A Selection (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. 299 pp.)
1978 Editor, Henry Miller: Years of Trial and Triumph, 1962-1964: The Correspondence of Henry Miller and Elmer Gertz (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. 345 pp.)
1978-1980 First Amendment Lawyers Association; president, 1978-1979; chairman, 1979-1980
1979 Published Odyssey of a Barbarian: The Biography of George Sylvester Viereck (Buffalo: Prometheus Books. 305 pp.)
1980 Published Charter for a New Age: An Inside View of the Sixth Illinois Constitutional Convention (Urbana: University of Illinois Press. 378 pp.)
1983 Published A Guide to Estate Planning (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. 179 pp.)
1984 Published Quest for a Constitution: A Man Who Wouldn't Quit: A Political Biography of Samuel Witwer of Illinois (Lanham, Md.: University Press of America. 231 pp.)
1992 Published Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc.: The Story of a Landmark Libel Case (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. 295 pp.)
2000, Apr. 27 Died, Chicago, Ill.
1892, May 7 Born, Glencoe, Ill.
1915 A.B., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
1916 Married Ada Hitchcock
1917-1919 Served in United States Army
1919 LL.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1920-1923 Member of Boston, Mass., law firm, Choate, Hall and Stewart
1923-1928 Moved to Paris, France, devoting time to travel and literature
1929-1938 Editor, Fortune magazine
1932 Pulitzer Prize in poetry
1939-1944 Librarian of Congress
1941-1942 Director, Office of Facts and Figures, War Department
1942-1943 Assistant Director, Office of War Information, War Department
1944 American delegate, Conference of Allied Ministers of Education, London, England
1944-1945 Assistant secretary of state for cultural affairs
1945 Chairman, American delegation to London conference to draft constitution for UNESCO
Participated in drafting of United Nations charter at the San Francisco Conference
1946 Chairman, American delegation to the First General Conference of UNESCO, Paris, France
First American member, executive council of UNESCO
1949-1962 Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1953 Pulitzer Prize in poetry
Bollingen Prize in poetry
National Book Award in poetry
1953-1956 President, American Academy of Arts and Letters
1959 Pulitzer Prize in drama
1963-1967 Simpson lecturer, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
1977 Presidential Medal of Freedom
1978 National Medal for literature
1982, Apr. 20 Died, Boston, Mass.
1904, Apr. 22 Born, New York, N.Y.
1925 A.B., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1925-1926 Student, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England
1927 Ph. D., University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany
1928-1929 Fellow, International Education Board, Leiden University, Leiden, Netherlands, and University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland
1929-1947 Assistant professor, associate professor, and professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley, and California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif.
1940 Married Katherine Harrison
1943-1945 Director, Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, Los Alamos, N. Mex.
1946 Member, Secretary of State's Committee on Atomic Energy
1946-1952 Chairman, General Advisory Committee to the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission
1946-1954 Member, Research and Development Board's Committee on Atomic Energy
1947-1966 Director and professor of physics, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.
1949-1955 Member, Board of Overseers of Harvard College
1954 Denied security clearance by the Personnel Security Board of the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission
Published Science and the Common Understanding (New York: Simon and Schuster. 120 pp.)
1955 Published The Open Mind (New York: Simon and Schuster. 146 pp.)
1963 Received the Enrico Fermi Award
1967, Feb. 18 Died, Princeton, N.J.
1800 Firm established in Baltimore, Md., by Alexander Brown (1764-1834)
1804 Alexander Brown (1764-1834) organized Baltimore Water Co.
1810 William Brown (1784-1864) sent to London, England, to establish firm of Brown Shipley & Co.
1818 John A. Brown (1788-1872) sent to Philadelphia, Pa., to found Brown Brothers Harriman and Company
1825 James Brown (1791-1877) sent to New York to found firm of Brown Brothers & Co.
1827 Alexander Brown (1764-1834) helped organize Baltimore & Ohio Railroad
Brown v. Maryland decided in favor of Alex. Brown & Sons
1834 Alexander Brown (born 1764) died
George Brown (1787-1859) named senior partner
1839 Alex. Brown & Sons became separate banking concern
1859 George Stewart Brown (1834-1890) named head of Baltimore, Md., house
1890 Alexander Brown (1858-1949) named senior partner
1924 Benjamin Howell Griswold (1858-1949) named head of firm
1946 Alexander B. Griswold (1907-) succeeded his father as senior partner
1918, Dec. 21 Born, Cambridge, Mass.
1940 B.A., Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
1940-1946 Served in United States Marine Corps, becoming lieutenant colonel
Posted to Iceland and participated in Guadalcanal, New Georgia, North Solomons, Guam, and Okinawa operations in the Pacific
1942 Married Ann Gordon Buchanan
1946 Entered training program, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Beane
1968 President, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Smith
1970-1980 Member, board of trustees, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa. (chairman 1974-1978)
1971 Elected chairman of the board and chief executive officer, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Smith
1972 Published A View from the Street (New York: New American Library. 220 pp.)
1972-1975 Vice chairman, director, New York Stock Exchange
1981 Resigned from Merrill Lynch and Co.
1981-1985 Secretary of the treasury
1985-1987 White House chief of staff
1987-1994 President, Regdon Associates , Alexandria, Va.
1987-1989 Commentator, NBC News and NBC Radio Network
1988 Published For the Record: From Wall Street to Washington (New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. 397 pp.)
2003, June 10 Died, Williamsburg, Va.
The George Korson Folklore Archive was presented by George Korson to King's College, Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania in 1965 and donated by King's College to the American Folklife Center in 2003.
[From Index to the Chester A. Arthur Papers (Washington, D.C.: 1961), pp. v-vii]
You may be sure that I am as interested as you are in having the Arthur papers finally come to rest in the Library of Congress. The ones that I have in my possession have travelled a good deal—over to Europe, back to Colorado, California, and now here [New York]. During his lifetime, my father would never let anyone see them—not even me. When they finally came into my possession, I was amazed that there were so few. At my father's funeral in Albany, or rather at the interment of his ashes which took place several months after his death [July 17, 1934], I enquired of all the cousins there assembled—the nieces and nephews of my grandfather, as to what had happened to the bulk of the papers. Charles E. McElroy, the son of Mary Arthur McElroy who was my grandfather's First Lady, tells me that the day before he died, my grandfather caused to be burned three large garbage cans, each at least four feet high, full of papers which I am sure would have thrown much light on history.
So wrote Chester A. Arthur III to Dr. Thomas P. Martin, then Acting Chief of the Manuscript Division of the Library of Congress, on April 15, 1938. [1]
For many years President Arthur was represented in the Manuscript Division by a single document, a letter he had written during the Civil War and which the Library purchased in 1902. Beginning in 1910 and continuing to the present, successive chiefs of the division have done what they could do to assemble surviving Arthur manuscripts. For the first of these chiefs, Gaillard Hunt, who in that year initiated the search for the main body of the Arthur Papers, there was little but discouragement as a result of his inquiries. However, his persistence and what he was able to learn were to encourage his successors. He wrote first to Col. William G. Rice and learned the address of Mrs. John E. McElroy, Arthur's sister and official hostess during his administration. Mr. Hunt wrote to her and learned from her that Chester A. Arthur, Jr., controlled the papers. After several attempts, Mr. Hunt learned Mr. Arthur's address and wrote to him. The reply—written on March 13, 1915, five years after the search began—provided the first concrete but frustrating evidence:
I beg you will excuse my tardiness in replying to your letter of November 4th [1914]. The question of my father's papers is a very sore subject with me.
These papers were supposed to be in certain chests which were stored on their receipt from Washington, in the cellar of 123 Lexington Avenue. After my father's death, they were removed, I believe, by direction of the executors to a store house recommended by Mr. McElroy at Albany. Several years ago on making my residence in Colorado, I sent for these chests of papers and found in them nothing but custom house records of no particular value or importance. Where the papers they were supposed to contain have vanished, is a mystery.
Three years later, in 1918, the Library acquired, as a loan, its second Arthur document, the draft of his veto message of the Fitz-John Porter bill. Arthur H. Masten, a nephew of the President, had not inherited the document but had received it as a gift from the widow of Adrian H. Joline, in whose autograph collection it had been found. Masten's heirs have given the Library of Congress title to this manuscript.
The Library renewed its inquiries in various quarters from time to time with no significant result until Charles Moore, in 1924, while Acting Chief of the Manuscript Division, wrote a long letter to John H. Finley of the New York Times.[2] As a result, Dr. Finley published in the Times an editorial plea for Arthur manuscripts, but there was no immediate response. Other inquiries were made to: J. Stanley-Brown, who had been President James A. Garfield's secretary and who had also served Arthur briefly; Charles M. Hendley, a former White House executive clerk, who provided some personal recollections; Rudolph Forster, in 1924 executive clerk at the White House; Elihu Root and Robert T. Lincoln; and the County Clerk of New York County, N.Y., who provided a copy of Arthur's will; and various others.
In June 1925 Louise Reed Mitchell, the daughter of Arthur's secretary, James C. Reed, informed the Librarian of Congress that she had inherited some 50 Arthur manuscripts. She sold these to the Library. The Librarian's Annual Report for 1925, p. 56-57, reviewed the search and the results up to that time and assessed the collection as "neither extensive nor are the documents themselves of high historical importance; but a gap in the records of the presidency has been filled in as satisfactory a manner as is possible."
In 1938 a fresh trail, opened up by a suggestion made by Jeannette P. Nichols, led to President Arthur's grandson, part of whose reply introduces this essay. In the same year, as a result of an exchange of letters with the Library, Mr. Arthur deposited 90 of the more important documents he had in his possession.[3] These manuscripts, together with an additional 470 documents which had remained in his possession, were sold to the Library in 1958.
It was fortunate that the greatly augmented but still small collection reached its present size soon after the Congress authorized and directed the Librarian of Congress to arrange, microfilm, and index the Arthur and 22 other collections of Presidential Papers. Before the filming and indexing had been completed, further additions were received. Twelve letters written by Arthur in the 1850's were given by the noted collector, Charles A. Feinberg.
Another major segment of the Arthur Papers is available because of a friendship that began during the Civil War. Robert G. Dun and Chester A. Arthur were business associates and personal friends in New York City for at least a quarter of a century. Both were members of the Union League Club in New York. Arthur served as counsel for The Mercantile Agency, as Dun's company was called, for two decades. Fortunately for all who may interest themselves in the career of Arthur, Owen A. Sheffield, retired Secretary of Dun & Bradstreet, Inc., presented photocopies or typed copies accompanied by annotations, of all known documents in the files of the company relating to Arthur. The gift was made in 1959 with the consent and the cooperation of J. Wilson Newman, president of Dun & Bradstreet. Many of these documents have particular value. A letter written by Dun to the manager of his Pittsburgh office on June 1, 1870, for example, contains a spirited description of Arthur's character, written long before anyone guessed that he would be the 21st President of the United States.
Also in 1959, Robert S. Macfarlane, president of the Northern Pacific Railway, kindly supplied copies of several telegrams and related material which add to the records concerning Arthur's trip to Yellowstone Park in 1883. A few other documents and copies of documents complete one of the smallest of the 23 groups of Presidential Papers in the Library. The number of items is 1,413 and they are bound in 12 volumes. The microfilm reproduction of these was released to the public in 1960.
There remains the matter of the large number of lost Arthur manuscripts. Letters written by Arthur to others and preserved in their papers, together with copies of their letters to him, offer a sampling of what the Arthur Papers once contained. The photocopies of letters from the files of Dun & Bradstreet (Series 2) are useful for this purpose and so, to a lesser degree, are transcripts and references (Series 3) to Arthur papers in other collections.
An example may be cited of what is known to have existed. Arthur kept journals while on a trip with Henry D. Gardiner in 1857. The two young men spent 4 months touring the West as far as Kansas and Minnesota. Ward Burlingame, a Kansas newspaper reporter, interviewed Arthur 26 years later when he was about to depart for the West again, this time to Yellowstone Park. The published interview records all that has been found with reference to the journals: "The travels of the two extended over some four months, and the president could not recall, without access to his papers, packed away in his New York house, the names of all the places at which they stopped. By the way, it occurs to me that the complete journals of this trip, carefully kept by the principal traveler, would prove a veritable bonanza to the writer fortunate enough to get hold of them." [4]
Inasmuch as many of President Arthur's papers have been destroyed, searchers may wish to examine the personal papers of his contemporaries in the Library of Congress and elsewhere for information about him and his times. The personal papers or autograph collections in the Library of Congress listed below contain varying numbers of letters by, to, or relating to President Arthur: <list>American Academy of Arts and Letters
Bancroft-Bliss
Beecher, Henry W.
Blaine, James G.
Bristow, Benjamin H.
Chandler, William E.
Chandler, Zachariah
Cleveland, Grover
Conkling, Roscoe
Curry, J. L. M., Autograph Collection
Davis, J. C. Bancroft
Evarts, William M.
Fish, Hamilton
Garfield, James A.
Gresham, Walter Q.
Harrison, Benjamin
McCulloch, Hugh
Manning, Daniel
The Players Collection
Porter, Fitz-John
Root, Elihu
Schofield, John M.
Schurz, Carl
Sheridan, Philip H.
Sherman, John
Sherman, William T.
Taft, William H.
Toner, Joseph M., Autograph Collection
Whitney, William C.
Young, John Russell
Other libraries known to possess one or more Chester A. Arthur manuscripts include the New-York Historical Society in New York City, which has eight letterbooks dating from 1868 to 1878 and other materials dated for the most part prior to 1880; the New York State Library in Albany, which has nearly 200 items, for the most part in the Edwin D. Morgan Papers; the Boston Public Library; the William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich.; the Rutherford B. Hayes Library, Fremont, Ohio; the New Jersey Historical Society in Newark; the Southern Historical Collection of the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.; the Historical Society of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia; the United States Naval Academy Museum, Annapolis, Md.; and Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn. A Guide to Archives and Manuscripts in the United States, edited by Philip M. Hamer (New Haven, 1961), which includes entries indexed under "Presidents, U.S.," may lead a searcher to other Arthur manuscripts. The National Union Catalog of Manuscript Collections now being assembled at the Library of Congress also may eventually reveal the whereabouts of other Arthur manuscripts.
Note: The Library of Congress acknowledges with gratitude the assistance of Chester A. Arthur III, grandson of the President, and George F. Howe, the latter's biographer, each of whom read a draft of this essay and provided valuable comment and suggestions. Mr. Howe's interest goes back to 1926, when he selected President Arthur as the subject for his doctoral dissertation.
1. Except as specified, letters cited are in the files of the Manuscript Division.
2. June 26, 1924.
3. The Arthur collection, including the deposited documents, was evacuated to Charlottesville, Va., in 1941 and returned to the Library of Congress in 1944. A statement concerning this evacuation appears in Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress, 1945, p. 59. See also the article by Robert Penn Warren, "The War and the National Muniments," Library of Congress Quarterly Journal of Current Acquisitions, 2 (November 1944), 64-75.
4. Leavenworth [Kans.] Times, July 29, 1883; a shorter revised story appeared in the New York Times, August 1, 1883.
[From Index to the James Monroe Papers (Washington, D.C.: 1963), pp. v-xi]
When James Monroe retired from the Presidency on March 4, 1825, he returned to Oak Hill, his estate in Loudoun County, Va.[1] In the years that followed, his attempts to pay his debts and to better his financial condition must have required the steady use of a great many of the papers he had accumulated during his long years of public service, particularly those which could further the investigation of his accounts that he had asked Congress to make. Annotations on many of the papers give evidence that Monroe made some attempt to organize them; this was doubtless done during the years of his retirement.
To stimulate action by Congress he wrote a long paper on his "unsettled claims" in the summer of 1826 and sent it to Gales and Seaton in Washington for publication.[2] The following year he undertook the preparation of two additional papers which he hoped would raise money through sales. The first of these was a comparison of the Government of the United States with other, older, republics;[3] the second was his autobiography.[4]
Another means of raising money was suggested to him in correspondence with Nicholas P. Trist, who wrote him on January 27, 1828, from Monticello:
I suppose you have kept copies of all yr. letters to Mr. J[efferson].—There are among them numerous evid[en]ces of the pure disinterestedness of yr. course, & of the fact that in taking those steps wh. launched you irrevocably on the sea of public life, you were actuated solely by devotion to yr. country, to the well understood disparagemt. of yr. individual interests. That you may reap a reward somewhat commensurate with these sacrifices is with me more a wish than a hope. Will you permit me to ask however whether you cd. not at once avail yourself of the value of yr. papers, by pledging the proceeds of their future public[atio]n, in consid[eratio]n of a loan? If I mistake not, such a measure would be far from unexampled; wd. it be impracticable?
In Monroe's reply, on February 8, he wrote: "I have examined my papers, and find that I have, as I believe, all the letters, that were ever written to me by Mr. Jefferson. The first bears date in 1780, while I was reading the law under him. . . . I have copies, but I am satisfied, that I have not, of a fifth, of them I wrote him." He offered to send Jefferson's letters to Thomas Jefferson Randolph if he would be gratified to possess them, an offer that was apparently not accepted, and he added: "Your suggestion as to the sale of my papers, or pledge of them, merits attention."[5]
Monroe's study of republics and his autobiography were incomplete, and his claims before Congress were still unresolved, when Mrs. Monroe died in September 1830. Two months later financial difficulties and ill health forced him to leave Oak Hill and to make his home with his younger daughter, Maria, and her husband, Samuel L. Gouverneur, in New York City. The latter was acting as Monroe's agent in dealing with the several committees of Congress investigating his claims, and for this purpose Monroe had supplied his son-in-law with selections from his papers from time to time, as shown in letters exchanged by the two men. In addition to papers that might already have been in New York, it is reasonable to suppose that Monroe took with him when he left Virginia such papers as he would need to continue work on his autobiography. Nevertheless, an undetermined number of his papers were at Oak Hill when Monroe died in New York City on July 4, 1831.[6]
In his will, Samuel L. Gouverneur was named "sole and exclusive executor" and was asked to care for Monroe's older daughter Elizabeth, whose husband, Judge George Hay, had died the previous autumn. The Monroe papers were mentioned somewhat obliquely in the following provision: ". . . with respect to the works in which I am engaged and leave behind, I commit the care and publication of them to my son in law Samuel L. Gouvernieur [sic], giving to him one third of the profits arising therefrom for his trouble in preparing them for publication, one third to my daughter Maria and one third to my daughter Elizabeth."[7]
In the first month of Gouverneur's proprietorship of the papers, he lent a small number to John Quincy Adams, who was to deliver a eulogy to Monroe in Boston at the invitation of the city government. On July 19, Gouverneur wrote: "As a means of affording you all the interesting details of Mr. Monroe's early life, in the most ample form, and with the greatest precision, I have taken the liberty to enclose you the first 60 or 70 sheets of a sketch prepared by himself, & which together with all his other interesting papers, he entrusted to my special charge. . . . With the history of his life for the later years, you are well acquainted. He has left copious notes & a most extensive correspondence but he was prevented by death, from completing that portion of his career, even in the shape, which the present has assumed." Apparently he sent additional papers a week later, because Adams, in a letter of August 30, wrote that he was returning "the papers transmitted to me with your letter of the 26th. ulto." and added that "The manuscript of Mr. Monroe shall be returned in the course of a few days—By a private hand if an opportunity should present itself. Before the end of the week I hope to forward a printed Copy of the Eulogy."
Early the following year Richard Rush, writing from York, Pa., asked Gouverneur to return the personal letters he had written to Monroe while he was minister to England: "I wrote often to him, and with a freedom that would not have been justifiable in my public despatches. . . . It is on this account that I should be glad to have them in my possession, lest by any chances hereafter any portion of them should come to be mixed up with his manuscripts . . . and in that way run the risk of publicity." The nature of Gouverneur's reply is suggested by the next letter he received from Rush: "Its obliging sentiments . . . leave me no anxiety on the score of the private and confidential letters alluded to. . . . if any parts of them can, in the judgement of others, be made subsidiary to the better understanding of any of Mr. Monroe's services, there is no scruple even that I would not forego on my part; so much did I honor him as a statesman, revere him as a patriot, and love him as a man. At the same time the promise you are so good as to give that no use will be made of any paper from me without my approbation . . . is a relief."
Gouverneur was again reminded of his responsibilities as custodian of the Monroe papers three years later, when he received an anonymous letter written by "A Virginian" in "Alexandria, District of Columbia," on June 11, 1835: ". . . the character of your illustrious kinsman is already marked a victim for the sacrifice.
Let me implore you as you revere his name and reverence his memory—let me intreat you as patriot and an honorable man—let me caution you as you value your own reputation hold on to every scrap of writing that may be in your possession in any manner connected with his private or public life—preserve every paper that concerns him, for as you life [sic], if you respect his memory you will have use for them.
Apparently Gouverneur did some work toward preparing the papers for publication during the 1830's and a manuscript relating to Monroe, which he started to write, is said to have survived.[8] He was busy with other pursuits, however—he was Postmaster of New York City from 1828 to 1836 and part owner of the Bowery Theatre there—and he seems not to have found work on the Monroe papers a congenial occupation. Nevertheless there is no evidence that he was ready to accept the offer of help he received from Barnabus Bates of New York City, who, in a letter of February 13, 1839, agreed to prepare and publish a memoir on Monroe "upon terms which shall be mutually advantageous and satisfactory." Bates had heard through Commodore Charles Goodwin Ridgely, then in charge of the Navy Yard at New York, that Gouverneur possessed "a very interesting correspondence between Presdts. Jefferson and Monroe in relation to the Gun Boat system recommended by the former," and he suggested that Gouverneur "procure while in Virginia any papers necessary to accomplish the object."
In contrast Gouverneur took positive action in regard to the papers during the following decade.
Elizabeth Kortright Hay, Monroe's older daughter, died in 1840 and in the same year Samuel and Maria Gouverneur moved from New York City to Washington, where they lived in the De Menou buildings on H Street.[9] They also spent periods of each year at Oak Hill. Gouverneur worked in the Consular Bureau of the Department of State from 1844 to 1849, when he resigned because of the "afflicted state" of his family and because a promised advancement had not materialized.[10]
It must have been about the time he entered Government service that Gouverneur became acquainted with Henry O'Reilly (or O'Rielly, as he later spelled his name), a vigorous young man who had been editor of the Rochester Daily Advertiser in Rochester, N.Y., and who was active in many causes. According to a long, rather rambling memorandum O'Reilly wrote many years later, Gouverneur first tried to persuade him to occupy the farm at Oak Hill and to assist in disposing of the property, and later Gouverneur sought his help in connection with the Monroe papers: "In the course of our acquaintance Mr. Gouverneur suggested to me, without any solicitation on my part, that he & others wished me to take charge & control of the Ex-President's records & other Papers with a view to the Publication of A Selection from those papers along with a memoir of Mr. Monroe &c in case it should be found that a sale of the whole mass could not be made to the Government. . . .[11]
Gouverneur did indeed turn over to O'Reilly what appears to have been in the major part of the Monroe papers, probably in 1844 or 1845. In the latter year O'Reilly also entered into a contract with Samuel F. B. Morse and Amos Kendall to raise capital for telegraph lines from Eastern Pennsylvania to St. Louis and the Great Lakes, and his work in this connection must have left him little time to give to the Monroe papers. Even their exact location during the mid-1840's is uncertain although glancing references in some of his letters make it likely that O'Reilly deposited them somewhere in New York City while his work of erecting telegraph lines took him from place to place. Samuel L. Gouverneur himself seems not to have known where they were being stored. His concern is evident in a letter he wrote to O'Reilly on May 17, 1847, in which he also outlined terms for the treatment of the papers: "I should have written you before—but from the uncertainty where a letter would find you—I see by the papers (notices of arrivals, etc.) that you are in New York [actually this letter was forwarded to Philadelphia].
I propose in reply to yours that we should divide the proceeds—first deducting 1/8 to be allowed to the Estate of Mr. Monroe. This is on the supposition that the Heirs at law might expect something, & I should agree to fix the sum at that. I also wish it stipulated that the entire control of published matter in reference to Mr. Monroe should be vested in me—I mean that no papers should be published without my assent first had. This I consider just & right, especially as some matter might refer to questions of a personal or delicate nature. Let me have your reply to the above.
I hope you have the papers all in a place of perfect security as I value them very highly, & would be unwilling to run the risk of loss or accident to them—when will you be this way—I should be glad to have a talk with you. . . ."
Not having heard from O'Reilly, Gouverneur wrote again nearly five months later, on October 14, asking him to drop a line and "assure me
respecting which, I feel some anxiety, that all my papers, are safely deposited, where no accident can befall them." This letter apparently reached O'Reilly in Cincinnati, Ohio.[12]
The first and apparently only substantial use that was made of the Monroe Papers while they were in Gouverneur's custody occurred the following year. Gouverneur requested O'Reilly to make transcripts of a number of papers for Senator James D. Westcott, Jr., of Florida, and he himself lent the Senator a parcel of original manuscripts he had retained. The texts or references to these were incorporated in Westcott's speech of July 25, 1848, on the territorial government of Oregon.[13]
The stalemate on making effective arrangements to publish or sell the Monroe papers seems finally to have been broken in 1848. Doubtless an important factor in this matter was the purchase made by the Government that year of papers of James Madison (a second segment), of Alexander Hamilton, and of Thomas Jefferson. On December 14, Richard Smith, the executor of Elizabeth K. Hay's estate, agreed to accept one-eighth of the proceeds of any publication or sale (rather than the one-third share specified in James Monroe's will) provided the estate was exonerated from any costs connected with the transactions.[14] This was followed on December 28 by a formal agreement between Samuel L. Gouverneur and Henry O'Reilly, by which any profits resulting from publication of the papers would be divided so as to give three-eighths to O'Reilly, one-eighth to the estate of President Monroe, and four-eighths to Gouverneur. If, however, the papers were sold for not less than $20,000, O'Reilly was to get thirty percent of the proceeds and to pay one-third of this amount to Eliab Kingman and others assisting in the sale, while Gouverneur was to get the other seventy percent and to pay from this sum one-eighth of the entire proceeds to the estate of James Monroe.[15]
Upon completion of these arrangements Gouverneur addressed a petition to Congress on January 1, 1849, asking aid from the Government in publishing the manuscript papers of James Monroe.[16] Presented by Senator John A. Dix of New York on January 3, the petition was ordered to be printed and referred to the Committee on the Library.[17] Gouverneur apparently learned later that month that the Congress preferred to purchase the manuscripts rather than subscribe to their publication, and at this point O'Reilly, through an agent, formally relinquished his rights under the contract with Gouverneur so that the purchase could proceed without complication.[18] On February 28 the Senate, by a vote of 28 to 20, approved the purchase of the Monroe papers for $20,000. On March 2 the House concurred in an amendment proposed by the Committee of Ways and Means that the purchase be limited to papers not of a private character;[19] and on the following day it was enacted, as part of the act making appropriations for the civil and diplomatic expenses of Government for the year ending June 30, 1850, that "the manuscript books and papers of the late James Monroe" be purchased for the above amount and be deposited in the Department of State.[20] On March 13 Gouverneur signed an indenture of bargain and sale of "all the said Manuscript Books & Papers of the said James Monroe, together with all copyright, title, interest, property, claim & demand whatsoever of, in, and to the same," and on the same day the transaction was completed when Secretary of State John M. Clayton signed a receipt for the material and First Auditor William Collins signed a certificate that the sum of $20,000 was payable to Samuel L. Gouverneur as executor of the estate of James Monroe."[21]
Historian James Schouler was perhaps the first person to use the Monroe papers for historical research while they were in the Department of State. In 1882 he described them as "a huge mass of interesting matter relative to our earlier national history, which lies unassorted in the Department of State and for whose editorial supervision and publication it is to be fervently hoped that Congress will some day make suitable provision."[22]
This situation was rectified when Congress, by acts approved March 2, 1889, and August 30, 1890, appropriated money for the repair, mounting, and binding of the papers.[23] They were arranged in two chronological series (one comprising manuscripts by Monroe, the other manuscripts addressed or referred to him) and were bound in 22 volumes. A calendar of the papers, which reflected the two series but with entries arranged alphabetically by writer of each manuscript, was prepared and published by the Department of State in preliminary form in 1889 and in a corrected edition in 1893.[24] Seven years later the Librarian of the Department of State prepared a seven-volume unofficial edition of the writings of Monroe.[25]
As a result of an Executive Order of March 9, 1903, the Monroe Papers were transferred to the Library of Congress. The 22 volumes were received in the Manuscript Division on November 5, 1903, and were associated with two letterbooks (now designated as Series 3 of the papers), which had been acquired by the Library from an undetermined source some time before 1898.[26] Less than a year after their receipt, the Library published a chronological list of the papers which had been received by transfer (slightly more than 2,650 manuscripts), the items included in the letterbooks, and a few Monroe manuscripts located in other collections in the Library.[27]
At this point in the story it is necessary to consider the papers which were deemed to be of a "private character," and which were therefore retained by Samuel L. Gouverneur.
Maria Monroe Gouverneur died on June 20, 1850, at Oak Hill. She was survived by her husband and three children, a daughter Elizabeth and two sons, Samuel L. Gouverneur, Jr., and James Monroe Gouverneur. In 1852 Oak Hill, the former Monroe estate, was sold [28] and at some time during the following year Samuel L. Gouverneur married Mary Digges Lee, a granddaughter of Governor Thomas Sim Lee. The couple made their home at the Lee estate of Needwood, near Petersville, Md., and Gouverneur, who was presumably custodian of the remaining Monroe papers, died there on September 29, 1865.[29] His will, filed among records of the Orphan's Court of Frederick County, Md., shows that he bequeathed his entire estate to the second Mrs. Gouverneur.
Samuel L. Gouverneur, Jr., brought an action of replevin against Mrs. Mary Digges Lee Gouverneur in the Circuit Court of Frederick County in 1866 to recover his mothers' patrimony. The record of this case, which was decided in his favor in October 1868, shows that he sought the return of furniture, paintings, and other household ornaments. The Monroe papers were not mentioned.[30] One may assume, moreover, from the preface to his edition of Monroe's The People the Sovereigns (1867) that he had only this one manuscript from his grandfather's papers and that it had been in his possession for some years. Nevertheless, three years after his death in 1880, there appeared a published reference to an important segment of Monroe papers which were then in the possession of his widow, Mrs. Marian Campbell Gouverneur. [31] This lends credence to the family tradition that several hundred Monroe papers were found in secret compartments of the desk on which the address that incorporated the Monroe Doctrine was signed.[32]
Some time before 1889 these papers were deposited in the Department of State, where a calendar of them was prepared.[33] They had evidently been returned to Mrs. Gouverneur by 1892; Acting Secretary of State William F. Wharton referred to the "Gouverneur collection" as having been in her possession when he complied with a Senate request of February 3, 1892, for information about unpublished Monroe papers.[34]
Former President Rutherford B. Hayes called the attention of the Librarian of Congress to Mrs. Gouverneur's manuscripts in 1888[35] and on two occasions (in 1902 and from 1922 to 1927) the entire group was deposited in the Library with a view to purchase and for safekeeping. [36] Purchase was not effected.
Prior to the death of Mrs. Samuel L. Gouverneur, Jr., the "Gouverneur collection" of Monroe papers was given to her three daughters, Maud Campbell Gouverneur, Mrs. Rose Gouverneur Hoes, and Mrs. Ruth Monroe Johnson. It was kept as a unit until the death of Mrs. Hoes, after which a division was made. Mrs. Hoes' share was divided between her two sons, Gouverneur and Laurence Gouverneur Hoes, and the latter also was given the share inherited by his aunt, Maud C. Gouverneur. Mrs. Johnson gave her share to her son, Monroe Johnson.[37]
That portion of the "Gouverneur collection" which came into the possession of Laurence G. Hoes is now in the James Monroe Memorial Library in Fredericksburg, Va. He has generously allowed the Library to make photocopies of this group and these now comprise Series 2 of the Library's Monroe papers. The portion which had belonged to Major Gouverneur Hoes (205 manuscripts) was purchased by the Library from his widow, Mrs. Gourley Edwards Hoes, in 1950; these papers have been interfiled in the chronologically arranged Series 1, where they can be identified by the legend "Ac. 9405" on the lower left corner of the first page of each document. Of the one-third share of the original "Gouverneur collection" given to Monroe Johnson the Library purchased a total of 184 pieces from him in 1931 ("Ac. 4167A" appears on the first page of each of these manuscripts, filed in Series 1); and in 1932 Mr. Johnson deposited what was presumably the remainder of his holding of Monroe papers—95 manuscripts—in the Library of the College of William and Mary.
The Monroe papers that remained at Needwood when Samuel L. Gouverneur, Sr., died in 1865 became the property of his widow, Mrs. Mary Digges Lee Gouverneur. It has not been possible to determine the exact number of manuscripts that composed this segment, although there is evidence that it was considerably larger than the segment that formed the "Governeur collection."
Three months after Mrs. Gouverneur died at Needwood on October 4, 1898,[38] a part of the Monroe papers she owned was mentioned in correspondence between her nephew, John Lambert Cadwalader of New York, and the executor of her estate, Charles O'Donnell Lee of Baltimore,[39] Mrs. Gouverneur's nephew. On January 11, 1899, the former wrote:
. . . When the papers to which I referred in a previous letter, were received by me, now two or three years ago, I intended to have them examined by an expert, and there was some sort of an understanding that something should be done with them in so far as they were of a public character. One or two documents were given away with Mrs. Gouverneur's consent, not of any particular value, and I had it in mind to suggest to her some distribution of the papers in one or two public places, leaving, as she expressed it to me, some considerable part for yourself.
However nothing was done, nor were the papers during her lifetime ever entirely examined by any experts. I have since had the papers examined, through Dr. Billings, the Director of the New York Public Library, and I enclose his memorandum [in which the papers were valued at $750]. . . .
Of course, these papers, although a part of the papers of my uncle, Mr. Gouverneur, and which he received from Mr. Monroe, are, nevertheless, a part of Mrs. Gouverneur's estate, and I do not know what disposition you propose to make of them. Should you desire on behalf of Mrs. Gouverneur's estate to sell all of the papers, I would be glad to take them, so that Mr. Monroe's papers would find a proper resting place. . . .
Lee decided that as executor he should first examine the papers "in their relation to many more I have here," and they were returned to him for that purpose. After going over them, however, he decided to accept Cadwalader's offer and wrote on January 24 that he was returning the package "contents exactly as rec'd!" The latter presented them that year to the New York Public Library, of which he was a trustee. The manuscripts in the gift were estimated to number about 1,200.[40]
The "many more" papers Charles O'Donnell Lee retained are reported to have been divided into five portions, one going to each of the five Lee children who survived their parents. Two of the portions have since been acquired by Laurence Gouverneur Hoes, and the originals, like the other Monroe papers that he received, are now in the James Monroe Memorial Library and reproductions are in Series 2 of the Monroe Papers in the Library of Congress.
A number of important manuscripts that once were part of the Monroe Papers have at some time or times been separated from the segment retained by the family. Among these are Monroe's diary notes dating from March 1804 to May 1805 and his letterbook for the period from November 1804 to May 1805, which are now in the New York Public Library. [41] In addition to the two letterbooks mentioned above, the Library of Congress has acquired from various sources during this century, by purchase and gift, a volume containing Monroe's diary notes dating from June 1794 to July 1796 (with additional notes for 1801-2) and an account of his expenses from 1794 to 1802, as well as the recipients' copies of eighteen letters to Monroe and four brief memoranda in his hand.
The Library modified the arrangement of the Monroe Papers made by the Department of State by combining the two chronological series into one chronology (which included the segment acquired from Monroe Johnson in 1931) and the correspondence was rebound, in 37 volumes, in 1941.
As part of the Library's program to ensure safety of its most valuable manuscript holdings during World War II, the entire body of Monroe Papers was removed from Washington in December 1941 and stored in the Alderman Library of the University of Virginia until 1944, when the group was returned to Washington under the direction of Alvin W. Kremer, then Keeper of the Collections.[42]
During 1958-60 the arrangement of the manuscripts—which now number 3,821—was studied and perfected and a microfilm of the Monroe Papers in this arrangement was released in November 1960, so that greater accessibility of the material would be ensured.
Note: This essay was written by Mrs. Dorothy S. Eaton, Specialist in Early American History, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.
1. Grateful acknowledgement is made to Laurence Gouverneur Hoes, great-great-grandson of James Monroe, for information on family relationships and for clues to the location of Monroe papers; to James A. Servies, Librarian of the College of William and Mary, and to Paul Rugen, Assistant Chief of the Manuscript Division of the New York Public Library, for information on the Monroe papers in those institutions; and to Wilmer R. Leech, of the New-York Historical Society, and Miss Emma Swift, of the Rochester Public Library, for aid in examining the Henry O'Reilly papers in those repositories. Thanks are also due to Handy B. Fant of the National Historical Publications Commission and to Mrs. Julia Bland Carroll and Buford Rowland of the National Archives for their suggestions and assistance.
2. The "Memoir of James Monroe, Esq., relating to his Unsettled Claims upon the People and Government of the United States" was published in three parts in the National Intelligencer, beginning in the issue for November 15, 1826.
3. The People the Sovereigns, being a comparison of the Government of the United States with those of the Republics which have existed before, with the causes of their decadence and fall, by James Monroe, Ex-President of the United States, and dedicated by the author to his countrymen, edited by Samuel L. Gouverneur, [Jr.] his grandson and administrator (Philadelphia, 1867).
4. The Autobiography of James Monroe, edited by Stuart Gerry Brown (Syracuse, 1959). This was based on two long fragments of an unfinished manuscript in the Monroe Papers, New York Public Library.
5. A draft of Trist's letter and Monroe's reply are in a portfolio containing "Trist's recollections of conversations with Thomas Jefferson," in the Nicholas P. Trist Papers, Library of Congress.
6. See the statement Monroe signed on June 19, 1831, in regard to the John Rhea letter, in the James Monroe Papers, Library of Congress. Manuscripts quoted hereafter are in these papers, unless otherwise noted.
7. Will of James Monroe dated May 16, 1831, with a codicil dated June 17, 1831. The original documents are filed in records of the Orphan's Court, District of Columbia.
8. Statement made by Laurence Gouverneur Hoes.
9. Gouverneur, Marian, As I Remember: Recollections of American Society During the Nineteenth Century (New York and London, 1911), p. 257.
10. Gouverneur to Daniel Webster, March 21, 1851: Record Group 59 (box 34), National Archives. Also Gouverneur to John M. Clayton, May 17, 1849: RG 59 (Appointment Papers: Resignations and Declinations File), National Archives.
11. Memorandum written by an amanuensis and signed by O'Reilly in 1882. Henry O'Reilly Papers, New-York Historical Society.
12. The two Gouverneur letters are in the Henry O'Reilly Papers, New-York Historical Society. No reply has been located.
13. The Congressional Globe, 30th Cong., 1st Sess., Appendix, pp. 45-68. Correspondence relating to the transcription and loan of the manuscripts is in the O'Reilly Papers, New-York Historical Society.
14. Instrument filed with Miscellaneous Treasury Account No. 100,498, in Record Group 217, National Archives.
15. O'Reilly's duplicate, signed copy is in the O'Reilly Papers, New-York Historical Society.
16. 30th Cong., 2d Sess., Senate Misc. Doc. No. 10.
17. The Congressional Globe, 30th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 143.
18. Document signed by R. H. Gillet, agent, on [January] 31, 1849, in the Henry O'Reilly Papers, New-York Historical Society.
19. The Congressional Globe, 30th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 613 and 669.
20. Statutes at Large, IX, 370.
21. Department of State, Miscellaneous Letters, Mar.-Apr. 1849, National Archives; and Miscellaneous Treasury Account No. 100,498, Record Group 217, National Archives. It is unnecessary to report here on the protracted suit brought in the courts of the District of Columbia by Richard Smith to recover one-third instead of one-eighth of the proceeds for the estate of Mrs. Elizabeth K. Hay. Several documents relating to this are in the Henry Mason Morfit Papers, Library of Congress.
22. Schouler, James, History of the United States Under the Constitution, II (New York, 1882), p. iii.
23. Statutes at Large, XXV, 957; and XXVI, 388.
24. Bulletin of the Bureau of Rolls and Library of the Department of State, No. 2, November, 1893 (Washington, 1893).
25. The Writings of James Monroe, including a collection of his public and private papers and correspondence now for the first time printed, edited by Stanislaus Murray Hamilton (New York and London, 1898-1903).
26. Friedenwald, Herbert, "Historical Manuscripts in the Library of Congress" in Annual Report of the American Historical Association for the Year 1898 (Washington, 1899).
27. Papers of James Monroe listed in chronological order from the original manuscripts in the Library of Congress, by Worthington Chauncey Ford, comp. (Washington, 1904).
28. Williams, Harrison, Legends of Loudoun: An account of the history and homes of a border county of Virginia's Northern Neck, (Richmond, 1938), p. 178.
29. The Sun (Baltimore) October 9, 1865.
30. Samuel L. Gouverneur, Jr., vs. Mary D. Gouverneur, in files of the Circuit Court of Frederick County, Md., October 1868.
31. Gilman, Daniel C., James Monroe in His Relations to the Public Service During the Half Century, 1776 to 1826 (Boston and New York, 1883), p. vi.
32. This desk is now in the James Monroe Law Office Museum and Memorial Library in Fredericksburg, Va.
33. Narrative and Critical History of America, edited by Justin Winsor, (Boston and New York, 1889), VIII, 421. A 17-page printing of the Monroe writings in this group (in which the owner is incorrectly identified as Mrs. S. M. Gouverneur), and sheets on which are mounted calendar entries, on cards, of the papers addressed to Monroe, were transferred to the Library and are shelved with the Monroe Collection in the Manuscript Division. The "Gouverneur Collection" is shown by these to have numbered 837 manuscripts.
34. Senate Journal, 52d Cong., 1st Sess., p. 91; William F. Wharton to Benjamin Harrison, March 17, 1892, in Senate Executive Documents, 52d Cong., 1st Sess., Executive Doc. No. 62.
35. Rutherford B. Hayes to Ainsworth R. Spofford, June 4, 1888, Spofford Papers (Ac. 10,705), Library of Congress.
36. Library of Congress archives: memorandum, Worthington C. Ford to the Librarian, October 13, 1902; and F. W. Ashley to Chiefs of Divisions of Accessions and Manuscripts, December 16, 1927.
37. Statement made by Laurence Gouverneur Hoes.
38. The Sun (Baltimore), October 5, 1898.
39. Box 1, James Monroe Papers, New York Public Library.
40. This gift was described in issues of the Bulletin of the New York Public Library for October 1899, February 1900, and July 1901.
41. Bulletin of the New York Public Library, February 1915.
42. A statement concerning the evacuation appears in Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress, 1945, p. 59.
On September 12, 2001, the American Folklife Center at the Library of Congress sent a notice to folklorists and ethnographers across the nation asking them to record on audiotape the thoughts and feelings expressed by individuals and communities following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. The project was developed by Ann Hoog, who collaborated with American Folklife Center Director Peggy Bulger in the original call for participation. Materials were mailed to the Library of Congress beginning in September 2001. The collection reflects the regional, ethnic, socioeconomic, and political diversity of Americans at the time of the September 11 attacks.
The collection comprises 8980 items: 8100 manuscript materials; 386 sound recordings (SR); 421 graphic and photographic materials (GR and PH); 20 moving images (MV); 15 electronic media (CF); and 38 artifacts (AR). There are twelve boxes of manuscript materials divided into seven categories: Administrative Materials, Participant Documentation, Unpublished Writings, Reports, Published Works, Internet Folklore, Clippings and Online Articles. These include printout of e-mails, ephemera (from various internet web sites), posters, newspaper articles, personal essays, narratives, children's drawings, and other miscellaneous items that were left at the various memorials.
The Participant Documentation series is arranged in sub-folders (a paper folder within an archival folder) according to the participants' last names and the ID numbers of the materials which pertain to the documentation. This arrangement ensures that the interviewer and the interviewee, and the primary materials (sound recording, photographic images, etc.) are readily identifiable. In some cases, there is no documentation accompanying a specific sound recording, photograph, or other type of medium. Therefore, in some sub-folders there is a "?" after the SR number. This indicates that the documentation most likely goes with that SR number, but the name on the form has not been linked definitively with that particular sound recording. There is a folder entitled "Participant Documentation (Michigan)." Originally there were no tapes accompanying the forms from Michigan State University (MSU). A few irradiated tapes were found which were subsequently linked to Michigan State University (MSU), but could only be identified and not played because of the extensive damage done to the tapes by the irradiation process. The participant documentation is also divided into "originals" and "photocopies" (as there was no way to verify which items had been irradiated, all the documentation was photocopied). All photocopied materials can be served to readers.
There are twenty-two accounts of personal narratives and eleven poetic works within the Unpublished Writings subseries, and they are arranged chronologically. These accounts are the personal experiences of the writers on the day or days following September 11, 2001. Other accounts recall events in the authors' lives months after the attacks.
The Reports subseries consists of school projects that were submitted by several institutions such as Hunter College, Colorado College, and California State University. Each project was approached differently followed prescribed guidelines, which were to capture the thoughts and feelings expressed by the American people in the aftermath of September 11. For example, California State University presented its response in the form of a research project which incorporated the use of posters, overheads, cartoons, and newspaper clippings. The students at Colorado College, on the other hand, wrote term papers based on the interviews they conducted.
The Published Works subseries consists of written articles and statements referring to the events and reactions to the attacks of September 11. The works include excerpts from the Congressional Record, press releases, photographs, flyers, brochures, and other ephemera.
The Internet Folklore section is a compilation of Internet sites that comment on the events of September 11, through humor, images, memorials, legends, and Internet warnings.
The Clippings and Online Articles subseries includes most of the California State University at Chico reports, which contain a large number of newspaper clippings. These clippings are included here and cross-referenced with the reports.
Note that the manuscript materials include database printouts that capture information about sound recordings, graphic and photographic materials, moving images, electronic media, and artifacts, all of which are available on hard copy and on a zip disk located in Box 1, Folder 2.
The Sound Recordings series includes interviews with people who were in the World Trade Center and the Pentagon during the attacks, and also people living in East Sullivan, Maine; Des Moines, Iowa; Los Angeles, California, and many other towns and cities -- small and large -- across the country. Twenty-eight states are represented. The collection includes interviews with teachers and students from elementary to graduate school; police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers; secretaries, executives, librarians, city officials, and people whose families have lived in the United States for generations as well as those recently arrived.
There are approximately 200 interviews from New York City and Arlington, Virginia, but the majority of the interviews in the collection was gathered from other parts of the country. The content of the interviews include views on international relations, politics, economics, patriotism, charity efforts, fears of flying, prejudices, and how relationships were changed by the events of September 11, 2001.
The total number of sound recordings given in the Concordance is accurate as of 2005. Additional items may be added. All of the sound recordings have been duplicated.
The sound recordings database is available in the Folklife Reading Room organized by SR number and alphabetically by the interviewer's last name. The recordings are arranged alphabetically by state, institution of affiliation, interviewer's last name, and interviewee's last name. Using the "find" option in Access, researchers should be able to find a specific sound recording easily. A few sound recordings were added to the collection after the numbering arrangement was completed so the last recording, SR386, is not the final recording. The sound recordings were numbered consecutively regardless of format. Hence, the compact discs are not in sequence. Although the collection of audio recordings was the primary goal of this project, some people documented their community's reactions in photographs. Therefore, this collection also includes photographic documentation of some of the spontaneous memorial tributes created near the Pentagon, and in other parts of the country. These memorials, sign boards, and decorations all reflect the public discourse regarding the events. Candles and flowers, written messages and drawings from children, flags and other items, collectively express the grief and solidarity of individuals and businesses. The American Folklife Center (AFC) staff took photographs of memorials at Arlington Cemetery and near the Pentagon. The American Folklife Center (AFC) also received images from places such as Marietta, Georgia; Knoxville, Tennessee; and Las Vegas, Nevada. The digital graphic images are housed with the electronic media.
Moving Images are arranged alphabetically by state and institution of affiliation. The Moving Image series includes interviews and patriotic songs pertaining to September 11, 2001.
Artifacts are organized by format and institution of affiliation. The artifact collection consists of materials that were gathered from a temporary memorial site in Knoxville, Tennessee or collected as part of a project. They include flags, posters, copper signs, and a sample of the irradiated tapes.
Contains sound-recordings database, graphic-materials database, moving-images database, electronic-media database, and artifacts database.
Sound recordings organized by ID number (printed copy).
Sound recordings organized alphabetically by the interviewers' last names (printed copy).
(printed copy).
(printed copy).
(printed copy).
(printed copy).
Includes a printout of the original call for participation and sample release forms.
E-mail requests for information about the September 11, 2001 Documentary Project Collection.
Report by Molly J. Barnard. See also graphic materials in Boxes 34-37.
Report by Andrew Carroll-Perdue.
Report by Michael Reinschmidt. See also clippings/online article in Box 12.
Report by Juan Valdes. See also clippings/online articles, graphic materials in Boxes 12, 34-37.
Report by Laura Crisera.
Report by Ellie Hoecker.
Report by Laura Jansen.
Report by Ann Kaplan.
Report by Ted McClure.
Report by Katy Meehan.
Report by Derek Schoonmaker.
Report by Jenni Skyler.
Report by Jarrod Weber.
Contains a press release, administrative information and a list of materials that were a part of "The Wall of Unity, a temporary memorial park. It was the creation of a group of local artists and developers in Knoxville, Tennessee.
Clippings about the September 11, 2001 Documentary Project.
A magazine published by a private firm in colloboration with the Naples Military Community. Sent in by Scott E. George (See SR382-385).
Sent in by Michael Reinschmidt. See Reports subseries in Manuscripts.
Sent in by Juan Valdes. See Reports subseries in Manuscripts.
Sent in by Karen Brown of California State University, Chico students. See Reports subseries in Manuscripts and oversize Box 38 for original newspaper print.
Sent in by Karen Brown of California State University, Chico students. See Reports subseries in Manuscripts and see oversize Box 38 for original newspaper print.
*Disc is a digital sound recording
See also: Negatives (PH006-037)
See also: Contact sheets (PH001-005)
See Electronic Media: Folder 142 (PH201-282), Folder 133 (PH283-334), Box 37 (PH335/GR01), Folder 117 (PH336-343), Folder 144 (PH402)
See Box 48 See also Contact sheets: (PH364-368; PH371; PH373-376; PH382; PH384; PH392-393; PH396-398)
See also Photographs (PH344-363)
See Box 48 See also Contact sheet: (PH005)
(See map folder in Reading Room for GR16)
See Box 1
Bumper stickers
Scrapbook from Children International- Chile
Scrapbook from Children International-Asia
Book of condolences from Hillside Funeral Home, Kansas
Engraved copper plates that were taken to the memorial site. Donated by the Knoxville Writers' Guild, Tennessee
Plastic flag donated by the Knoxville Writers' Guild, Tennessee (See oversize Box 38).
Small card
Poem entitled, "The Aftermath"
Red and blue ribbons
Poem, "I am persuaded..."
Newspaper printed in French from Quebec
Paper advertisement about Osama Bin Laden, "Have you Seen Me?"
American flag made of sequins (hand made)
American flag
Audiocassettes AR24-AR33 and floppy discs AR34-AR37 Note: These are irradiated objects.
The correspondence between Ken Lindsay and Woody Guthrie began in 1952, while Lindsay was responsible for the mail order record department at the International Bookshop on Charing Cross Road in London, England. Lindsay first wrote to Guthrie encouraging him to write and record material for the European market. Although the recording projects and the European tours discussed in their letters never materialized, this correspondence (1952-1953) captures the development of a special relationship between two men who never met, but shared a passion for music. The correspondence also provides a glimpse at the creative flair and the personal challenges that shaped this period of Guthrie's life.
In his letters to Lindsay, Guthrie discusses music, politics, and family relationships and reveals his struggle with alcoholism and the disease that claimed his life, Huntington's chorea. The letters also document Guthrie's whereabouts during these years as he writes from Brooklyn, New York; Jacksonville, Florida; and Topanga, California. Additionally, there is correspondence from Guthrie's second and third wives, Marjorie Mazia Guthrie and Anneke Van Kirk, who communicate details about Guthrie's personal health and professional endeavors to Lindsay. Letters MS01, MS03, MS04, and MS24 are even embellished with sketches made by Guthrie and Anneke Van Kirk.
Interestingly, Guthrie concluded many of his letters with the number "30." This symbol is often found at the closing of a press release and is believed to have descended from the practice of typing "XXX" at the conclusion of telegraph transmissions during the Civil War.
There are fifteen letters written by Ken Lindsay, seven written by Woody Guthrie, two written by Marjorie Guthrie (Guthrie's second wife), and two written by Anneke Van Kirk (Guthrie's third wife). In addition to the letters, there are four pages of song lyrics written by Woody Guthrie that he sent to Ken Lindsay with his letters. Some of the letters and song lyrics are embellished with drawings. The letters written by Ken Lindsay are carbon copies that Lindsay kept of his original letters.
MS01.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS01.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS01.03 [leaf 2, recto]
MS01.04 [leaf 2, verso]
MS02.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS02.02 [leaf 2, recto]
[EMPTY FOLDER: See Oversized Box 2 of 2, Folder 31]
[EMPTY FOLDER: See Oversized Box 2 of 2, Folder 31]
[EMPTY FOLDER: See Oversized Box 2 of 2, Folder 31]
MS06.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS06.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS06.03 [leaf 2, recto]
MS07.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS08.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS09.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS09.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS10.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS11.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS12.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS13.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS13.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS14.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS15.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS16.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS16.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS17.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS18.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS18.02 [leaf 2, recto]
MS19.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS19.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS20.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS20.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS21.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS21.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS22.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS23.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS24.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS24.02 [leaf 2, recto]
MS25.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS25.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS26.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS26.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS27.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS27.02 [leaf 1, verso]
MS28.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS29.01 [leaf 1, recto]
Song lyrics, "Un Americans," by Woody Guthrie sent to Ken Lindsay. 1 leaf.
MS03.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS03.02 [leaf 1, verso]
Song lyrics, "Sunny Sun Sun," by Woody Guthrie sent to Ken Lindsay. 1 leaf.
MS04.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS04.02 [leaf 1, verso]
Song lyrics, "Love Says No," by Woody Guthrie sent to Ken Lindsay. 1 leaf.
MS05.01 [leaf 1, recto]
MS05.02 [leaf 1, verso]
Italian-Americans in the West Project Collection contains the sound recordings, photographs, video recordings, fieldnotes, publications, ephemera, and accompanying manuscript materials associated with the American Folklife Center's Italian-Americans in the West project. This project was part of the Center's commemoration of the 500th anniversary of the voyage of Christopher Columbus, which was an element of a larger program on the Quincentenary sponsored by the Library of Congress. The purpose of the three-year field research project was to document aspects of traditional cultural expression of Italian Americans in the western United States.
Field research conducted from 1989 through 1991 was directed by Center folklife staff. During the course of the field research, teams of folklife researchers explored the ways Italian Americans have defined their identity as a cultural group in the past and present. Subject areas studied included public and private aspects of expression, foodways, occupations, festivals, and vernacular architecture. Multiple research sites afforded the opportunity to map cultural intersections of ethnic and regional history. The sites were chosen on the basis of cultural and economic definitions of the West, in communities where Italian Americans have long been associated with the distinctive economies of the regions. Fieldwork took place in the agricultural community of Gilroy, California; the commercial fishing town of San Pedro, California; the steel mill town of Pueblo, Colorado; several small mining and ranching communities in eastern and central Nevada; several mining towns in Carbon County, Utah; and the agricultural region of Walla Walla, Washington.
The field research resulted in a large quantity of multi-format documentation that constitutes the bulk of this collection. Other products from the project include the book, Old Ties, New Attachments: Italian-American Folklife in the West, edited by David A. Taylor and John Alexander Williams (1992), and a traveling exhibition of the same name. The exhibition curator was I. Sheldon Posen, who was assisted by Center staff member Camila Bryce-Laporte and several contractors including Anne Bowman, Victoria Brown, and Robin Fanslow. The exhibit opened at the De Saisset Museum in Santa Clara, California, on October 12, 1992, and the traveled to: The Nevada Museum of Art, Reno, Nevada; The Gene Autry Western Heritage Museum, Los Angeles, California; The Museums at Stony Brook, Stony Brook, New York; and the Library of Congress, Washington, D.C.
The manuscript materials provide supporting documentation for the entire project. Included are archival administrative materials such as log status reports that indicate the availability of reference copies, missing original items, electronic versions of documents, and so forth. Documents pertaining to the planning, administration, and promotion of the project are found in this series. Also included are fieldnotes, graphic material logs, sound recording logs, and video recording logs. This series also contains reports on the project and information on the book of collected essays. Finally, this series includes various publications such as books, articles, and periodicals as well as ephemera (e.g., newspaper clippings and maps) that provide background information on Italian-Americans in the western United States.
A description of the project's electronic files, their arrangement and location.
Tables that note the status of individual logs for formatted materials (sound recordings, graphic materials, and manuscripts) by fieldworker and location (diskette, database, and printout).
Tables (listed by fieldworker) that note the status of individual audiocassettes and reel-to-reel tapes, such as the existence of the original and reference copies and hard-copy logs.
Tables (listed by fieldworker) that note the status of individual black-and-white rolls, contact sheets, color slides, color internegatives, and color negatives.
Table (listed by fieldworker) that notes the status of individual videotapes, including the existence of original and reference copies and related hard-copy logs.
Alphabetized list of searchable terms used in the IAW ASKSAM database.
Preliminary box list, preliminary inventory, and other documentation related to the processing of this collection.
Information on the initial processing of this collection.
Draft project budgets, supplies and shipping receipts, and travel documentation.
Blank forms and signed duplicates of informant release forms.
General project correspondence dated between 1988 and 1990, arranged chronologically.
Original release forms signed by informants, arranged alphabetically by project site.
Original release forms signed by informants, arranged alphabetically by project site.
Correspondence between project personnel and informants, arranged alphabetically by project site.
Newspaper clippings, biographical information, and miscellaneous documentation related to informants, arranged alphabetically by project site.
Numerous copies of lists of informants' addresses. Note: Gift photographs from informants are located with the graphic materials in Box 87.
Correspondence and contract information, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker/consultant.
Correspondence and contract information, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker/consultant.
Correspondence and contract information, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker/consultant.
Articles, brochures, fliers, news clippings and press releases concerning the Italian-Americans in the West project and other Columbian Quincentenary projects of the Library of Congress.
Printouts of directories of reference computer diskettes containing project files. Diskettes arranged alphabetically by fieldworker. For more information, see Diskette Status Reports in folder 2.
Fieldworkers' notes concerning daily activities during the project, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then chronologically. For more information, see Fieldnotes Status Report in folder 3.
Notebooks, sketch pads, and loose pages of notes and drawings made by fieldworkers during the project. Arranged alphabetically by fieldworker.
Notebooks, sketch pads, and loose pages of notes and drawings made by fieldworkers during the project. Arranged alphabetically by fieldworker.
Summaries of cassette and reel-to-reel recordings of interviews, music, and events, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by log number. For more information, see Audiocassette and Reel-to-Reel Logs Status Reports in folder 3.
Descriptions of black-and-white photos taken during the project, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by roll number. For more information, see Black-and-White Photograph Log Status Report in folder 3.
Descriptions of color slides taken during the project, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by slide sheet number. For more information, see Color Slide Log Status Report in folder 3.
Descriptions of videotapes taken during the project or donated to the project by informants, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker.
Interim, final, and post-project reports. Arranged alphabetically by author (fieldworker), and then alphabetically by report title.
Materials concerning Old Ties, New Attachments: Italian-American Folklife in the West. Includes a copy of the book, correspondence with contributors, essay proposals, publicity materials, and purchase requisitions.
Publicity and background materials describing the exhibition, "Old Ties, New Attachments: Italian-American Folklife in the West." For more information, see Series V.
Books, periodicals, journals, and articles about project sites collected as background information. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
Books, periodicals, journals, and articles about project sites collected as background information. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
Books, periodicals, journals, and articles about project sites collected as background information. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
Newspaper clippings, maps, unpublished manuscripts, and other materials collected during the project. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
Newspaper clippings, maps, unpublished manuscripts, and other materials collected during the project. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
Newspaper clippings, maps, unpublished manuscripts, and other materials collected during the project. Arranged alphabetically by project site.
65 computer diskettes consist of original and reference disks that contain original files and reference copies of those files. The reference copies have been rearranged for better access. The diskettes contain the documentation from the fieldwork as well as administrative files. Printed directories of each disk can be found in Box 103 which contains 60 additional diskettes with digital images.
Project documentation in electronic format (WordPerfect 5.1). 32 3.5-inch and 24 5.25-inch original disks containing original files and 18 3.5-inch reference disks containing copies of original files rearranged in a more logical order. Includes one disk that contains files of AFC administrative materials. Note: Additional diskettes are located in Box 103. The reference disks are arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and the files on the disks are arranged by fieldworker and then by document type. The original disks are arranged in numerical order. For more information, see Disk Directories in folders 58-59.
This series includes more than 500 original and reference copies of reel-to-reel and audiocassette field recordings. They consist predominantly of interviews with informants. Logs that describe the content of the recordings can be found in Series I.
65 reel-to-reel tapes of interviews, music, and events, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by tape number. Reference copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room. For more information, see Sound Recording Logs in folders 89-105.
233 audiocassette tapes of interviews, music, and events, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by tape number. Reference copies are available in the Folkife Reading Room. For more information, see Sound Recording Logs in folders 89-105.
Close to 25,000 images document the project's fieldwork. They include black and white negative rolls, contact sheets, color slides, negatives, and photographic prints. Logs describing the content of the field photographs are in Series I. There are more than 40 videocassettes that document a variety of festivals and events that took place in some of the Italian-American communities studied. Logs describing the content of some of these videos can be found in Series I.
Approximately 554 black-and-white negative rolls (16,450 images) taken by fieldworkers during the project, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by roll number. For more information, see Black-and-White Photo Logs in folders 106-123. Contact sheets are also available through the Folklife Reading Room.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Tom Carter. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Tom Carter. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Doug DeNatale. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Doug DeNatale. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Russell Frank. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Russell Frank. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Andrea Graham. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Andrea Graham. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Ken Light. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Jens Lund. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Jens Lund. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Jens Lund. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Paula Manini. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Philip F. Notarianni. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Blanton Owen. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Blanton Owen. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Blanton Owen. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Blanton Owen. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Valerie Parks. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Steve Siporin. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Steve Siporin. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Steve Siporin. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Paola Tavarelli. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, David Taylor. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, David Taylor. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, David Taylor. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, David Taylor. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, John Williams. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
Color slides taken by project fieldworker, Myron Wood. For content details, see Color Slide Logs in folders 124-140.
29 color negatives that are duplicates of color slides, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by sheet number. For more information, see Color Slide Log Status Report in folder 5.
Color negative rolls taken by fieldworkers during the project, arranged alphabetically by fieldworker and then numerically by sheet number.
45 color prints of various sizes and 2 negative rolls of the 1992 Columbus Day Parade in San Francisco, taken by John Williams.
Color photographs and slides taken by informants and donated to the Folklife Center, arranged alphabetically by project site.
21 videos taken by fieldworkers or informants, arranged alphabetically by item identifier. Reference copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room. For more information, see Videotape Logs in folders 141-145.
Mary Jean Porter, "Library of Congress team studying Pueblo's Italians," The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO), July 5, 1990.
Dave Socier, "It's another I-Opening weekend ahead for golf," The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO), July 12, 1990. Dave Socier, "No mirage: Red-white-green flag waves at Italian Open," Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO), July 15, 1990.
Tracey White, "Italian-American heritage intrigues research team," The Dispatch (Gilroy, CA), September 4, 1989.
Karen Vigil, "Tragedy narrowly averted in I-25 accident," Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, CO), July 7, 1990.
Extra copies of some black-and-white contact sheets and color slides. Note: Duplicate prints of many of the fieldwork graphics are located with the exhibit graphic materials in Binders 5-20.
Extra copies of some black-and-white contact sheets and color slides. Note: Duplicate prints of many of the fieldwork graphics are located with the exhibit graphic materials in Binders 5-20.
Multi-format materials related to the administration, development, and installation of the traveling exhibit, "Old Ties, New Attachments: Italian-American Folklife in the West" are found in this series. It includes manuscript and print materials, graphic materials, moving image materials, and artifacts. The exhibit itself is documented through audio scripts, label texts, photographs, and videotape.
Arranged alphabetically by subject. Includes correspondence, public relations materials (i.e., newspaper clippings, brochures, fliers), and photograph sources. Informants' files, arranged alphabetically by informant, contain information related to artifact loans. Site information, arranged alphabetically by exhibit site, contains public relations and correspondence concerning the installation and openings of the exhibit at different locations. Note: Materials such as purchase orders, contracts, fundraising documents, budget information, and related correspondence are located in Box 104.
Continued. See above.
Continued. See above.
Continued. See above.
Arranged alphabetically by subject. Contains papers related to the development, installation, and maintenance of the exhibit. Includes materials on the design concept as well as story stations and audio scripts, labels, video logs, artifact and photograph lists, artifact condition reports, and a multimedia installation manual. (The multimedia storytelling electronic files are duplicated on the AFC file server.)
Arranged alphabetically by subject. Contains papers related to the development, installation, and maintenance of the exhibit. Includes materials on the design concept as well as story stations and audio scripts, labels, video logs, artifact and photograph lists, artifact condition reports, and a multimedia installation manual. (The multimedia storytelling electronic files are duplicated on the AFC file server.)
(No folder numbers.)
Photographic materials. Black-and-white and color negatives, contact sheets, prints, and slides. Some of these materials are duplicates of fieldwork documentation; others document the artifacts and the exhibit. Most of the prints depict artifacts used or considered for use in the exhibition. Included also are miscellaneous materials used in the development of the exhibit.
Videotape. One 1/2 inch videotape documenting the exhibit after it was installed at the Library of Congress. Videotaped by Peter Bartis.
Miscellaneous items used in the exhibit that represent Italian American culture such as buttons, calendars, cloth patches, publications, and wine labels.
The IAW Image Backups are on 3.5-inch diskettes, housed in 5 diskette boxes within one manuscript box.
Diskette Box 1: Day 1, Box 1 of 1, IAW Image Backups, 14 Disks
Diskette Box 2: Day 2, Box 1 of 2, IAW Image Backups, 10 Disks
Diskette Box 3: Day 2, Box 2 of 2, IAW Image Backups, 11 disks
Diskette Box 4: Day 3, Box 1 of 2, IAW Image Backups, 14 disks
Diskette Box 5: Day 3, Box 2 of 2, IAW Image Backups, 11 disks
The collection consists of twelve rugs hooked with hand-dyed wool on 12-thread-count linen titled the Tell Me ‘Bout Series created by Mary Sheppard Burton from Germantown, Maryland. The rugs, which were created between 1993 and 2005, depict stories of rural life and historical events experienced by different members of Burton’s family. These stories, some of which have been passed down for generations, include scenes of life on the Chesapeake Bay and surrounding areas in Maryland. Burton retold this family history as bedtime stories for her four children. She designed and made this series of hooked rugs which artistically retold the stories. Color photographs of Mary Sheppard Burton with American Folklife Center director Peggy A. Bulger were taken by David A. Taylor in 2006. Burton was interviewed at her home by Theadocia Austen and Carl Lindahl, circa 2001. During the interview Burton gave a tour of her house, describing the history of the various rooms and the many pieces of art on display throughout her house.
Mary Sheppard Burton. Undated. 6 pages.
Photographs taken by David A. Taylor on March 2, 2006. 25 color photographs, 25 color negatives.
The rug displays an image of Mary Sheppard Burton’s grandfather, Edward Sampson Phipps, skating across the Chesapeake Bay. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1993-1994. Dimensions: 45 x 69 inches.
The rug displays an image of Edward Sampson Phipps, Mary Sheppard Burton’s grandfather, who dove into the Susquehanna River retrieving the tools that had been dropped into the river by the workmen who were constructing the bridge above the river. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1993. Dimensions: 46.5 x 32.5 inches.
The rug displays an image of Alice Phipps, Mary Sheppard Burton’s mother, in a tree with an apple and reading a book. This was her mother’s secret place. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1994. Dimensions: 43.75 x 52.25 inches.
The rug depicts images from the town of Pittsville, Maryland, where Burton’s father John Raymond Sheppard grew up. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1994-1995. Dimensions: 62 x 43 inches.
The rug depicts the image of a two-year-old Charles Burton, Mary Sheppard Burton’s husband, head first in the snow. He was accidently given grape wine instead of grape juice. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1995. Dimensions: 44.25 x 33 inches.
The rug displays the image of Alice Phipps, Burton’s mother, as she flew upside down in a plane in a bushel basket hat. The rug also displays the image of the hat as it falls from the sky. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1996. Dimensions: 49.5 x 59.5 inches.
The rug displays Charles Burton, Mary’s Sheppard Burton’s husband, as he climbed a tree to witness the inauguration of Herbert Hoover. The rug also displays images of chickens and roosters. The rug refers to Hoover’s famous promise of “a chicken in every pot.” Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1996. Dimensions: 66 x 44 inches.
The rug depicts images of men on horses at Sycamore Hollow in Montgomery County, Maryland. In the center Burton weaves a landmark barn which dates back to 1838. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1998. Dimensions: 66 x 44 inches.
Nellie Blaine Lankford was Mary Sheppard Burton’s mother-in-law. The rug depicts the images of Nellie and her sister Anna in Tyaskin, Maryland. The two would feed the chickens kernels that were attached to the end of a fishing line. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1999. Dimensions: 39 x 46 inches.
Alice Phipps, Mary Sheppard Burton’s mother, would deliver food to the sick. This rug shows Alice on a bike along with other landmarks in Salisbury, Maryland. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 1999. Dimensions: 42 x 58 inches.
Richard Dale, a relative of Mary Sheppard Burton, is depicted steering a sailboat on the Maryland coast. Richard Dale fought against pirates and also assisted in defending the island of Bermuda against the British. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 2000. Dimensions: 19.25 x 34.5 inches.
The rug depicts images of the Model A Ford, along with pigs on a farm and a little girl who represents Mary Sheppard Burton’s mother. Tell Me ‘Bout Series, 2005. Dimensions: 44.2 x 31 inches.
Interview with Mary Sheppard Burton at her home in Germantown, Md. Undated. 1 VHS videocassette.
Interview with Mary Sheppard Burton at her home in Germantown, Md. Undated. 1 VHS videotape.
Interview with Mary Sheppard Burton at her home in Germantown, Md. Undated 1 VHS videotape. [Unplayable - Damaged]
The 1979 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, audio recordings, and graphic materials that document the 1979 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between April and September. The 1979 series was produced with the assistance of the National Council for the Traditional Arts.
The 1979 season consisted of the following:
April 27 Don Stover Maryland Interview*
May 31 Eugene O'Donnell and Mick Moloney Pennsylvania Irish music
June 28 Hazel Dickens and Don Stover District of Columbia Old-time music
July 26 Louisiana Aces Louisiana Cajun music
August 30 Melecio Martinez Illinois Mexican harp music
September 27 Burke Family Maryland Gospel music
*Concert cancelled due to inclement weather. Instead, an interview with Stover was recorded on audio.
The collection guide (this document) and an article about the concert series.
Flier, news clippings, and identification of people in photos on contact sheets.
News clippings.
News clippings.
News clippings and identification of people in photos on contact sheet.
Flier, press releases, news clippings, photocopy of resume of Martinez, seating chart and list of guests at the box lunch at the concert, and photo credits.
News clippings, press releases, and photo credits.
One 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips and one 10" stereo at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One 10" inch DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (36 images). Photographed by Howard W. Marshall.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (31 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Three sheets of black and white 35 mm (69 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Two sheets of black and white 35 mm (55 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Three sheets of black and white 35 mm (77 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs and Carl Fleischhauer.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (35 images). Possibly photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (36 images) and one black and white 6 x 9 photoprint. Photographed by Howard W. Marshall.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (31 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Three black and white 35 mm contact sheets (69 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Two black and white 35 mm contact sheets (55 images) and one black and white 6 x 8 photoprint. Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Three black and white 35 mm contact sheets (77 images) and two 8 x 10 black and white photoprints. Photographed by John T. Gibbs and Carl Fleischhauer.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (35 images), one 8 x 10 black and white photoprint (photographed by a Republican staff photographer), two 6 x 9 black and white photoprints, and one 6 x 9 color photoprint (photographer unknown).
Two holders containing a total of 30. Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
One holder containing 18. Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
Two holders containing a total of 38. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two holders containing a total of 29. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two holders containing a total of 36. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
The 1980 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, audio recordings, and graphic materials that document the 1980 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between April and October. The 1980 series was produced with the assistance of the National Council for the Traditional Arts.
The 1980 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
May 8 Leo Sarkisian and group Virginia Armenian music and dance
June 12 Don Stover Maryland Bluegrass and old-time music
July 10 Sam Brothers Five Louisiana Zydeco music
August 14 Yacub Addy and Blema Bii (Children of the Ancient) Ghana Ghanaian music
September 11 Las Estrellas Del Son, Roberto Borrell and Kubata District of Columbia Afro-Cuban music
October 9 Music of Southeast Asia Various locations Southeast Asian music
The collection guide (this document) and an article about the concert series.
Press releases, news clippings, biographical sketches, descriptions of instruments, and a brochure about Sarkisian's art work.
Press releases, newspaper and magazine clippings.
News clippings.
Press releases, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and identification of people in photos on contact sheet.
Press releases, correspondence, photocopy of resume of Yacub Tetteh Addy, and identification of people in photos on contact sheet.
Press releases, correspondence, concert program, identification of people in photos on contact sheet and in color slides.
Press releases and identification of people in photographs.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" FT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" FT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" inch DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two sheets of black and white 35 mm (63 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs and Carl Fleischhauer.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (25 images). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (30 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two sheets of black and white 35 mm (64 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (36 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (36 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs
Two black and white 35 mm contact sheets. (63 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs and Carl Fleischhauer.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (25 images) and nine 3 x 3 color polaroids (photographer unknown). Photographed by Carl Fleischhauer.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (30 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two black and white 35 mm contact sheets (64 images) and two 8 x 10 black and white photoprints. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (36 images), three 8 x 10 black and white photoprints (photographed by John T. Gibbs), and six 3 x 5 color photoprints (photographer unknown, possibly Carl Fleischhauer).
One black and white contact sheet (36 images), one 4 x 6 black and white photoprint (photographed by John T. Gibbs), and six 3 x 3 color polaroids (photographer unknown, possibly Carl Fleischhauer).
Two holders containing a total of 26. Photographed by John T. Gibbs and Carl Fleischhauer.
One holder containing 14. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two holders containing a total of 25. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One holder containing 13. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One holder containing 19. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two 3/4" black and white.
The 1982 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, audio recordings, and graphic materials that document the 1982 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between May and October. Adverse weather conditions sometimes force the concerts indoors. The 1982 series was produced with the assistance of the National Council for the Traditional Arts.
The 1982 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
April 15 The Irish Tradition Maryland Irish music
May 20 Oboade Drumming and Dance Company District of Columbia Ghanaian music and dance
June 17 The Washington Toho Koto Society District of Columbia Japanese music
July 15 Los Pregoneros del Puerto California Mexican music
August 19 Djimo Kouyate District of Columbia Senegalese music
September 16 Dave Morris West Virginia Old-time country music
October 19 The Washington Toho Koto Society District of Columbia Japanese music
The collection guide (this document) and an article describing the Neptune Plaza Concert Series.
Press releases and news clippings.
Press release, news clipping, and biographical sketches.
Press releases and news clippings.
Press release, news clipping, and identification of people in ensemble.
Press release, news clipping, and biographical sketches.
Press release, news clipping, and biographical sketches.
Press release and concert program.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 10" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (21 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (38 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (35 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (27 images). Photographer unknown.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (26 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (21 images). Photographer unknown.
One sheet of black and white 35 mm (13 images). Photographer unknown.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (21 images), one 5 x 7 black and white photoprint, and one 8 x 10 black and white photoprint. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (38 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (35 images), one 5 x 7 black and white photoprint (and one copy), and two 8 x 10 black and white photoprints.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (27 images). Photographer unknown.
One black and white 35 mm contact sheet (26 images). Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One black and white contact sheet (21 images). Photographer unknown.
One black and white contact sheet (13 images). Photographer unknown.
Two trays containing a total of 24. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Three trays containing a total of 60. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One tray containing 12. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two trays containing a total of 26. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
Two trays containing a total of 31. Photographed by John T. Gibbs.
One tray containing 20. Photographer unknown.
The 1989 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, audio recordings, and graphic materials that document the 1989 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between April and September. Adverse weather conditions sometimes force the concerts indoors. The 1989 series was produced with the assistance of the National Council for the Traditional Arts. Concerts were broadcast live on WAMU-FM, hosted by Dick Spottswood.
The 1989 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
April 20 Quebec Traditional Music and Dance Canada French-Canadian music and dance
May 18 Eddie Blazonczyk and the Versatones Illinois Polish-style polka
June 15 Greg Hooven and the Backstep Band Virginia Old-time music
July 20 Ganga District of Columbia Bengali music
August 17 The Nashville Bluegrass Band Tennessee Bluegrass music
September 21 Ivan Cuesta y sus Vallenatos Autenticos Maryland Colombian music
October 19 The Gospel Pearls and The King's Men District of Columbia Gospel music
The collection guide (this document), an article describing the Neptune Plaza Concert Series, and news clippings on the 1989 concert lineup.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, news clippings, press releases, and a concert log by Aldona Joseph.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Aldona Joseph, press releases, news clippings, booklets on Polish culture and the Polka, and photo logs.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Marsha Maguire and Aldona Joseph, press releases, news clippings, correspondence from Greg Hooven, and photo logs.
Concert fliers, concert log by Aldona Joseph, press releases, news clippings, an identification of artists by instrument, and a concert program.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Aldona Joseph, press releases, news clippings, one 8 x 10" black-and-white promotional picture, and photo logs.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Aldona Joseph, press releases in English and in Spanish, news clippings, and photo logs.
Concert fliers, concert log by Gretchen A. Brodtman, and press releases.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Two 10" DT stereo at 15 ips.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Two 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to- reels).
Two 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to- reels).
Two sheets of black-and-white 35 mm (36 images). Photographed by Reid Baker.
Two sheets of black-and-white 35 mm (35 images). Photographed by John Gibbs and Reid Baker.
Two sheets of black-and-white 35 mm (24 images). Photographer unknown.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (78 images), five 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints (photographed by Reid Baker), and 35 3 x 5" black-and-white photographic prints (photographer unknown).
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (66 images, photographed by John Gibbs and Reid Baker), three 3 x 5" black-and-white promotional photographic prints (photographed by Wm. A. Crooks Photography), and 31 3 x 5" black-and-white photographic prints (photographer unknown).
32 black-and-white 3 x 5" photographic prints. Photographer unknown.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (60 images). Photographed by Reid Baker.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (73 images, photographed by Reid Baker), and one 8 x 10" black-and-white promotional photographic print (photographer unknown).
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (70 images), and four 3 x 5" black-and-white photographic prints. Photographer unknown.
Four black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (111 images, photographed by A.P.H.), and one 5 x 8" black-and-white photographic print (photographer unknown).
Two holders containing a total of 36. Photographed by Reid Baker.
Two holders containing a total of 34. Photographed by John Gibbs and Reid Baker.
Two holders containing a total of 38. Photographer unknown.
One 1/2" VHS color from Northern Virginia Cable TV station WNVT-53/WNVC-56.
The 1991 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, sound recordings, graphic materials, and moving images that document the 1991 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures.
The 1991 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
April 18 Han Sheng Chinese Opera Institute District of Columbia Peking opera
May 16 The Alder Family Switzerland Swiss folk music
June 20 Seldom Scene Virginia Bluegrass music
July 18 Bulgari Bulgaria Bulgarian folk music
August 15 Ensemble of the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia District of Columbia Javanese gamelan music and dance
September 19 Prophecy: Cops for Christ District of Columbia Gospel music
The collection guide (this document) and an article describing the Neptune Plaza Concert Series.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, news clippings, concert programs in English and Chinese, and a concert log by Elaine Bradtke. Concert held in the Mumford Room, James Madison Building, Library of Congress.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, a concert log by Elaine Bradtke, and miscellaneous illustrations.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, and a concert log by Elaine Bradtke.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, and a concert log by Elaine Bradtke.
Concert fliers, press releases, news clippings, a concert program, and a concert log by Elaine Bradtke.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, promotional photographs, and a concert log by Elaine Bradtke.
One 7" DT mono at 7.5 ips. This recording is incomplete because it ends after the very beginning of the concert.
Two 7" DT mono at 7.5 ips. The recording is poor quality. The Alder Family (5-16-91) is recorded in one direction and the Ensemble of the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia (8-15-91) is recorded in the opposite direction. As a result, both recordings are barely audible.
Two 7" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
Two 7" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One 7" DT mono at 3.75 ips. This recording is incomplete. There should have been a second reel for this concert. On AFC 1991/012:SR 4, the Alder Family (5-16-91) is recorded in one direction and the Ensemble of the Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia (8-15-91) is recorded in the opposite direction. As a result, both recordings are barely audible.
Three 7" DT mono at 7.5 ips.
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 4 x 5" black-and-white internegative. Photographed by Reid Baker.
One 4 x 5" black-and-white internegative. Photographed by Greg Jenkins.
One 4 x 5" black-and-white internegative. Photographed by Jim Higgins.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (66 images) and four 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints. Photographed by Jim Higgins.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (64 images), three duplicate contact sheets, one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print and three duplicates, and one 4 x 5" black-and-white photographic print. Photographed by Reid Baker.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (60 images). Photographed by Greg Jenkins.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (62 images), one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print and two duplicates, and one 5 x 7" black-and-white photographic print. Photographed by Jim Higgins.
Seven black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (195 images), one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print, and one 4 x 6" color photographic print. Photographed by Yusef El-Amin.
Two black-and-white contact sheets (56 images), one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print with two duplicates, and one 5 x 5" color photographic print. Photographed by Reid Baker.
One 1/2" VHS videocassette color, sound
One 1/2" VHS videocassette color, sound.
The 1992 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, sound recordings, graphic materials, and moving images that document the 1992 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between April and September. Adverse weather conditions sometimes force the concerts indoors.
The 1992 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
April 23 Edwin Colón Zayas y su Taller Campesino Puerto Rico Puerto Rican traditional string music
May 21 Ralph Blizard and the New Southern Ramblers Tennessee Old-time music and step dancing
June 5 Los Pregoneros del Puerto California Veracruz harp music
June 25 Santa Clara Pueblo Dancers New Mexico Tewa music and dance
July 16 Donna Long and Brendan Mulvihill Maryland and Ireland Irish Traditional music and dance
August 20 Helen Smith and the Angels of Faith District of Columbia Gospel music
September 10 Everett Lilly and Clear Creek Crossin' West Virginia Bluegrass music
The collection guide (this document), an article describing the Neptune Plaza Concert Series, press releases on the 1992 concert lineup, and a three and one-half inch computer diskette containing logs of the concerts (all logs are available in hard copy in the individual concert folders).
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, press releases, promotional materials on the band in English and in Spanish, and a concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, press releases, news clippings, correspondence from Phil Jamison, and promotional materials on the band.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, news clippings, and promotional materials including information on the band.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, and news clippings.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, and news clippings.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, and news clippings.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, news clippings, promotional materials about the band, and photocopies of photographic prints of individual band members and of the group as a whole.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips and one 7" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One SR8 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips.
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to-reel).
One 90-minute (recorded concurrently with reel-to- reel).
One 8 x 10" black and white (publicity). Photographer unknown.
One sheet of black-and-white 35 mm (35 images) and one 8 x 10" black and white. Photographed by Jim Higgins.
One one-row sheet of 35 mm black and white (1 image). Photographed by Dan Sheehy of the National Endowment for the Arts.
One 8 x 10" black and white (publicity). Photographer unknown.
One 8 x 10" black and white (publicity). Photographer unknown.
One 8 x 10" black and white (publicity). Photographer unknown.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (47 images), four 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints, and one 8 x 10" color photographic print. Photographed by Reid Baker.
Six black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (148 images) and two 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints (publicity). Photographed by Jim Higgins and an unknown photographer.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (49 images) and seven 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints. Photographed by Dan Sheehy of the NEA and Jim Higgins.
Four black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (76 images) and seven 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints. Photographed by Reid Baker and possibly Yusef El-Amin.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (66 images, photographed by Jim Higgins), two 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints and one 5 x 7" black-and-white photographic print. Photographed by Jim Higgins.
Three black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (76 images), one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print, and one 8 x 10" color photographic print. Photographed by Reid Baker.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (54 images, photographed by Yusef El-Amin), and two 8 x 10" color photographic prints (publicity-photographer unknown).
Two trays containing a total of 38. Photographed by John Gibbs.
One mylar sleeve containing one. Photographed by Dan Sheehy of the NEA.
One tray containing 10. Photographer unknown.
One 1/2" VHS color.
One 1/2" VHS color.
One 1/2" VHS color. Viewing copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 1/2" VHS color.
One 1/2" VHS color.
One 1/2" VHS color.
One 1/2" VHS color copy.
The 1994 Neptune Plaza Concert Series Collection consists of manuscript and print materials, sound recordings, graphic materials, and moving images that document the 1994 concert series sponsored by the American Folklife Center. The annual series, which began in 1977, features the presentation of folk traditions from many cultures. The concerts take place on the Neptune Plaza at the front of the Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress between April and September. Adverse weather conditions sometimes force the concerts indoors.
The 1994 season consisted of the following:
Date Performers Place of Origin Subject
April 21 Lamas of Drepung Loseling Monastery Tibet Tibetan sacred music and dance
May 19 Sviraj Delaware and Pennsylvania Tamburitza music of the Balkans
June 2 Six Nations Longhouse Women Singers New York and Canada Iroquois music
June 16 Legendary Orioles Maryland Rhythm and blues quartet singing
July 21 Kings of Harmony District of Columbia Gospel brass band
August 18 Dave McLaughlin and Josh Crowe Virginia Bluegrass
September 15 Cachao and his Latin All Stars New York, Florida, and Puerto Rico Cuban mambo
The collection guide (this document), an article describing the Neptune Plaza Concert Series, and press releases and news clippings on the 1994 concert lineup. Also includes a three and one-half inch computer diskette containing logs of the concerts (all logs are available in hard copy in the individual concert folders).
Concert fliers, news clippings, promotional materials on the band, and a concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst with input from Danilo Yanich, news clippings, and promotional materials on the band.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Judith Gray, news clippings, and promotional materials on the band.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by William Maxwell Derrickson, and promotional materials on the band.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, and news clippings.
Concert flier autographed by the performers, unsigned fliers, concert log by Catherine Hiebert Kerst, and promotional materials on the band.
Concert fliers, concert log by Pablo Calvan, press releases, news clippings, and promotional materials about the band in English and in Spanish.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 10" DT stereo at 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 10" DT stereoat 7.5 ips. Listening copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 120-minute digital audio tape. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 120-minute digital audio tape. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 120-minute digital audio tape. Listening copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One sheet of black-and-white 35 mm (36 images). Photographed by Jim Hardin.
One sheet of black-and-white 35 mm (14 images). Photographed by Jim Hardin.
Two sheets of black-and-white 35 mm (51 images) Photographed by John Gibbs.
Two sheets of black-and-white 35 mm (57 images). Photographed by John Gibbs.
One sheet of black-and-white 35 mm (37 images). Photographed by Jim Hardin.
One black-and-white 35 mm contact sheet (36 images, photographed by Jim Hardin), one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print (publicity-photographer unknown), two 8 x 10" color photographic prints, and three duplicate 8 x 10" color photographic prints (photographed by Nikki Vreeland).
One black-and-white 35 mm contact sheet (14 images, photographed by Jim Hardin) and one 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic print (publicity- photographer unknown).
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (51 images). Photographed by John Gibbs.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (57 images). Photographed by John Gibbs.
Two black-and-white 35 mm contact sheets (34 images), and five 8 x 10" black-and-white photographic prints. Photographed by Yusef El-Amin.
One black-and-white 35 mm contact sheet (37 images, photographed by Jim Hardin), and one color 35 mm contact sheet (22 images, photographer unknown).
Two trays containing a total of 36. Photographed by John Gibbs.
Three trays containing a total of 52. Photographed by John Gibbs.
Two trays containing a total of 36. Photographed by John Gibbs.
One Hi-8 color videotaped by Peter Bartis. Viewing copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 1/2" VHS color. Videotapes by Terrence L. Lisbeth.
One Hi-8 color and one 1/2" VHS color (recorded concurrently).
One Hi-8 color videotaped by Peter Bartis. Viewing copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One Hi-8 color. Viewing copies are available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One 1/2" VHS color. Viewing copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
One Hi-8 color videotaped by Nolyn Mason. Viewing copy is available in the Folklife Reading Room.
Collection of photographic documentation of wild horse herds in the Nevada Great Basin made by Paula Morin during her work for the Nevada Arts Council, 1999-2001.
The manuscript materials include exhibition documentation, a narrative history of wild horses in the Great Basin, background information on the Nevada Touring Initiative, and a teaching module. Also included is a handwritten print log with details about the creation of the giclee prints.
The graphic images include 21 giclee prints, plus more than 1300 black-and-white photographs depicting wild horses in the Great Basin region, as well as other images taken during Morin's fieldwork.
Administratrive information pertaining to the Nevada Touring Initiative.
Postcards, flyers, book jackets and schedule of exhibits.
Telling the Story of Nevada's Wild Horses State Spotlight: National Assembly of State Arts Agencies
Detailed processing and image development notes.
Collection of field recordings of interviews with Montanans in various occupations including ranching, sheep herding, blacksmithing, stone cutting, saddle making, and mining; various folk and traditional music occasions including fiddle and mandolin music in Forsyth; fiddle and accordion music performed in Broadus; the Montana Old-Time Fiddlers Association in Polson; Irish music, songs, and dance music on concertina and accordion in Butte; a Serbian wedding and reception in Butte; hymn singing of the Turner Colony of Hutterites; the annual Crow Fair in Crow Agency; storytelling on the Milk River Wagon Train, and other documentation of rodeos, trade crafts, vernacular architecture, quilting, and other reminiscences and stories about life in Montana in 1979. One videocassette comprises news coverage of the Montana Folklife Survey, featuring Barre Toelken, KECI-TV, Missoula, Montana, 1979-09-13.
See PDF inventory.
The Discoteca Publica Municipal de São Paulo Collection consists of sound recordings, film, photographs, and some manuscript material documenting the music and dance of primarily Afro-Brazilians in northeast Brazil in the late 1930s. Accessioned in 1943 and 1950, it is the product of a four-year correspondence between Oneyda Alvarenga, Director of the Discoteca, and Harold Spivacke, then Chief of the Music Division at the Library of Congress, that resulted in an exchange of folklore materials. It represents one of the first ethnographic compilations of music, dance, and ritual from this area, presenting a view of the cultural life in those states before the modernizing influences that followed World War II and the growth of tourism. The collection also provides an example of the way fieldwork in Brazil was conducted at the time and includes visual documentation of a fieldworker making sound recordings.
The music and dance in the collection includes work songs, songs without dance, dance dramas, ritual ceremonies, solo dances, group dances, songs for children's games, instrumentals, and songs and dances performed at Carnaval. They reflect the diversity of cultural influences in the region: European (Portuguese), Afro-Brazilian, and native Indians. For example, the bumba meu boi dance drama portrays the misfortunes of a prize bull that a cattle rancher has obtained to improve his herd. It is of Portuguese origin with added Brazilian elements. The caboclinho is a Carnaval group of Afro-Brazilians that parade dressed as Amerindians, performing imitative dances to music provided by Afro-Brazilian instruments.
The materials span the years 1938 to 1943, with the largest portion documented in 1938. The collection is divided into four series by format: manuscripts, sound recordings, graphic materials, and moving images. These materials offer access to the events by providing visual and oral documentation.
An inventory provided by the Discoteca (in Portuguese) provides information about the audio recordings and accompanying photographs. A concordance in Appendix A links the audio recordings, photographs, and films for identified events. Besides documenting the events, the photographic prints include images of artifacts, including musical instruments and dance costumes, photographed after they were taken to the Discoteca. Books and notes published by the Discoteca and cataloged by the Library of Congress may provide further insight into the holdings.
Collection guide, accession log, copy of the project authorization, publicity and administration.
Arranged chronologically. Consists of original correspondence primarily between Harold Spivacke, Chief, Division of Music, Library of Congress, and Oneyda Alvarenga, Chief, Discoteca Publica Municipal de São Paulo, Brazil (correspondence from Alvarenga in Portuguese and translated upon receipt into English). The content mainly concerns the transfer of materials between the two entities and budgetary matters. Also includes internal Library memoranda and correspondence between the Library and other federal agencies concerning the allotment of monies for the project and transportation of materials.
Originals and copies of material provided by the Discoteca (in Portuguese). Includes a list of audio recordings by genre, a six-page description of dance and song types, and a list of titles identifying the fourteen silent films.
Copies of the original, typed cards provided by the Discoteca (in Portuguese) for discs 1-199 (AFS 7399-7597). Information includes date and location of recording, song titles, informants, instruments, photographic concordance, and additional notes.
Photocopies of portions of original disc sleeves that contained numbering information. AFS 7399-7556, 7560.
Original versions of cards contained in Folders 4-5
See PDF of the original, typed cards provided by the Discoteca in Portuguese for discs 1-199 (AFS 7399-7597) and PDF of listening log in English.
See PDF of listening log in English.
The photographs document the fieldwork and audio recordings, arranged numerically and roughly grouped geographically. Copies of original envelopes that contained the photographs precede each set, and provide identifying information in Portuguese. For more information, see audio recordings inventory and dance concordance.
Photographs of museum pieces housed in the Discoteca. Includes images of musical instruments and dance costumes. At the time of accessioning, no list or description was provided. For more information, see bibliography.
Documents the music, dance, and ritual found on audio recordings and in photographs. Housed in the Motion Picture Division. See PDF in Portuguese of the contents of each original reel, also found in Folder 3. See also the Dance Concordance. FRA 6479-6480 (duplicate negatives); FRA 6338 (archival positive).
The California Folk Music Project of the California Work Projects Administration (WPA) was conceived and directed by Sidney Robertson Cowell and co-sponsored by the Music Department of the University of California, Berkeley, and the Music Division, Library of Congress from 1938 to 1940. Additional support was provided by the New Music Society of California and the Society of California Pioneers. The resulting collection of sound recordings, photographs, correspondence, field notes, and drawings documents the musical culture, including religious music and folk song, of many ethnic and English-language performers in northern California. The collection includes the documentation of the music of Anglo Americans, Armenians, Assyrians, Basques, Croatians, English, Finns, Hungarians, Icelanders, Italians, Norwegians, Russian Molokans, Scots, Portuguese, Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, Spaniards and Spanish Americans from 1938 to 1940. The sound recordings were deposited in the Archive of American Folk Song at the Library of Congress in 1940. The collection also includes a few copies of instantaneous sound discs made by Sidney Robertson Cowell in Missouri and Iowa for the Farm Security Administration in 1936-1937, and includes folk music research, writing, photographs, and technical drawings and sketches of the musical instruments, generated by Cowell and by the WPA staff who worked for her, plus related documents to 1991.
Subseries I contains correspondence materials that represent the pre-WPA period which spans September 21, 1938-October 20, 1938. During November 1938-February 1940 and post-WPA April 1940-September 1958.
Correspondence to and from Robertson, memoranda, project proposals, and other materials relating to pre-California Folk Music Project activities and queries. Correspondents include Henry Cowell, Adrian Dornbush, Albert I. Elkus, Herbert Halpert, George Herzog, Alan Lomax, John A. Lomax, Charles Seeger, James B. Sharp, Harold Spivacke, the Society of California Pioneers and others.
Correspondence to and from Robertson, memoranda, project proposals, and other materials relating to pre-California Folk Music Project activities and queries. Correspondents include Henry Cowell, Adrian Dornbush, Albert I. Elkus, Herbert Halpert, George Herzog, Alan Lomax, John A. Lomax, Charles Seeger, James B. Sharp, Harold Spivacke, the Society of California Pioneers and others.
Correspondence to and from Robertson, memoranda, project proposals, and other materials relating to pre-California Folk Music Project activities and queries. Correspondents include Henry Cowell, Adrian Dornbush, Albert I. Elkus, Herbert Halpert, George Herzog, Alan Lomax, John A. Lomax, Charles Seeger, James B. Sharp, Harold Spivacke, the Society of California Pioneers and others.
Correspondence to and from Robertson, memoranda, reports, and other materials relating to the California Folk Music Project while the project was being funded. Correspondents include Percy Grainger, George Herzog, Alan Lomax, Charles Seeger, Harold Spivacke and others.
Correspondence to and from Robertson, memoranda, reports, and other materials relating to the California Folk Music Project while the project was being funded. Correspondents include Percy Grainger, George Herzog, Alan Lomax, Charles Seeger, Harold Spivacke and others.
Correspondence to and from Sidney Robertson (after 1941, Sidney Robertson Cowell), memoranda, reports, and miscellaneous materials relating to the California Folk Music Project once it had been discontinued. Includes information about intended follow-up projects planned in the 1950s, material of folkloric and ethnomusicological value relating to the music already recorded, and plans for reviving the WPA-like cooperation of funds and resources through a consortium of universities, archival institutions, and collectors. Correspondents include Benjamin Botkin, Albert I. Elkus, Duncan Emrich, Percy Grainger, George Herzog, Rae Korson, Alan Lomax, John A. Lomax, Harold Spivacke and others.
Correspondence between Sidney Robertson Cowell and the American Folklife Center relating to Library of Congress' interest in making the California Folk Music Project Collection accessible to the public online. The folder also includes some Cowell reminiscences about the WPA project. Correspondents include Alan Jabbour and others.
"Instruction to workers for the Collection of Traditional Music in California." Forms to be used in conducting fieldwork on the project. Bibliographic key word list Guide for WPA workers responding to "General Queries." Bibliography.
Report dated July 20, 1939, and another for the period from October 28, 1938 to September, 19, 1939, both prepared for the Northern California WPA Office.
Statement of sponsorship for the WPA California Folk Music Project by faculty of the University of California, Berkeley, February 14, 1940.
Statement of Accomplishment for O.P. 65-1-08-62, Unit A-25, Area Unit Serial No. 0803-1659, "A Study of California Folk Music," sponsored by the Department of Music of the University of California, Work Projects Administration, State of California, Northern District, Area No. 8, Alameda County, Berkeley, California, January, 1940. 88 pages
List of Recordings made by Sidney Robertson in California 1938-1940 arranged alphabetically by performer. Yellow and white typewritten pages, some originals, listing English-language songs recorded as part of the California Folk Music Project. Organized alphabetically by last name of performer. Includes dates and locations of performances, collector's disc number with E, indicating "English-language" songs, instrumentation, occasional background commentary on the performers and performances, location where recorded, and, at times, comments regarding quality of sound recordings.
List of recordings made by Sidney Robertson in California 1938-1940 arranged alphabetically by performer. (photocopy)
List of foreign language recordings made by Sidney Robertson in California, 1938-1940. Yellow and white typewritten pages, some originals, listing non-English language songs recorded as part of the California Folk Music Project. Organized alphabetically by cultural group. Includes dates and locations of performances, collector's disc number with M, indicating "minority," instrumentation, occasional background commentary on the performers and performances, location where recorded, and, at times, comments regarding quality of sound recordings. n.d.
List of foreign language recordings made by Sidney Robertson in California, 1938–1940. Yellow and white typewritten pages, some originals, listing non-English language songs recorded as part of the California Folk Music Project. Organized alphabetically by cultural group. Includes dates and locations of performances, collector's disc number with M, indicating "minority," instrumentation, occasional background commentary on the performers and performances, location where recorded, and, at times, comments regarding quality of sound recordings. n.d.
List of foreign language recordings made by Sidney Robertson in California, 1938-1940 (photocopy).
Field reports submitted to the Northern California WPA Office for Folk Music Project 10482-A25, November 25, 1938-November 25, 1939
With English translations, arranged alphabetically by title. Folder 43 (A -F) and Folder 44 (H-V) include musical transcriptions of Portuguese-language songs with lyrics, a translation of the lyrics into English and, at times, notes on these songs from the Azores that were recorded for the California collection, indexed, organized, and translated by WPA California Folk Music Project worker and performer Alice Lemos Avila.
English-language California song and poem research from printed sources for texts beginning in "A" through "T," n.d. Arranged in alphabetical order by first letter of title or first line.
This folder includes background information on and published lyrics of Gold Rush songs copied by California WPA workers from an unidentified book at the UC Library in Berkeley. Songs, in the order in which they were prepared by the WPA staff.
Portuguese-language songs arranged in alphabetical order, beginning with first letter.
Folk Songs and Dances from the Azores, set down by Alice Avila in Berkeley in 1938-9. Copied and translated from Portuguese by Alice Lemos Avila with notes and transcriptions from the publication entitled Portucale. Includes notes for the following songs, with lyrics and musical transcription listed by first line.
"The Songs of a Nation Collect a Forgotten Claim" and "The Spirit of a Generation Reflected in Folk Songs" by Sidney Robertson in two parts about her work collecting folk songs in California for the WPA. Published in the "This World" section, on September 4, 1938, p. 26, and September 14, 1938, p. 22.
Original handwritten report in spiral notebook written by WPA California Folk Music Project worker Carmen Mell to describe the historical, cultural, and musical life of the Portuguese in California, 1939. Includes letter from Carmen Mell to Sidney Robertson that accompanied the report when it was completed. (3 pages)
3 copies of "The Recording of Folk Music in California" by Sidney Robertson. Vol. 1, No. 1, January 1942, pp. 7-23.
24-page typewritten and handwritten manuscript prepared by Sidney Robertson Cowell, July 1954. Research products inspired by the WPA California Folk Music Project.
Articles written about Sidney Robertson, the WPA California Folk Music Project in 1938-1940, and reviews of Sidney Robertson and Eleanora Black's compilation entitled The Gold Rush Song Book, published in 1940.
19 catalog cards created according to guidelines and procedures of the Library of Congress, as examples for the WPA California Folk Music Project staff. The actual catalog cards prepared by project staff for the field recordings of the CFMP became part of the Archive of Folk Culture's item-level shelflist card file created by other WPA staff working in the Library in the late 1930s and early 1940s located in the Folklife Reading Room.
The CFMP selections included here (folders 25 and up) are often annotated by an E (English-language) or M (minority) disk number, the original numbers that Robertson assigned to the recordings she made for the WPA project. The term "version" here is used to cover both true variants of a song and draft copies of transcriptions in several stages of preparation (as was frequently done by WPA staff for this collection). For Folders 24-45, see Appendix C for song titles.
Original field recordings made by Robertson between 1938-1940 on 12-inch acetate disks and labeled E 1-90 [English-language recordings] and M 1-109 ["Minority" or foreign-language recordings]. Arranged numerically by AFS numbers in the order in which they were received by the Archive of Folk Culture. Some of the original field recordings were sent to the Folk Archive during the project in 1939; the rest were brought in during 1940 by Robertson.
Two duplicate rolls of microfilm copied from the University of California, Berkeley, Music Library's California Folk Music Project Collection. Includes images representing 85 preliminary sketches of the musical instruments made originally on butcher-block paper and 40 mechanical scale drawings made by WPA staff. Includes sketches of the Spanish guitar or Sonora not included below.
Typewritten listing of drawings and sketches of musical instruments in collection with handwritten annotations. Undated.
Photocopies of scale drawings taken from microfilm in the collection.
Photostats of mechanical drawings of eight musical instruments.
Duplicate photographic prints, copy negatives for photoduplication purposes, and photocopies of photographic prints.
170 black and white photographic prints of various sizes photographed by Sidney Robertson, T.H. Hall, and possibly other WPA workers. Includes photos of WPA personnel at work, performers, sometimes with instruments, and of instruments.
Collection of professional papers, field recordings of interviews and songs, a film, and photographs documenting the career and folklife fieldwork of George Korson. George Korson conducted fieldwork in the anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania and also in Pennsylvania Dutch Country in eastern counties of Pennsylvania. The film dated October 12, 1964 is George Korson (with Charlie McCarthy) interviewed by Franklin D. Coslett. The collection also includes various papers and interviews created by Angus K. Gillespie, including his interviews with folklorist and labor historian Archie Green. Gillespie is the author of a biography of George Korson, titled Folklorist of the coal fields : George Korson's life and work (Pennsylvania State University Press, 1980).
The published version of the inventory at King's College, compiled by Judith Tierney. No. 1 in the Wyoming Valley Series, of the Publications of the D. Leonard Corgan Library; Mary Barrett, ed. (1973).
Includes disc labels that detached from disc centers, as well as typed song lists and handwritten notes.
Includes orders, notebook, passport, etc.
See description for box-folder 2/5.
American Red Cross Courier was the magazine of the American Red Cross. In addition to the certificate and letters is an illustrated booklet for the American Institute of Graphic Arts exhibition, 1951; on pages 11 and 26 are listings for issues of the Courier, for which George Korson is one of the editors. The materials in this folder are listed in the King's College Library inventory as preceding the "Miscellany" folder. The materials were received at the American Folklife Center with the folder in its present position in the order of folders, and with the original notation on the folder back (regarding the order of folders within a box) erased and rewritten.
Includes position descriptions and work evaluations for jobs with the American Red Cross held by Korson and others, typescripts of speeches and writings by Korson, photostat copies of newspaper clippings, typed copies of telegrams, a newsprint clipping, a B'nai B'rith News Service publication on the relationship between the organization and the Red Cross, a handbook for American Red Cross chapters, etc.
See description for box-folder 2/13.
See description for box-folder 2/13.
Resume drafts and related documents, newspaper clipping announcing engagement of Rae Korson (then Rachel Rosenblatt) to George Korson, the handwritten text of Korson's part in a debate speech, an account book for George Korson, etc.
See description for box-folder 3/4.
There are no correspondence folders for the following dates: December 1939, March 1942, August 1951, August 1952, and June-November 1967.
Includes a typed note (signed) from Helen Hartness Flanders to Rae Korson, signed by Flanders.
These are by George Korson unless otherwise noted.
Photocopies of cover and pages from original scrapbook album. The original scrapbook is in Box 82.
See the description for box-folder 27/1.
See the description for box-folder 27/1.
See the description for box-folder 27/1.
Photocopy of the essay and the original issue of the journal.
Book review (in typescript) by George Korson, with handwritten corrections.
Two copies of a book review by George Korson, reprinted from Southern Folklore XVII: 3 (September 1953).
Book review by George Korson, published in Elizabeth Times.
Photocopy of book review by George Korson, published in Journal of American Folklore 77: 304 (April-June 1964).
Photocopy of book review by George Korson, published in Keystone Folklore Quarterly 3: 2 (Summer 1958).
Two copies of a book review by George Korson, reprinted from Southern Folklore Quarterly (December 1953).
Original clipping and photocopy of a book review by George Korson, published in The Washington Star.
Book review (in typescript) by George Korson.
Book review by George Korson, reprinted from Notes 8:2 (March 1951).
Review of two books (in typescript), by George Korson, on American Red Cross letterhead stationary.
Speech given before the Pennsylvania Historical Association, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
One photocopy each from issues for Fall 1957, Winter 1957-58, Spring 1958, Summer 1958, Fall 1958, Spring-Summer 1959, and Spring-Summer 1960
The typed manuscript was received from King's College in two folders.
See note for box-folder 27/28.
See note for box-folder 27/28.
Handwritten notes from a loose-leaf binder.
The original has been relocated to box-folder 94/13.
Includes copies of Korson's speech (in final and draft forms, as well as excerpts), plus two copies of the program from the 65th annual meeting of the Pennsylvania German Society, October 21-22, 1955.
Speech given before the Red Cross Personnel Training Unit, The American University, Washington, D.C.
Some of the writings have been identified.
See box-folder 98/24.
In the King's College inventory this subseries was named "Manuscripts."
Published by F. H. Hitchcock, 1927.
Published in 1936.
Published in 1937
First published in 1938 by University of Pennsylvania Press.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
See note for box-folder 30/9.
Published by Row, Peterson and Co., in 1941.
First published in 1943 by University of Pennsylvania Press.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1. Some papers in the original Box 65 was damaged in transit to AFC. After treatment by Conservation Division staff, they were rehoused in folders 36/1-7.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
See note for box-folder 32/1.
Published by Coward-McCann in 1945.
Published by Dial Press in 1947.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
See note for box-folder 38/1.
First released by the Library of Congress in 1947.
Published by the University of Pennsylvania Press in 1949.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
See note for box-folder 38/9.
First published by Johns Hopkins Press, 1960. The page proofs for the book have been relocated to box-folder 94/14.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
See note for box-folder 41/5.
First released by the Library of Congress in 1965.
See note for box-folder 48/4.
See note for box-folder 48/4.
See note for box-folder 48/4.
Published by Bobbs-Merrill in 1970.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
See note for box-folder 49/2.
Undated manuscripts.
See Box 87.
See Box 88.
See Box 89.
See Box 90.
See note for box-folder 60/7.
See note for box-folder 60/7.
See Box 86.
See Box 93.
See Box 83.
Photocopies. See Boxes 84 and 85.
Photocopies. See note for box-folder 6/7.
Photocopies. See note for box-folder 6/7.
Photocopies. See note for box-folder 6/7.
A series by James Corrigan in Anthracite Tri District News.
Two items received with photographs, not associated with any particular one or group.
Typewritten transcripts for audio tapes, created after the collection inventory was published. There is no tape or transcript for AFC 2003/011: SR077. Some typographical errors appear in the transcripts, especially for names. Unless otherwise identified, all recordings were made by George Korson. See Series 2 for further details.
Includes a newspaper clipping in the folder
The transcripts for SR024 and SR025 were created as a single, continuous unit.
Includes a newspaper clipping in the folder
Duplicated in part on AFC 2003/011: SR058.
The transcripts for SR035 and SR036 were created as a single, continuous unit.
A manuscript item in folder could be Korson's handwriting.
The transcripts for this subject's two interviews (begun on AFC 2003/011: SR048 and completed on AFC 2003/011: SR049) were created as a single, continuous unit.
The transcripts for AFC 2003/011: SR054-057 were created as a single, continuous unit.
The recording is a compilation reel of other recordings.
The recording is a compilation reel of other recordings.
The recording is a compilation reel of other recordings.
The transcripts for AFC 2003/011: SR071 and AFC 2003/011: SR072 were created as a single, continuous unit (and as a rough draft only).
Children's songs. Song log, plus introductions to and lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus introductions to and lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus introductions to and lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus introductions to and lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus introductions to and lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus lyrics for the songs.
Children's songs. Song log, plus lyrics for the songs.
Bituminous miners' songs. Song log only.
Bituminous miners' songs. Song log only.
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, locations, and brief notes. Reel 1 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, locations, and brief notes. Reel 2 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, and locations. Reel 3 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, and locations. Reel 4 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, and locations. Reel 5 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, and locations. Reel 6 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, and locations. Reel 7 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, locations, and brief note. Reel 8 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Bituminous miners' songs. Concordance, song list, performer names, locations, and brief note. Reel 9 of 9 reels of the "George Korson Duplication Project" (LWO 3960).
Coal miners' songs. The document "Tape Recordings Reel List" identifies these as "Bituminous miners' songs."
Coal miners' songs. The document "Tape Recordings Reel List" identifies these as "Bituminous miners' songs."
Coal miners' folk songs, sung by Joe Glazer. Song log only.
Reading of The child's book of folklore, by Marion Vallat Emrich and George Gershon Korson.
Railroad songs. Song log only.
Publications, offprints, drafts, and related materials. The contents of the folder "Pennsylvania: maps (oversized)" are now housed in oversize folder 1.
Exterior measurements for scrapbooks are approximate.
Includes newspaper clippings: Korson's columns "A Stranger in Allentown" and "Rambles in Allentown," plus other articles by other writers on coal and other industries.
The first Pennsylvania Folk Festival, held in Allentown. Includes newspaper clippings with handwritten notations. The label on the front cover says "First annual folk festival, Allentown 1935." See folder 61/6.
The second Pennsylvania Folk Festival, held in Lewisburg. Includes newspaper clippings. The label on the front cover says "The Pennsylvania Folk Festival in Memorial Stadium, Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pa., Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, July 30--31--August 1--2--1936." Includes articles on various regional folk festivals in Pennsylvania. See folder 61/7-9 and folder 62/1.
The second Pennsylvania Folk Festival, held in Lewisburg. Includes newspaper clippings. The label on the front cover says "Pennsylvania Folk Festival, Bucknell University, Memorial Stadium, Lewisburg, July 30, 31-Aug. 1, 2." Includes articles on various regional folk festivals in Pennsylvania. See box-folders 61/7-9 and box-folder 62/1.
Includes newspaper clippings. See box-folder 60/14.
Includes newspaper clippings and related materials. See box-folder 59/8.
Includes newspaper clippings and related materials. See box-folder 59/9.
Includes newspaper clippings and related materials. See box-folder 59/10 for more reviews.
Includes newspaper clippings and related materials. See box-folder 60/7-9 for more reviews.
Newspaper clippings, plus a program for the Pennsylvania Folklore Society fall meeting (October 16-17, 1959) and a list of books purchased from Boochever Memorial funds that were (at the time) available at the American National Red Cross headquarters library.
Newspaper clippings.
Newspaper clippings of Korson's obituaries, as well as obituaries reprinted in various publications. See box-folder 61/5.
Items that arrived at AFC in frames were unframed and treated by Library of Congress Conservation staff in 2005.
"A Miner's Prayer." Copy of a broadside originally printed by C. Erb, York, Pennsylvania, in 1904.
Korson named as a Fellow of the American Folklore Society. Printed certificate (matted), with handwritten additions and blind stamp. A significant amount of the handwriting has faded. Original ID 4:2.
"Machines Only Music Left in Mines," from The Evening Star (Washington, D.C.). Matted newspaper clipping.
Newspaper report on the celebration for the 50th anniversary of the Pottsville Free Library. Matted newspaper clipping (from The Pottsville (Pennsylvania) Republican and clip-service citation.
Korson granted lifetime honorary membership by the Pennsylvania Folk Lore [sic] Society. Printed certificate, with handwritten additions.
Typed letter (signed) and typed envelope from Carl Sandburg to Korson. The letter and envelope are matted and mounted.
"30 Million TV Fans See Inside of Mine." One-page article from United Mine Workers Journal. Newsprint clipping (received by AFC already laminated).
"The Singing Miners." One-page article from Junior Bazaar.
Citation of distinguished service awarded to Korson by the University of Pennsylvania. Printed certificate with handwritten additions. Original ID 4:2.
Typed letter (signed) and typed envelope from John L. Lewis to Korson.
Certificate awarded to Korson, granting him associate member status in the Pennsylvania German Society. Printed certificate with handwritten additions and foil seal.
Certificate awarded (posthumously) to Korson, on the Golden Jubilee of his service during World War I in the Jewish Zealand; presented by the Zionist Organization of America. Printed certificate with handwritten additions.
Illustrated page, possibly from United Mine Workers Journal, with images of United Mine Workers of America International presidents, 1890-1965. Coated heavy-stock paper, with black marker added over three images. See box-folder 28/7 for a photocopy (received with the collection).
Printed pages, with handwritten notations. About 100 pages.
Printed map; black ink on white paper, possibly a lithograph. The date of the printing is probably much later than the date on the map itself. Accompanied by a county map of Pennsylvania (8 1/2 in. x 11 in.), which originally accompanied it when received from King's College.
Published by the Pennsylvania Council of Teachers of English. 1959 is the copyright date. Blue and orange printing on white paper.
Handwriting and notations on both sides of the map, including a typed note to Korson from Carl Maurer, who sent the map to him. Printed map; black ink on white paper, with black ink spill marks along some formerly folded areas at center.
Probably a map of mines in Schuylkill and neighboring counties in Pennsylvania. White print on blue background.
Half the item's 34-inch measurement is the map, and the other half is a location index for counties, cities, and towns
Original index cards for published books in the George Korson Folklore Archive. Approximately 625 cards. See Appendix A for a list of books retained with the current collection.
Files donated by Professor Angus K. Gillespie to Rutgers University, documenting his research regarding Korson and Korson's work, for the book Folklorist of the Coal Fields. The original order of the files, as they were received at AFC, has been retained.
One item of correspondence from Ronald L. Becker (Rutgers University) to an unidentified person at King's College, to document that he would ship the Gillespie papers to King's College for inclusion in the George Korson Folklore Archive.
Correspondence from Books-On-File (book search service) to Gillespie.
Correspondence between Gillespie and the publisher of his book on Korson, plus an announcement for the 1974 James Mooney Award. Original file heading: Publication.
Research on the Red Cross
Photocopies of a review of The miner sings, by Melvin LeMon and George Korson (published 1936), plus a letter dated May 8, 1936 from LeMon to Eugene H. Fischer.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of Korson's book Songs and ballads of the anthracite miner (published 1937), with a typed paragraph introducing the material.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of Korson's book Minstrels of the mine patch (published 1938), plus pages from the book, with handwritten annotations, and a paper submitted by a student in a class taught by Gillespie.
Photocopies of a contemporary review of Korson's book Black land (published 1941), published correspondence to and from Korson and others, and a draft of a prospectus from the "Way of Life" series published by Row, Peterson, and Company.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of Korson's book Coal dust on the fiddle (published 1943), with handwritten notes, plus a copy of a paper written by a student in a class taught by Gillespie.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of A child's book of folklore (published 1947; co-written by Korson and Marion Vallat Emrich), a publication announcement, and a royalty statement.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of sound recordings from Korson's fieldwork, and articles about the Archive of Folk Song.
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of Korson's book Pennsylvania songs and legends (published 1949), plus an article on "Unrecorded folk traditions in Pennsylvania," by Samuel P. Bayard (1945).
Photocopies of contemporary reviews of Korson's book Black rock (published 1960), plus a letter from Korson to Archie Green, and published materials for Gillespie's research.
Two newspaper articles on mine safety.
Photocopied newspaper articles.
Photocopied newspaper articles, plus an original flyer (incomplete on Sen. Dick Schweiker, and original newspaper articles.
"A short history of tape abuse," by Brock Bower (satiric article from Esquire magazine).
Photocopied article from Book of the Month Club News.
Photocopies of the title and copyright pages from Gillespie's dissertation, plus an original, typed (unsigned) copy of the title page.
Photocopied newspaper articles.
Original and photocopied newspaper and magazine clippings, a subscription receipt for United Mine Workers Journal, and handwritten notes.
Photocopied essay Folk Life, vol. 9: "Aspects of mining folklore in Wales," by Lynn Davies.
Original newspaper clippings.
Photocopied newspaper clippings, and photocopied and original promotional materials about the city.
Correspondence between Gillespie and William H. Toner (director of the Society), a photocopied newspaper article, photocopied pages from an unidentified publication or dissertation, a brief typescript essay (an appreciation of Korson), and Gillespie's reader's card for the Society.
Original copy of a book review, published in Newsweek. Original folder heading: WPA.
Handwritten questions for an interview with Wruble, and notes from a phone conversations; all on legal paper. Wruble was Korson's sister.
Original clippings from magazines. Original folder heading: 261 - Benchley Jaws.
A sample recording published by Time-Life. Original folder header: 303 - Nostalgia - Music. This item has not been assigned an AFC ID number.
Original editions of the publication.
Typed draft for Gillespie's book; this became Chapter 2 in the published version.
Typed draft for Gillespie's book; this became Chapter 3 in the published version.
Reviews of Korson's books, Gillespie's work (including a news release). Most documents are photocopies. Also included: a slip of paper with a typed note (signed) from Rae Korson to Gillespie.
Typed and handwritten pages listing various U.S. publishers, plus a photocopied list of pages from an unidentified, published work listing U.S. publishers, with handwritten notations.
Drafts and copy of a cover letter Gillespie sent to publishers, along with a prospectus of his book.
Two original typed copies of the prospectus for Gillespie's book, an original typed copy of the prospectus for a new approach to American Studies, as recommended by Gillespie and others, and photocopied pages from the folklore course descriptions from an unidentified academic institution's catalog.
Correspondence related to the publication of Gillespie's book on Korson, plus a photocopy of a letter from Korson reporting on the progress of planning the Folk Festival (1936).
Correspondence between Gillespie and various individuals in his efforts to publish Korson's biography. Also includes related materials, plus handwritten notes on the original file folder.
Photocopy of typed bibliography with handwritten notes (part of the photocopy).
Complete issue, plus s photocopy of the article (from the same issue) on Gillespie's book.
Letter from the executive secretary of the 1935 National Folk Festival to the president of Bucknell University (hosting the festival), plus a letter to Gillespie from Jack Pickering, and pages with handwritten notations. All folder contents are photocopies.
Handwritten letter from Archie Green to Gillespie, handwritten and typed notes, a publication with an article on coal mining in Wales, and typed manuscript pages with handwritten notations from "Chapter II" (either Gillespie's dissertation or his book), a handwritten draft of a note to Rae Korson from Gillespie, and an original typed letter (signed) from Don Yoder reporting that Gillespie's dissertation has been approved. The folder's original heading was "Rae Korson."
Handwritten notes and photocopies
Typed and handwritten notes
Photocopies, including correspondence to and about Korson and folk festivals with which he was involved
Photocopies and handwritten information. Includes an original program from the Pennsylvania German Folk Festival (1936) and an original copy of Pennsylvania Folk Songs and Ballads for School Camp and Playground (1937).
Photocopy of a newspaper clipping
Photocopy of a newspaper clipping
Rejection letters from publishers to whom Gillespie submitted his book on Korson.
Photocopies of published abstracts, and the prefatory material from a published book.
Original copy; published for the American Folklore Society
Photocopies of a local newspaper column by Korson
"The historical mind and the literary imagination," by Arthur Schlesinger, Jr. (pages taken from an issue of The Atlantic).
Two typed copies of an essay by Andreoni, "New Brunswick: a bicentennial quartet."
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Photocopy of A Description of the George Korson Folklore Archive, compiled by Judith Tierney, King's College; includes handwritten notes by an unidentified person
Original typed copy of "My encounter with George Korson and the McBee Keysort System," written by Marjorie Kraus, a student in Gillespie's American Studies 490 class.
Photocopy of a published essay by Korson
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Photocopied newspaper clipping (a review of a book by Botkin)
Photocopy of Judith Tierney's description of the Korson archive at King's College, handwritten notes, and a brochure on microfilms
Photocopies, original publications, and handwritten notes
Original newspaper and magazine clippings
Photocopies and original publications used as source material, plus a typed draft of Chapter 1 of Gillespie's book, with handwritten notes
Published articles from The New Yorker
Photocopied pages from a published work by R. Serge Denisoff
Handwritten notes, photocopied and original source material, and newspaper clippings.
Photocopied source material and newspaper clippings
Handwritten notes and photocopies of published source material
Photocopies of published source material, handwritten notes, an original copy of the announcement for a New Democratic Coalition convention, and a handwritten book report by Marcus Smith (a student).
Photocopies of published source material, original newspaper and magazine clippings, and handwritten notes
Photocopied newspaper clippings
A typed version of an obituary for Con Carbon (originally published in a newspaper), and photocopies of a newspaper clipping
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Photocopied newspaper clipping
An item of correspondence to Gillespie, an invoice for a movie screening, handwritten notes, and original newspaper clippings
Publications about coal and its impact and an original newspaper clipping
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Original typed copy of a speech given at the Folklore Institute of America. See box-folder 29/15.
Photocopy of Korson's transcript
Photocopied page from Pennsylvania History (journal).
Source materials (originals and photocopies), plus typed documents.
Official copyright registration document for Gillespie's dissertation
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Published and unpublished source material (photocopies)
Printed information related to dissertation work in general
Issued by the University of Pennsylvania Graduate School of Arts and Sciences
Printed, blank forms
Typed, photocopied and original source material (including newspaper clippings), plus correspondence to Gillespie.
Information about the Balch Institute, handwritten notes, and a typed letter (signed) from Sen. Hugh Scott (R-PA) to Gillespie.
Brief, handwritten genealogy charts for Korson's family
Photocopy of a published article about Jesse Fell's experiment with coal
Source material about selected festivals, plus an original program for the 1949 Pennsylvania Folk Festival (under the direction of George Korson)
Photocopy of a published article, and handwritten notes
Photocopied pages from Anglo-American Folksong Scholarship Since 1898, by D.K. Wilgus
Correspondence and related materials that document Gillespie's efforts to secure funding to complete his doctoral dissertation
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Transcript of Gillespie's interview with Green (1973), plus photocopied newspaper clippings, and handwritten notes
Korson's typed essays submitted as part of the application for a Guggenheim Fellowship, and a brochure about the archaeology program at King's College
Photocopied pages from a published book
Original magazine article pages and newspaper clippings
Typed essay by Korson regarding his heart attack in 1950 and subsequent events, and a published one-page essay from Time magazine about President Lyndon Johnson's heart attack (1973).
A catalog from the University of Chicago Press, plus an order form and envelope
Original and photocopied source materials for Gillespie's book on Korson, along with typed draft pages from the section on Korson's early years
Original copy of an article on the Cornwall mines (Lebanon County, Pennsylvania) from the Sunday magazine section of The Philadelphia Inquirer
Original newspaper and magazine clippings
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Photocopied pages with some of Korson's writings as president of the Pennsylvania Folklore Society
Photocopied newspaper clippings, with coverage of Korson's donation of his collection to King's College
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Photocopied, published source material
Photocopied newspaper article, with a letter to the editor from Sarah Gertrude Knott. LeMon and Korson collaborated on two books, and questions arose and were challenged regarding whose was the critical contribution.
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Photocopied page from a publication, listing established New York literary agents, plus a handwritten note to Gillespie, possibly by Judith Tierney
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Photocopied newspaper clippings
Receipt from McBee systems for keysort cards
Promotional brochures, postcards, and photocopied newspaper clippings
Original newspaper and magazine clippings, plus handwritten, and correspondence. One item of correspondence accompanied by a photo of Jane Fonda, with a humorous explanation.
An original program for "Nobody Hears a Broken Heart" (a play about the Molly Maguires, from 1973), research material photocopied from published sources, handwritten notes, correspondence, and related materials. Includes 4 black-and-white still photos from the film "The Molly Maguires" (1970).
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Small black and white maps, handwritten notes, a photocopied newspaper clipping, and geographic-historical publications. See Subseries P for oversize maps.
70 black-and-white 35mm negative strips, 1 black-and-white contact sheet, and 16 photographic prints (gelatin; 5 in. x 7 in. and smaller), documenting coal mining and other activities. Some photos are part of page proofs with captions for photos in Gillespie's book on Korson. Copies of photos from the book (35mm film strip).
11 black-and-white photos and 1 color photo (4 in. x 6 in. or smaller). Some photos are part of page proofs with captions for photos in Gillespie's book on Korson. Handwritten notes, some on the verso of photos. Also, a photo exhibit mailing, and an original paper and marker ink drawing signed by Perry Swope, depicting coal mining buildings.
Photocopies of newspaper clippings and a typed list of Kingston Coal Company photos.
When Coal was King: Mining Pennsylvania's Anthracite, by Louis Poliniak (original publication), with pen markings in text.
Page from a program with workshop summaries, from an unidentified event.
Proposal for Gillespie's book on Korson. Typed document, with some parts taped in sections to backing pages.
Photocopy of the George Korson Folklore Archive inventory, by Judith Tierney
Typed copy of the final draft for Gillespie's book on Korson
See note for box-folder 100/11. Photocopied document has notations in ink.
Photocopied newspaper clipping (1942) and a photocopied document giving an overview and details about the 14th annual National Folk Festival (1948).
Copy of a document titled "The New Left: An Introductory Bibliographical Commentary," by Robert Merideth, and related documents.
Photocopy of typed text of Benjamin Botkin's eulogy for Korson, and photocopied newspaper clippings
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Photocopied newspaper clippings (1958) and an original typed copy of Korson's speech to the Pennsylvania Folklore Society. See box-folder 29/18.
Photocopied newspaper clipping
Original and photocopied publications, and original newspaper clippings
No audiotape or transcript received for SR077 (recorded March 19, 1959). According to Judith Tierney (librarian, King's College), the original recording was loaned to someone for translation from Pennsylvania German; the man died and the tape was never returned. The number SR172 is unassigned.
Recorded in Mollystown, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
This was a group interview. Recorded while seated outside on the lawn, under a pear tree, at the home of Louis "Doc" Shaner, in Maple Hill Patch, Shenandoah, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Original ID # 2a.
Mahoney lived in Patriotic Hill, Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania.
Swirk's surname is given variously in the documentation as Sweck, Swerck, and Swert. He was from Maple Hill, Shenandoah, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Maurer lived in Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Shaner lived in Maple Hill, Shenandoah, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Original ID # 2b.
The primary topic of this interview was the Molly Maguires. Recorded at the home of Mrs. Howard Kahler, Jr., (daughter-in-law), where Mrs. Nettie Kahler also lives, RD #3, Muncy, Pennsylvania. Nettie Kahler was born February 27, 1870. Korson was the recordist, in association with Jim Bessler.
The interview begins with Hall telling a story, then Korson introduces Hall, then Hall tells the story again. Recorded at Hall's home, East Mines, Norwegian Township, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Korson was the recordist and Carl Maurer was his assistant.
Brief introduction by Carl Maurer. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Lige Hale, Georgetown Heights, Wadesville, Pennsylvania.
Jones and Pierson were interviewed together. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John B. and Elva Pierson, 105 W. Mahanoy Ave., Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Whalen's home, 133 West Pine St., Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Kissawetter's home, 131 South White St., Shenandoah, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Miller, Branchdale, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Solt, 303 Newcastle St., Minersville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. David A. "Dave" Lengle, Molleystown, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Doan was from Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Son of Mr. and Mrs. David A. "Dave" Lengle. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Luther Lengle, Molleystown, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Maurer's home, Mowry, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Carl Maurer did the initial test on the recording. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Glen Zeigenfuse, Lavelle, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Salen's home, Tremont, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Emory Artz, Keffers, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Kline's home, in Hillside, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the carpenter shop, rear of Grand Ave., Tower City, Pennsylvania. Boe lived at 1018 East Grand Ave., Tower City, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the carpenter shop/workshop, rear of Grand Ave., Tower City, Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Dutch and English are spoken. Lenker lived in Tower City, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in a hall (possibly a converted barn), Ranch Chickagawi, Sweet Arrow Lake, near Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Mrs. Dora Birmingham is from Frackville; she is daughter of Harry Felter, a miner. AFC 2003/011: SR060 is an abridged version of this recording.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Schneider, 720 Levittown Rd., Lebanon, Pennsylvania. AFC 2003/011: SR058 is an abridged version of this recording.
In the interview Kuntzer mentions the framed "Miner's Prayer," and where it hung in the Young Men's Club, its age, etc. He also reads it aloud. Recorded at the Tremont post office, Tremont, Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Stutzman and their son Paul were also present and spoke. Recorded at the farmhouse of Mr. and Mrs. William A. Stutzman, Fountain Hegins, RD #2, Hegins Valley, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the SPCA Animal Shelter, Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Ebert lived on RD 1, Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Masterson's home, 304 Wiconisco St., Tower City, Pennsylvania.
Miller is the brother of Mrs. Kuntzleman. Bonnie Reinoehl is the granddaughter of Mrs. Kuntzleman. About 54:07, a discussion about and description of coal carvings. Korson talks about the coal sculpture (dated 1856) that is now in his collection. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Kuntzleman, Fourth St., Tower City, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Lurwick's home, 206 Market St., Port Carbon, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Kline's home, RD #2, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Sherk's name was spelled "Scherk" on the take-up reel. Spancake was a clerk at the station. Recorded at the Reading Railroad Station, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Dr. H.O. Hoffman, 1 South 21st St., Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Aungst's home (a farmhouse), Twin Grove, Route #1, near Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Snyder, 68 East Pottsville St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded on the porch of Aungst's home (a farmhouse), Twin Grove, Route #1, near Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Grant Deaven, Jonestown, Route #2, Inwood, Pennsylvania.
Continued on SR025-SR026. Recorded at Leffler's home, 56 or 57 South Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Continued from SR024; continued on SR026. Recorded at Leffler's home, 56 or 57 South Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Stine worked at Millersville State Teachers College. Recorded at Paul Fidler's general store, Oak Grove, Pine Grove Township, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Davies's office, Newkirk Tunnel, one mile west of Tamaqua, Pennsylvania.
Continued from SR025. Leffler spoke in Pennsylvania Dutch. Recorded at Leffler's home, 56 or 57 South Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Dr. H.O. Hoffman is from Pottsville. Recorded at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Herring, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Continued on SR029. Recorded at Bruce Christ's home, 77 1/2 Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Continued from SR028. Recorded at Bruce Christ's home, 77 1/2 Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Squire and Mrs. Oren G. Umholtz, Valley View, Pennsylvania.
Recorded on the porch at Otto's home, Fountain, Hegins, RD #2, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in the board room, Summit Hill Trust Company Bank, Summit Hill, Carbon County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in Cunningham's shop. He lived at 27 West White St., Summit Hill, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Lee E. Schrope, Hegins, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in the garden, at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Frank W. Houser, 125 East Broad St., Williamstown, Dauphin County, Pennsylvania.
Sultzbach was a minister; his name was given as "Rev. Dr. Sultzbach" on the take-up reel. Recorded at the home of Dr. and Mrs. D.I. Sultzbach, 2226 Tilman St., Allentown, Pennsylvania.
Henninger was superintendent of Schuylkill County schools. Recorded at his office.
A small amount of the next interview can be heard at end of this recording, recorded at a different speed. Recorded at Lengel's farmhouse, Pine Grove, #1, Pennsylvania.
Interview continued on SR036. Recorded at Kantner's home, 62 North Main St., Pine Grove, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Interview continued from SR035. Recorded at Kantner's home, 62 North Main St., Pine Grove, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Adams's home, Zerbe Post Office, Zerbe, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
This recording is duplicated in part on SR058. Recorded at the Pine Grove office of the West Schuylkill Press. Green lived at 4 Cherry St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Haldeman's drugstore, 136 South Tulpehocken St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Adams's home, 280 South Main St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the barroom of William Boyd Sr. and William Boyd Jr., Donaldson, Frailey Township, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Florence Minnich (Charles Harner's niece), 14 Union St., Tremont, Pennsylvania. Harner lived at Shamokin, RD #1, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in the basement, Pottsville Free Public Library, Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Lamont lived at 1923 West Norwegian St., Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln, Donaldson, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Patterson's home, 714 Mahantongo St., Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Trevorton High School, 701 Shamokin St., Trevorton, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Wertz's general store, Lincoln, near Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Harvey L. Snider (Mrs. Snider is Breiner's daughter), Straus Valley, West Penn Township, Carbon County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in the board room, Summit Hill Trust Company, 2 East Ludlow St., Summit Hill, Pennsylvania. Redline lived in the apartment above the bank.
The name is spelled "Farquar" on the original take-up reel. Recorded in the basement, Pottsville Free Public Library, Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded in the basement, Pottsville Free Public Library, Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Haas lived at 560 Sunbury St., Minersville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Achenbach, 78 High St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Harry C. Jennings, 60 Schuylkill St., Cressona, Pennsylvania.
Frank Troutman is Mrs. Lash's father. Recorded at the home of Mrs. Walter Lash, 324 Laurel St., Minersville, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at City Hall, Lansford, Pennsylvania. Williams lived at 35 Coal St., Lansford, Pennsylvania.
Identified as Mrs., not Miss, on the original take-up reel. Recording continued on SR049. Recorded at Hazleton Public Library, Hazleton, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Schwenk's home, 1 Pleasant Row, Schuylkill Haven, Pennsylvania.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR048. Recording continued from SR048. Recorded at Hazleton Public Library, Hazleton, Pennsylvania.
McDonald is Mrs. Moran's mother. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Francis Moran, 111 Third St., Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Pottsville Free Public Library, Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Bigler lived at 302 Fairview St., Pottsville, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Coskey's workshop, Pikes Peak, Sweet Valley, near Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR047 (part 2). Recorded at home of Mrs. Walter Lash, 324 Laurel St., Minersville, Pennsylvania.
Rosenblatt is Rae Korson's brother (George Korson's brother-in-law). Recorded at home of Mr. and Mrs. Ray Evelan, Noxen, Pennsylvania.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR053, part 1. Part of SR053 can be heard at the end of the recording. Recorded at Patience's home, 82 Looma St., Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at Patience's home, 82 Looma St., Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
Continued on AFC 2003/011: SR055-SR056. Recorded at the studio of the American National Red Cross, Washington, D.C. Feeley lived in New Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR054, and continued on AFC 2003/011: SR056. See notes for SR054.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR054-SR055. See notes for SR054.
See notes for AFC 2003/011: SR054.
The surname is spelled "Snyder" on the take-up reel. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Schneider, 720 Levittown Rd., Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Dub copy. See AFC 2003/011: SR015.
Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR061.
Henninger was superintendent of Schuylkill County schools. Recorded at his office. Duplicated from AFC 2003/011: SR035.
Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Herring, Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Duplicated from AFC 2003/011: SR027.
Recorded at the Pine Grove office of the West Schuylkill Press. Green lived at 4 Cherry St., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Duplicated from AFC 2003/011: SR038.
324 Laurel St., Minersville, Pennsylvania. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR062.
Continued on AFC 2003/011: SR059. Recorded at the home of Ralph M. Hyle, "Fair Winds," Bird Hill Rd., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Sholley lived in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR065.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR058. Recorded at the home of Ralph M. Hyle (spelled "Kyle" on the take-up reel), "Fair Winds," Bird Hill Rd., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Sholley lived in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. Dub copy. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR061.
Recorded at the office of the Inside Superintendent of the Newkirk Tunnel. Morgan lived at 438 East Broad St., Tamaqua, Pennsylvania. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR065.
Recorded at Ranch Chickagawi, Sweet Arrow Lake, near Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Birmingham was from Frackville, Pennsylvania. Dub copy. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR015.
Recorded at the home of John Mayers, Llewellyn Rd., Minersville, Pennsylvania. Haas also lived on Llewellyn Rd., Minersville, Pennsylvania. Duplicated in abridged version from AFC 2003/011: SR063.
Recorded at the home of Dr. Harry Hoffman, Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Kimmel was from Keffers, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the office of the Inside Superintendent of the Newkirk Tunnel. Morgan lived at 438 East Broad St., Tamaqua, Pennsylvania. AFC 2003/011: SR059 contains an abridged version of this recording.
Recorded at Burke's home, 104 West Hancock St., St. Clair, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at her home, 324 Laurel St., Minersville, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. AFC 2003/011: SR058 contains an abridged version of this recording.
Recorded at the home of John Mayers, Llewellyn Rd., Minersville, Pennsylvania. Haas also lived on Llewellyn Rd., Minersville, Pennsylvania. AFC 2003/011: SR060 contains an abridged version of this recording.
Recorded at Stutzman's store, Donaldson, Pennsylvania.
Sholley sings in Pennsylvania German. Recorded at the home of Ralph M. Hyle, "Fair Winds," Bird Hill Rd., Pine Grove, Pennsylvania. Sholley was from Lebanon, Pennsylvania. The first part is duplicated on AFC 2003/011: SR058, with the balance duplicated on AFC 2003/011: SR059.
All interviews were recorded at the Williamsport Technical Institute, Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
John Gregar's father was Steve Gregar. John Gregar lived on Bloomingrove Rd., Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
Miller was from Saltzburg, Pennsylvania.
Ralph Hayes, of Washington, is with Korson. Recorded at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Lynch, 602 Montgomery St., Laurel, MD.
Broehl (Dartmouth College) is with Korson. Recorded at Stutzman's store, Donaldson, Pennsylvania.
Recorded at the home of Fletcher Collins, Pennyroyal Farm, Staunton, Virginia
The tape housing has "Putnam," with a question mark elsewhere; "John Putnam" appears on the take-up reel. Recorded at the home of Fletcher Collins, Pennyroyal Farm, Staunton, Virginia.
Continued on AFC 2003/011: SR072.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR071.
The subjects are three of the four children of John A. Murphy, Dickson City, Pennsylvania, coal miner/singer. Recorded at the sound studios, Washington, D.C.
Continued on AFC 2003/011: SR075. Recorded at the home of Gerberich's son, Dr. Albert H. Gerberich, Jr., 7912 Radnor Rd., Bethesda, MD.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR075; continued on AFC 2003/011: SR076. Recorded at the home of Gerberich's son, Dr. Albert H. Gerberich, Jr., 7912 Radnor Rd., Bethesda, MD.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR074-SR075. Recorded at the home of Gerberich's son, Dr. Albert H. Gerberich, Jr., 7912 Radnor Rd., Bethesda, MD.
Recorded in Heaton, NC. LWO 2295, WO 26756; AFC 2003/011: SR078-085 are part of this work order (eight reels, total). At about 28:55 the speed changes. The recording may have been dubbed from sound disc recordings.
LWO 2295, WO 26757, Reel 22. May have been dubbed from discs.
LWO 2295, WO 26758; listed as Reel 3 of 3. May have been dubbed from discs.
LWO 2295, WO 26860. African American singing for majority (all?) of recording; may have hand-clapping songs included.
Miss Terrell; John Lomax. Korson can be heard on parts of the recording. LWO 2295, WO 26863 or 26865
LWO 2295, WO 26931.
Possibly L49, "The Ballad Hunter, Parts I and II."
Possibly L49, "The Ballad Hunter, Parts I and II."
Copy of original recordings.
The documentation indicates these are "coal mining songs, mostly bituminous."
"Rough copy" of original recording.
Recorded by Library of Congress, Division of the Blind, circa 1962. The number 3199-4-1 appears on the take-up reel. Jane Weatherford may be the reader.
Recorded by Library of Congress, Division of the Blind, circa 1962. The number 3199-4-2 appears on the take-up reel. Jane Weatherford may be the reader.
Recorded by Library of Congress, Division of the Blind, circa 1962. The number 3199-4-3 appears on the take-up reel. Jane Weatherford may be the reader.
Recorded by Library of Congress, Division of the Blind, circa 1962. The number 3199-4-4 appears on the take-up reel. Jane Weatherford may be the reader.
Interview with George Korson, and a collection of folk songs. Les Higbie, host; Leo Beldac (or Les Beldock), interviewer. Recorded in Washington, D.C., and broadcast on Voice of America. The date may be the broadcast date.
Review of George Korson's book Black Rock; Ed Cray, reviewer. The first 10 seconds of the recording is backwards (recorded on the other side of the tape). For broadcast: KPFK (2-17-61); KPFA (2-24-61); WBAI (3-61). Dub copy.
Includes an interview with George Korson. The first 10 seconds of the recording is backwards (recorded on the other side of the tape). "Folk Music of the Coal Mines" was broadcast on the radio as part of the program, "American Scene," on Voice of America.
Probably LP 61, from the AFS LP series. Reference tape of composites.
Glazer's album "Down in a coal mine" was dedicated to George Korson. Mary Barrett, librarian King's College, introduces Joe Glazer. Rae Korson was an alumna of King's College; money for use of Korson-collected funds went to buy books and records for the George Korson Folklore Archive; Angus Gillespie also made an introduction.
Recorded in Washington, D.C.
"Folk Music of the Coal Mines" was broadcast on the radio as part of the program, "American Scene," on Voice of America.
Recorded in Washington, D.C.
Recorded in Portland, Oregon.
After the 20-minute mark, the tape speeds up (the recordist changed the recording speed). Recorded in Portland, Oregon.
Daughter and son-in-law of Rae and George Korson.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR113.
Original ID #1
Performed by Bill Keating
Performed by Bill Keating
Original ID #2
Performed by Bill Keating
Performed by Bill Keating
Original ID #3
Performed by Bill Keating
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR192.
Original ID #4. All songs performed by Dan Walsh.
Original ID #5
Performed by Dan Walsh
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR120, SR132, SR144, and SR192.
Original ID #6
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR119, SR132, SR144, and SR192.
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Original ID #7
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Original ID #8
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Original ID #9
Performed by Andrew Rada
Performed by Andrew Rada
Original ID #10
Performed by Andrew Rada
Performed by Andrew Rada
Original ID #11
Performed by Albert Morgan
Performed by Dan Walsh
Original ID #12
Performed by Albert Morgan
Performed by Albert Morgan
Original ID #13
Performed by Tom "Butch" O'Brien
Performed by Joe McCarthy
Original ID #14
Performed by Joe McCarthy
Performed by John Griffin
Original ID #15
Performed by Tom Barrett and Walter Roland
Performed by Bill Hand
Original ID #16
Performed by Dan Brennan
Performed by Donald Brennan
Original ID #17
Performed by Dan Brennan
Performed by Tom Roberts
Original ID #18. See AFC 2003/011: SR119-120, SR144, and SR192.
Performed by Tom Roberts
Performed by Tom Roberts
Original ID #19
Performed by Tom Roberts
Performed by Tom Roberts
Original ID #20
Performed by Idris Jones
Performed by Idris Jones
Original ID #21
Performed by Morgan Jones
Performed by Morgan Jones
Original ID #22
Performed by Morgan Jones
Performed by John J. Quinn
Original ID #23
Performed by John J. Quinn
Performed by John J. Quinn. Recorded by George Korson in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania.
Original ID #XXIV
Performed by John J. Quinn
Performed by John J. Quinn
Original ID #XXV
Recorded by George Korson in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Recorded by George Korson in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
Original ID #I
Performed by Bill Keating
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Performed by James Muldowney
Original ID #II
Performed by Andrew Rada
Performed by Dan Brennan
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Performed by Albert Morgan
Original ID #III
Performed by John J. Quinn
Performed by Dan Walsh
Original ID #IV
Performed by John J. Quinn
Performed by Morgan Jones
Performed by James Muldowney
Original ID #V
Performed by Tom Roberts
Performed by Andrew Rada
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR119-120, SR132, and SR192.
The dancer is Mine Superintendant Stewart. See AFC 2003/011: SR192. AFC 2003/011: SR125 may be the same performance.
Original ID #VI
Performed by Jerry Byrne
Performed by Tom O'Brien
Performed by Morgan Jones
Recorded in Columbus, Ohio. Original ID #1
Performed by Bob Stewart (Nova Scotia)
Performed by Bob Stewart
Performed by Bob Stewart
Original ID #2
Performed by Shakey Robertson
Performed by George Masavage
Performed by George Masavage [?]
Performed by Bob Stewart
Performed by Richard Brahosky
Original ID #3
Performed by Charles Langford
Performed by Charles Langford and Owen C. Tolberrt
Performed by Charles Langford and Owen C. Tolberrt [?]
Original ID #4
Performed by John Cummings
unidentified performers
Original ID #5
unidentified performers
Performed by George Davis
Performed by George Davis
Original ID #6. Unidentified performers.
Original ID #7. Al songs may be performed by Cleveland Perry.
Original ID #8
Performed by Cleveland Perry
unidentified performers
Original ID #9
Performed by Marvel Quartet or Charles Langford and others - male vocal quartet
Performed by Marvel Quartet or Charles Langford and others - male vocal quartet
Original ID #10
Performed by Marvel Quartet or Charles Langford and others - male vocal quartet
Performed by Marvel Quartet or Charles Langford and others - male vocal quartet
Original ID #11
unidentified performers
unidentified performers
Original ID #12
Performed by Henry Mayfield
Performed by George Jones
Original ID #13
Performed by George Jones
The word "void" is written on label, but the disc has four bands cut into it
Original ID #14
Original ID #15
Original ID #16
Original ID #17
Original ID #18
Original ID #19. All songs performed by George Sizemore
Original ID #20. All songs performed by George Sizemore
Original ID #21
Original ID #22.
Original ID #23. Songs performed by Quartet (United Four Quartet - Gus Jones [?] and other male vocal quartet).
Original ID #24
Performed by Quartet
Performed by Quartet
Original ID #25
Original ID #26
Original ID #28
Original ID #29
Performed by David Morrison
Performed by Brown
Original ID #30. Songs performed by McGuire.
Original ID #31. Songs performed by Mrs. Thomps. [Thompson?].
Original ID #32
Performed by Haser
Performed by Fannie Sellins; Fannie Sellins
Original ID #33
Performed by Barry
Original ID #34
Performed by Russell Brown
Original ID #35
Performed by G.C. Gartin
Performed by Stanley [Achenbach?]
Original ID #36
Performed by Stanley [Achenbach?]
Performed by O.J. Jenks
Original ID #37. Songs performed by O.J. Jenks.
Original ID #40
Performed by O.J. Jenks
Performed by Evening Breeze Sextet
Original ID #41. All songs performed by O.J. Jenks.
Original ID #42
n/a
Performed by the Evening Breeze Sextet
Original ID #43
Performed by the Evening Breeze Sextet
Disc is broken.
Performed by Danny Botkin [Daniel Botkin]
Radio show segment with man talking about Congressional prayer groups, with stock music playing in background; Hop Up Ladies (fragments; song has mechanical dropouts); child singing; several children singing (song interrupted); unidentified man singing in an Irish brogue
Performed by Bob Stewart
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR117.
The dancer is Mine Superintendant Stewart. Accompanied by fiddle music. See AFC 2003/011: SR144. AFC 2003/011: SR125 may be the same performance.
Performed by Dan Walsh. See AFC 2003/011: SR119-120, SR132, and SR144.
Recitation of a poem by an unidentified man
A man speaks a few lines; possibly intended to be a letter or a message.
Titles supplied by the AFC processor.
Also known as The Battle of New Orleans. The recording ends abruptly.
The title is unconfirmed. May be "Charlie is a Dandy."
Children singing, with a man giving a spoken-word introduction
Children singing, with a man giving a spoken-word introduction
Children singing, with a man giving a spoken-word introduction. The recording ends abruptly.
Unidentified man reading a story
Original ID #III
Miss Roach testifying (?) about the mine workers welfare fund. Possibly part of "Labor and the Nation."
John Herlin (?) interviews Mr. Hinton (a coal miner from Betsy Lane, Kentucky) and another, unidentified miner. Interviews took place at the George Washington University Hospital. The recording cuts off at the end.
Original ID #IV
John Herling (narrator) explains why miners are at the hospital for treatment, and the role of the miners welfare fund in making it possible. See AFC 2003/011: SR196.
Herling's narration continues. One of the patients, Rev. Archie Conway (Mann, WV), sings "A Coal Miner's Goodbye" (his own composition). Herling briefly interviews Korson. See AFC 2003/011: SR199b for the same recording.
Man and woman sing a duet, accompanied by a banjo (?)
John Herling interviews Mr. Weaver (a miner at George Washington University Hospital).
See AFC 2003/011: SR197b for the same recording.
Both songs performed by Dan Walsh (Centralia, Pennsylvania)
All songs performed by Jerry Byrne (Buck Run, Schuykill County, Pennsylvania). He announces the song as "When the breaker starts up on full-time."
John Herling interviews miners who are patients at George Washington University Hospital. Includes a recording (copied from another source) of John L. Lewis testifying in a Congressional hearing.
Continued from AFC 2003/011: SR202, Side A
Both songs performed by Dan Walsh (Centralia, Pennsylvania)
Dub of a commercial recording: a man sings a Christian song
Unidentified female singer, accompanied by guitar
Unidentified female singer, accompanied by guitar
Unidentified female singer, accompanied by guitar. See AFC 2003/011: SR204 for the same recording.
Unidentified female singer, accompanied by guitar. See AFC 2003/011: SR204 for the same recording.
Narrator begins a description of three frescoes dedicated to Carl Sandburg, and begins to recite a poem. The recording cuts off abruptly.
Dub of a radio program. Christian songs performed by an unidentified man. Titles supplied by the AFC processor.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR198.
Unidentified male performer, accompanied by guitar. Titles on Side B provided by the AFC processor.
The singer introduces the song by saying it is from the singing of Leith [?] Parker, sung to the tune of "The Wreck of the C & O Number Five."
Possibly a dub of other sound disc recordings. All songs performed by Jerry Byrne.
Performed by Dan Walsh
Performed by Dan Walsh
Both songs performed by Dan Walsh
Unidentified man singing and playing guitar.
Recording of music on the radio or played on a phonograph, with someone humming along.
Performed by Paul Prichard [?]; a humorous version of "I Wonder How the Old Folks Are At Home."
A woman and child speak.
Performed by United Four Quartet [?]
Performed by United Four Quartet [?]
All songs performed in Spanish by Eduardo Gallegos (coal miner from Albuquerque, NM), with guitar accompaniment
Composed by Eduardo Gallegos
An unidentified man recites part of a poem.
Possibly part of a radio soap opera, music clips, etc.
Recitation of a poem by an unidentified man
Performed in Spanish by Eduardo Gallegos, with guitar accompaniment
Performed by Dan Walsh
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR213.
An unidentified girl recites a series observations and requests. Possibly recorded from the radio.
Recorded from one or more radio shows on NBC. Segments include a poem recited by Betsy Korson.
Both sides were recorded from one or more radio shows. Segments include poetry recited by Betsy Korson.
An unidentified girl recites a series observations and requests. Possibly recorded from the radio.
Both sides were recorded from one or more radio shows. Segments include spoken-word performances by Betsy Korson.
Recorded from a children's radio show on NBC. Segments include poetry recited by Betsy Korson.
Recorded from a children's radio show on NBC. Segments include poetry recited by Betsy Korson.
Introduced by Bill Keating; sung by "the chorus" (a men's chorus), with soloists taking turns.
Performed the Welsh Male Chorus; the soloist is Thomas C. Roberts.
Sung by an unidentified man, to humorous effect.
Part of a radio broadcast, presumed to be about the attack on Pearl Harbor.
Possibly various brief segments of radio shows.
George, Rae, and Betsy Korson record a message for a young relative named Brucie. Another man introduces them, possibly Brucie's father.
Recited by William J. Patton, vice-president of the United Mine Workers of America, District 5.
Brief recording made by an unidentified man for Betsy Korson.
Performed in Spanish by Eduardo Gallegos, with guitar accompaniment; the song ends abruptly.
Various clips of recordings.
Recited by William J. Patton. First part of the poem.
Both sides of the disc are recordings made during the holiday by members of Korson's brother's family, December 25, 1942.
See note for AFC 2003/011: SR228.
This cassette accompanied correspondence from Dick Spottswood, dated September 8, 1966. See box-folder 26/3.
See note for Series 2.
Photos of Korson, some of his friends, and the men with whom he served. Portraits plus photos of work activity. See photo album for related images. All images have been printed to be used as postcards. Five images are inscribed on the verso by Korson and his friends.
See box-folder 95/1 for two similar images.
12 photos plus one duplicate (PH030). PH028 and PH029 are copies of PH027.
Window display in Gimbels department store, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. All photos but one are black and white; the color photo has faded. Three copies of PH061. See box-folder 94/5 for related images.
Most of the photos have descriptions handwritten or typed on the verso, and are credited to Skippy Adelman, Black Star (photo agency). PH080 and PH084 have two copies each.
Photos taken at a picnic lunch.
The event took place at the Israeli embassy, in Washington, D.C.
Two copies each of PH156, PH174, and PH176-177. Most photos have descriptions written on the verso.
Two copies each of PH213, and PH218-220, and three copies each of PH207 and PH216-217. Most photos have descriptions written on the verso. See box-folder 94/10 for a similar image to PH232.
Includes studio portraits and publicity-oriented photos of Korson. Two color photos; the rest are black and white. PH245 and PH251 have four copies, PH258 and PH261 have three copies, and PH262 has two copies.
Primarily Korson and his family, but also includes photos of friends and associates as well. Two copies each of PH277, PH292, PH308, and PH310.
Photos of people Korson recorded for his research. Three copies of PH313, and two copies each of PH316 and PH318.
Laborers, singers, dancers, scenery, collieries, folk art, and related images. Two copies each of PH331, PH341, PH360-361, and PH363.
Includes Photos of Korson holding the coal sculpture in this collection. Two copies each of PH355-357.
Photos include Mr. and Mrs. Caspar Weis at their home, and photos of other people in and around Minnequa, Pennsylvania. The stereo images are mounted on a card; the other photos are unmounted. Photos from box-folder 46/2.
Students at Trevorton (Pennsylvania) High School pose in front of a table of coal or coal objects. The class was taking a course in coal carving, taught by Charles H. Horner (veteran miner) and sponsored by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). The second, smaller photo (3 1/2 in. x 3 1/2 in.) is of Helga Sandburg posed to play guitar. This photo was found in the book Measure My Love, received with the collection from King's College. Another copy of the same photo of Helga, plus a photo of her father Carl Sandburg (also posed to play guitar) were found in the book Best poems of 1961, also received with the collection from King's College
Photo credit: Skippy Adelman. Items are unnumbered.
Copy negatives and a two-frame piece of 35mm still image film. The copy negatives were created by AFC for various publications and presentations. Items are unnumbered.
See Box 102, sub-box 1 for the photo album.
Annotated photo album with images from Korson's time in Palestine while he served with the British Fusiliers. It is assumed he took the photos, which include scenes of daily life (men, women, and children), a Jewish cemetery, architecture, animals, transportation, and executions. See accompany document with printouts of photographed scrapbook pages, which have the ID numbers assigned at AFC.
Items that arrived at AFC in frames were unframed and treated by Library of Congress Conservation staff.
The photo depicts items in a glass display case (Songs and Ballads of the Anthracite Miners and a price of $3 appears on a sign in the case), with copies of the book plus photos and artifacts arranged on a table.
Matted photo of Korson and Alfred M. Gruenther, then president of the American Red Cross. The photo is inscribed to Korson, on the day of Korson's retirement from the Red Cross.
Matted photo of items in a window display ("Coal Souvenirs" appears on a sign in the display). The colors in the photo have faded.
Mounted photo of miners in work clothing and helmets, in Chattanooga, TN. A typed caption is incorporated into the image beneath the photo (probably via copy negative).
The photo depicts items in a Gimbel's display window, to celebrate Pennsylvania week. This was the location of Gimbels (department store) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Left to right: Korson, Arthur Kaufmann (who signed the photo), and a man holding Frank Warner's autographed banjo (which Korson also signed). Korson and Kaufman each hold a book.
Head shot of Korson (studio portrait).
Similar to #4 but smaller and without the caption. Image is cracked and has emulsion damage due to several creases.
Korson and fellow soldiers posed near a plane in a hangar, in Palestine. Writing on the photo, including a small arrow mark, possibly in grease pencil.
Matted photo with text affixed to mat in paper strips. The event was the dedication of the Boochever Library, at the American National Red Cross headquarters.
Matted photo with two newsprint clippings affixed to the mat. The image shows Korson (incoming president of the Pennsylvania Folklore Society) shaking hands with Henry W. Shoemaker (retiring president). The clippings are from The Evening News, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Matted photo with caption typed on paper and affixed to mat. Korson appears in a group photo, on the day of a luncheon in his honor.
Matted photo with caption typed on paper and affixed to mat. Left to right: Mary Barrett, Rev. Lane D. Kilburn, and Korson, on the event of his donation of his fieldwork and collections to King's College.
Matted photo and caption. Left to right: Richard M. Dorson, Korson, R.D. Jameson, Vance Randolph, Archer Taylor, and Stith Thompson. Photo taken at a picnic in Brown County, Indiana, part of the Folklore Institute of America. Also in the folder: a sheet of paper noting that the item was (at that time) on loan to the Library of Congress (October 27, 1958) and program for the Folklore Institute of America (June 11-August 8, 1958).
Matted photo and caption. Left to right: Mrs. Omar Burleson, Korson, Mrs. Daniel J. Flood).
Matted photo with caption typed on paper and affixed to mat. Fellows of the American Folklore Society.
Photograph taken from on top of the Wilkes-Barre recording building. Left to right: Edward Seybold, Albert Lentz, Charles A. Berry, George Korson; photographed before going to serve in WWI. Removed from original mat (stored with the photo). Accompanied by a laminated card, with calligraphed information about the photo.
Two photos in one mat. Photos of men outdoors posing by a tipple shanty and other buildings, Oak Hill colliery, Minersville, Pennsylvania. See Series 3 for images from the same colliery.
A group of Pennsylvania anthracite miner "bards and folk minstrels," at the National Folk Festival.
Panorama photo taken at the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Historical Association, at Lehigh University. Accompanying the item are an envelope addressed to Korson and a typed slip (signed) to acknowledge that Korson has applied for charter membership and paid annual dues.
Korson receiving ribbon from Col. Ram Ron.
Mementos of Korson's service in Palestine, affixed to a mat.
Matted photo. Korson with miners (one playing a fiddle) in Newkirk Tunnel, Tamaqua, Pennsylvania, during a Library of Congress field trip.
"New St. Nicholas Breaker," by Nicholas Bervinchak. Possibly an original etching.
"Bootlegging Coal" (1938), by Nicholas Bervinchak. Possibly an original etching.
"Belching Steel Stacks," 1939 (trial proof), by Nicholas Bervinchak. Item has two tears, now mended.
Color and pen illustration, with accompanying text: to Korson from Frances Lichten, via Katherine Milhous (her art and handwriting).
Items have been rehoused by Library of Congress Conservation staff.
Bust depicting a woman from an African country, carved in 1856 by F.A. Weiser (a cutter; Minersville, Pennsylvania) Parts of the object are missing (e.g., it was originally mounted on a vase); photographic documentation suggests since at latest the 1950s. According to Korson, the bust was carved from anthracite coal. See box-folder 99/11 for details.
The Fotoware plate was created as a souvenir of the coal fields. Vachel Davis painted the portrait of a miner, which appears on the plate's central area. The painting was copyrighted in 1947. The plate was broken and repaired before arriving as part of the Korson collection at AFC.
Collection of manuscripts, sound recordings, graphic materials, moving images and artifacts representing the life work of folk arts administrator, folklorist, filmmaker, musician, and teacher Bess Lomax Hawes. The bulk of the collection materials date from 1960 through 2000 and document Hawes’s work as a professor in the anthropology department at San Fernando Valley State College, as a coordinator for the Smithsonian Institution’s Festival of American Folklife, and as the first head of the National Endowment for the Arts Folk Arts Program. The collection also includes documentation of Hawes’s family life and work as a musician and teacher.
Formats include correspondence, writings and speeches, musical transcriptions, school records, memos, business records, reports, teaching materials, travel documentation, field and research notes, clippings, awards, sound recordings, moving images, photographs, and artwork.
Collection of more than 500 audio recordings, plus digital audio files, video recordings, film, photographs, papers, and ephemera documenting the history of the Caffè Lena coffeehouse, a folk music club and theater in Saratoga Springs, New York, founded by Lena Spencer and Bill Spencer in 1960. The collection includes a large number of live concert performance recordings by folk musicians and singer-songwriters, as well as some theater, storytelling, and poetry performances. The collection also includes folk music radio programs produced from Caffè Lena concerts by Robert Durand and others. Some materials were gathered by Jocelyn Arem while conducting research on the history of Caffè Lena, and the collection includes drafts and page proofs of Arem's book, Caffè Lena: Inside America's Legendary Folk Music Coffeehouse (2013).
Digital items received from the donor are not yet processed. The item ID information in the finding aid refers to the physical items, as the digital item IDs are different from the analog item IDs.
Correspondence from various individuals regarding Caffè Lena, its management, and Lena Spencer's legacy.
See note for folder 1/1
Printouts of emails and other documents, some of which help identify individuals in photos taken by Joe Alper.
Includes broadcast permission forms for WMHT, a Caffè Lena menu, typed histories of Caffè Lena, newspaper articles, announcements, etc. Photos from this folder, plus a photo ID related to images elsewhere in the collection, have been relocated to the folder "Caffè Lena: history (photos)," in Series 3.
Includes planning documents, notes, contact lists, etc.
At least one recipe (from Rosalie Sorrels) was given to Spencer. The rest may be in Spencer's handwriting, and originally hers.
Two laminated menus from 1997 and one paper menu (undated).
Program and related materials
Photocopies include materials from 1972-1989. Research notes date from circa 2003-2005.
Jocelyn Arem's senior Capstone project at Skidmore College. The velo-bound document is an ethnography and oral history account. Copy 1 has handwritten notes at the back.
See note for folder 1/11.
Letters to the Caffè Lena Board, meeting notes, project goals, etc.
Includes names, lists, correspondence, and other documentation.
Includes both plans and Jocelyn Arem's research on other exhibits.
1 flyer, giving the statement of intent, rules, etc.
Photocopies of articles about the reopening of the hall, and related materials. Lena Spencer was one of three people who leased the hall when it reopened.
A one-page program/summary for the production.
A professionally-printed compilation of poems.
Poetry written as part of a workshop held at Caffè Lena in 2011.
Skidmore College granted Lena Spencer an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters in 1987.
1 promotional flyer.
Two copies of the proclamation, in presentation folders.
Includes Caffè Lena newsletters from 1961 and 1962, as well as media coverage regarding performers and the venue itself. A letter to Lena Spencer from Kenneth E. King (commissioner of public safety), dated January 24, 1968, is included. No materials for 1963-1964 and 1969-1970. All materials are photocopies or thermofaxes.
Includes media coverage for performers and the venue, as well such materials as programs (e.g., "The Mousetrap," staged in 1978, a typed letter from Lena Spencer requesting financial support from friends of Caffè Lena, sent in 1981, a color photocopy of a proclamation declaring May 19, 1985 as Lena Spencer Day in Saratoga Springs, New York, etc.). No materials for 1982. All materials are photocopies.
Includes media coverage for performers and the venue, as well such materials as a mock-up for the cover of the brochure "Caffè Lena: the second thirty years," and numerous tributes to Lena Spencer. Almost all materials are photocopies, except a few original articles. An original issue of "Eye on Saratoga" has been relocated to box 17 (a photocopy remains in this folder).
Includes media coverage for performers and the venue, as well such materials as copies of the brochure "Caffè Lena: the second thirty years" and a letter to friends of Caffè Lena announcing it would be sold to a non-profit organization (1990), an original flyer for the 4th annual Caffè Lena Folk-A-Thon (1993), an original issue of Bluegrass (magazine), with an article on Caffè Lena (1993), a copy of the minutes of a 1995 meeting (printed on orange paper), and photocopies of Board meeting minutes (1995). A significant majority of the materials are photocopies.
Includes tickets, programs, brochures, and other materials, and documentation and publicity related to the fund-raising campaign to buy the building, etc. Contents are a combination of original and duplicated materials. Two ads for the fund-raising event, created on film, have been relocated to Series 3.
Includes newspaper articles (photocopies and printouts).
Includes copies of a fax sent to Bernice Johnson Reagon from Abigail Reid, the faxed response from Reagon, photocopies of newspaper clippings, and related materials.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), plus related documentation of Caffè Lena's history, and a printed, general thank you to Caffè Lena supporters.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), a tribute to Alfredo Lombardi, etc.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), a certificate naming Caffè Lena as the best coffeehouse in the Capital Region for 2002, etc.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), etc.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), etc.
Includes newspaper clippings (original and photocopies), a laminated menu, a flyer for the production of Two Gentlemen of Verona, etc.
Includes newspaper clippings (photocopies), promotional materials for various companies, etc.
Includes newspaper clippings and publications (original and photocopies).
Includes newspaper clippings (original and a photocopy).
Includes a copy of a magazine article, two copies of the Poetry Festival program, and two copies of the Chowderfest Chanty Sing.
Includes articles (one original and one photocopy), a membership flyer for Caffè Lena, and a flyer for a poetry festival.
Includes newspaper clippings (photocopies and one original).
Includes original clippings from magazines and newspapers on the 50th anniversary of Caffè Lena. One subfolder of photocopies, submitted to Jocelyn Arem by Joan Kosby and Paul Mercer, have a variety of dates.
Includes publicity materials for various artists. Photos have been relocated to Series 3; photocopies are in this folder.
Includes quotations compiled for publicity as well as writings by people paying tribute both to Lena Spencer and to Caffè Lena.
Various promotional items, plus a letter to New York Telephone (phone company) informing them of Lena Spencer's death.
Newspaper clippings (original and photocopies). Oversized materials have been relocated to box 17.
See note for 3/8.
Documentation of some parts of the planning phase, plus an announcement flyer, draft of the program, final program, and various notes.
Two articles, in the original published format: "Lena's Legacy: the lasting power of Caffè Lena, America's oldest continuously running folk coffeehouse," North Carolina Folklore Journal, 55, no. 1 (Spring-Summer 2008): 17-31, and "Forty-seven Years at 47 Phila Street: America's oldest continuously running folk coffeehouse," Voices: the Journal of New York Folklore, 34, nos. 1-2 (Spring-Summer 2008): 12-18. Jocelyn Arem is the historian for Caffè Lena.
Spiral-bound and index-tabbed; includes mock-ups, book and exhibit proposal, etc.
Includes early proposals and drafts, revisions, etc.
See note for folder 1/17.
Also includes Jocelyn Arem's handwritten notes.
See note for folder 1/19.
Various venues, including Caffè Lena.
This newsletter was originally titled Riffs from Lena's. All are original except as noted. Newsletter issues here include: October 1995 (#6; 3 copies), July 1996 (#6, possibly numbered in error; 3 copies), December 1997 (#9), April 1998 (#10), October 1998 (#12), January 1999 (#14), April 1999 (#15; 2 copies), November 12, 1998 (#17), February 22, 1999 (#18), July 2000 (#20; 2 copies), January 2004 (no issue number; photocopy).
Original documents, with a few photocopies. Also includes two handwritten notes, to "Sarah" from an unidentified person, and a handwritten list of calendar payments received. From the original folder "Caffè Lena Calendars, 1990-2009."
From the original folder "Caffè Lena Calendars, 1990-2009."
See note for folder 9/4.
Early version of the Caffè Lena web site.
Two set lists: one from March 5, 2006; the other undated.
Two items.
Food service survey to determine attendee preference for a one-waitress or two-waitress service system, including instructions provided for the waitresses.
Pamphlet of published works by Guy MacKenzie.
Planning document for activities to raise funds for Caffè Lena, without Lena Spencer's knowledge.
Photocopy of issue featuring a story on the 25th anniversary of Caffè Lena; related documentation accompanies the issue.
Issues spanning these years.
Four copies of a flyer for upcoming events, which includes an announcement for a benefit concert for Lena Spencer.
Correspondence and press coverage regarding the reopening of Lively Lucy's.
Expenses and related documentation.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
See note for folder 11/1.
Tax documents, payment requests, and related documentation.
Notes, correspondence, etc.
Includes handwritten notes on the documents, as well as separate, handwritten documents.
Documentation, including tax papers and handwritten notes, and balance sheets for Caffè Lena Trust Fund.
See note for folder 12/2.
Forms and documentation from New York State Department of Labor, U.S. Department of the Treasury, payroll reconciliation, W-4 forms, tax papers, etc.
Includes documents regarding expenses, petty cash reconciliation sheets, table checks, etc.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
See note for 12/4.
Includes check books, bank statements, deposit slips, and cancelled checks. Also includes Social Security documents, and a handwritten, folded chart dated January 1989 with a breakdown of payments per institution.
Documentation, including correspondence, bank checks, etc., regarding the fund set up to keep Caffè Lena in business following Lena Spencer's fall and subsequent heart attack.
Includes a photocopy of the trust agreement, a proposed management plan for the Caffè Lena Trust, a form letter to supporters, etc.
From Adirondack Trust Co.
Includes check books, statements, cancelled checks, etc., for the Lena Spencer Trust Fund.
See note for folder 14/3.
Includes copies of the resignation letter signed by five Caffè Lena employees, and the statement given in the name of the trustees at a press conference.
Spiral notebook with lined paper, filled with handwritten notes, and a few preprinted or handwritten pieces of paper added.
Manuscript materials from tape boxes, cassettes, etc. Includes clippings set lists, notes, etc. Not all audiovisual items were accompanied by manuscripts.
Three folders of clippings and sections from local and national newspapers plus an issue of Life magazine with a letter to the editor by Lena Spencer. The newspaper clippings are about Lena Spencer, Caffè Lena, and related news.
Contents were assembled from old folk music posters and flyers, and not mounted to the pages. Approximately 100 manuscript items, and two photographic items (black and white prints).
Metal spiral-bound scrapbook, with newspaper magazine clippings and printouts of digital photos on paper, mounted on heavy black paper pages. Topics range across Caffè Lena's history. About 20 pages, most with multiple items mounted on them.
Metal spiral-bound scrapbook. Decorated guest register for an exhibit marking Caffè Lena's 45th anniversary. Three pages of signatures (one is a loose page); only one pages is filled with names and addresses.
Most of the spine is missing. Contents include programs and documentation from various Caffè Lena theatrical productions, as newspaper articles, correspondence, and seemingly unrelated materials. Approximately 40 pages, with one or more items affixed to one side of each page.
Three-ring notebook with denim-like cover, containing the playbill, reviews, and photos related to the Caffè Lena production of Juno and the Paycock, by Sean O'Casey (directed by Edward Reich).
Loose pages with clippings, correspondence, and photos honoring Miss Hattie, who founded Hattie's Chicken Shack, a Saratoga Springs institution.
Digital items received from the donor are not yet processed. The item ID information in the finding aid refers to the physical items, as the digital item IDs are different from the analog item IDs.
The ID number SR479 is not assigned to any item.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0001. This may be the Sunday night recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0002. This may be the Saturday night recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0010.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0023. Tape jumps around between artists.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0004.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0005.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0007.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0008.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0009.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0006.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0003.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0018. Compilation of previously transferred tapes.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0015.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0014.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0013. First set described in engineer's transfer notes as "not available."
Original item ID: ABS B1 0011.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0012. The date is unconfirmed.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0028.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0022.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0021.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0017.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0016.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0024
Original item ID: ABS B1 0025. Recorded at an unidentified venue in Albany, New York.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0026. Guest vocals by Lena Spencer.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0029. The log for ABS B2 0001 matches the information for this recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0027. The tape box also credits Sara Grey.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0035. The log for ABS B2 0007 matches the information for this recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0033. The log for ABS B2 0005 matches the information for this recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0030. The log for ABS B2 0002 matches the information for this recording. Side A is dated 1971.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0036. The log for ABS B2 0008 matches the information for this recording. The recording of Patrick Sky was dubbed from ABS B2 0005. David Bromberg at Caffè Lena with Steven Berg on bass, and Jack Hume on dobro during the second set. Guest performance by Joel Zoss before second set. One song from a Patrick Sky set at the beginning of other side of tape (recorded at 7.5 ips, 1⁄4 track mono, dubbed from ABS B2 0005
Original item ID: ABS B1 0032 (box is labeled ABS B2 0004).
Original item ID: ABS B1 0020. Duplicate.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0019.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0031. The log for ABS B2 0003 matches the information for this recording.
Original item ID: ABS B1 0034. The log for ABS B2 0006 matches the information for this recording. Includes two sets per artist.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0010.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0019. DAT 13 and 14 may be the designations for copies of this recording.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0016. The Rosalie Sorrels set is the same as on DK B4 0021 and 0022. More than one recording date; only February 25, 1989, is documented.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0017. The Rosalie Sorrels set is the same as on DK B4 0021 and 0022. Interview with Lena probably continued from SR041.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0006.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0007. One of Gamble Rogers's last performances.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0003.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0024. "Song for Gamble" would have been for Gamble Rogers, who died October 10, 1991.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0002.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0009.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0004. Barbara Harris introduces each performer: John McCutcheon, Gamble Rogers, Michael Jerling, Tony Markellis, Steve Gillette, Cindy Mangsen, June Tabor, Mark Emerson, Pierce Pettis, Tom Chapin, Patty Larkin, Dave Van Ronk.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0014. SR039 and SR525 may be the same recording (one may be original and the other a copy).
Original item ID: WAML B3 0008. SR039 and SR525 may be the same recording (one may be original and the other a copy).
Original item ID: WAML B3 0012. Noted on documentation: DAT #1 and cassette #1.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0011.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0015. Same show as the recording on SR047 (WAML B3 0022).
Original item ID: WAML B3 0022. DAT 18: Pierce Pettis. DAT 19: John McCutcheon. See note for SR040.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0018. Recording is only about 8 minutes long.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0020. DAT 15: June Tabor and Mark Emerson. DAT 16: Michael Jerling and Tony Markellis.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0021.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0023. DAT 19: John McCutcheon. DAT 20: Tom Chapin.
Original item ID: WAML B3 0005.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0003.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0004. The MacArthur family includes Margaret's children: Megan playing bass, Gary playing fiddle, Dan playing guitar.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0005. See note for SR051.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0006.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0007.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0008. Last song recorded at 3.75 ips, machine recalibrated for transfer of last song.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0009.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0010.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0011.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0012.
Original item ID: 20th B4 0013.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0002. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0003. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0006. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0007. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0010. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1. Spelling of surnames is unconfirmed.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0011. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0016. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1. David (guitar, vocals, flute, etc.), Charles Chip (guitar and banjo).
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0017. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0018. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0020. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 1.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0001. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0004. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0005. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0008. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0009. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0012. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0013. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0014. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0015. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original item ID: RD ZBS B5 0019. From The Caffè Lena Show (radio broadcast), season 2.
Original materials collected by Lena Spencer. SR371-389 donated by Mary Hermance. SR390-397 donated by Peter Davis. SR398-408 donated by Scarlett. SR409-410 donated by Skip Penk's sister. SR411 donated by Ellen Tanner.
Probably Kate and Anna McGarrigle. Recorded at Caffè Lena.
The group Cranberry Lake Pickin' and Singin' Society later changed their name to Cranberry Lake Jug Band.
Band members: Steve Slottow (fiddle), Sandy Stark (fiddle), Brian Williams (banjo), Joe Rickard (guitar), Molly Stouten (bass fiddle).
Welling and Wallach recorded on July 10; Greg Clarke recorded on July 2.
Various artists (Arlo Guthrie and the Shenandoah Band, hosted by Linda and Robin Williams).
Ringer and McCaslin recorded on November 6; MacArthur recorded on November 10.
Rosalie recorded at Caffè Lena (April 2, 1978). George and Vaughn Ward recorded at 8th Step (April 1978).
Part or all recorded at Caffè Lena. Recorded on two dates; only one of the dates is known.
The year is conjectural.
Eric Schoenberg recorded on November 3-4 at 8th Step; Ringer and McCaslin recorded November 6 at Caffè Lena.
Cohen recorded at Caffè Lena on January 12; Sorrels recorded at 8th Step on January 19.
Staines recorded February 17 at 8th Step; Redpath recorded February 18 at Caffè Lena.
Not recorded at Caffè Lena.
Fox Hollow recorded on an unidentified date in August 1979 at Caffè Lena. Faith Petric recorded on August 15 at Caffè Lena.
Faith Petric recorded on August 15 at Caffè Lena; Greg Clarke recorded on an unidentified date in August at Caffè Lena.
See note for SR083.
Unannounced artists live at an unidentified venue (not Caffè Lena), for a tribute/benefit for Lena. Includes Kate and Anna McGarrigle.
SR377 and SR378 may be recordings from one concert.
Bill Staines, announced artists; Robin and Linda Williams, hosts; live at a venue other than Caffè Lena; a benefit for Lena Spencer and Caffè Lena.
Nick Seeger, Michael Kuni, unannounced artists; live at a venue other than Caffè Lena; a benefit for Lena Spencer and Caffè Lena.
Original reel recording housed in Billy Faier Collection held by Southern Folklife Collection,
Frankie Armstrong and Fox Hollow recorded in 1964; Jacqui and Bridie recorded in 1974. Side B is blank.
May not all be recorded at Caffè Lena.
Engineer notes that the recording may be a pre-show or post-show recording, possibly a demo of songs.
The recording of 666 is unconfirmed.
The recording of 666 is unconfirmed.
Not recorded at Caffè Lena.
Side B described as broken. Original item ID: B7 0022.
Tape described as broken. Original item ID: B7 0023.
Billy Brislane recorded on November 25 at 8th Step; Armstrong, Mitchell and Garvey recorded on November 26 at Caffè Lena.
Original item ID: DK B5 0014.
Original item ID: DK B3 0043.
Original item ID: DK B3 0044. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0033.
Original item ID: DK B5 0034. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0041. The engineer's notes indicate the recording date was May 2, 1987.
Original item ID: DK B5 0042. The engineer's notes indicate the recording date was May 8, 1987.
Side B is blank. Original item ID: DK B5 0043. The engineer's notes indicate the recording date was May 8, 1987.
Original item ID: DK B4 0006.
Original item ID: DK B4 0007.
Original item ID: DK B4 0008.
Original item ID: DK B6 0016.
Original item ID: DK B6 0033.
Original item ID: DK B6 0034.
Original item ID: DK B5 0038.
Original item ID: DK B5 0039. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0033.
Original item ID: DK B4 0032.
Original item ID: DK B3 0037.
Original item ID: DK B3 0038. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0029.
Original item ID: DK B5 0048.
Original item ID: DK B5 0049.
Original item ID: DK B5 0052.
Original item ID: DK B5 0053. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0003.
Original item ID: DK B6 0004.
Original item ID: DK B5 0057.
Original item ID: DK B5 0056.
Original item ID: DK B6 0037.
Original item ID: DK B6 0038.
Original item ID: DK B5 0058.
Original item ID: DK B5 0059.
Original item ID: DK B5 0001.
Original item ID: DK B5 0002. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0003.
Original item ID: DK B5 0004. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0005. Part 1 of 2 is missing.
Original item ID: DK B5 0007.
Original item ID: DK B5 0008.
Original item ID: DK B3 0041.
Original item ID: DK B3 0042.
Original item ID: DK B4 0019.
Original item ID: DK B4 0020.
Original item ID: DK B5 0006. The engineer's notes give the date as August 1991.
Original item ID: DK B4 0001.
Original item ID: DK B4 0002. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0016.
Original item ID: DK B5 0017.
Original item ID: DK B5 0015.
Original item ID: DK B5 0018.
Original item ID: DK B5 0019. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0035.
Original item ID: DK B6 0036.
Original item ID: DK B5 0040.
The notes regarding SR275-277 are unclear as to their relationship. Original item ID: DK B5 0020.
Original item ID: DK B5 0021.
Original item ID: DK B5 0022.
Original item ID: DK B3 0036.
Original item ID: DK B3 0035. Side B may be a rehearsal.
Original item ID: DK B5 0025.
Original item ID: DK B5 0026. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0025.
Original item ID: DK B3 0026.
Original item ID: DK B6 0039.
Original item ID: DK B6 0040.
Original item ID: DK B5 0028
Original item ID: DK B5 0029. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0025.
Original item ID: DK B6 0026.
Original item ID: DK B6 0024.
Original item ID: DK B6 0023.
Original item ID: DK B6 0019.
Original item ID: DK B6 0020. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0012.
Original item ID: DK B6 0013.
Original item ID: DK B3 0055.
Original item ID: DK B6 0005.
Original item ID: DK B5 0012.
Original item ID: DK B5 0011. Side B is blank. The engineer's notes give the date as December 11, 1981.
Original item ID: DK B6 0017.
Original item ID: DK B6 0018. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0044.
Original item ID: DK B6 0043.
Original item ID: DK B4 0031. Performers include Dave Utter.
Original item ID: DK B6 0049.
Original item ID: DK B3 0019.
Original item ID: DK B3 0020.
Original item ID: DK B3 0021.
Original item ID: DK B4 0029.
Original item ID: DK B4 0030. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0050.
Original item ID: DK B6 0051. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0052.
Original item ID: DK B6 0053. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0039.
Original item ID: DK B3 0040.
Original item ID: DK B6 0041. Side B is described as "broken."
Original item ID: DK B6 0042. Side B is described as "broken."
Original item ID: DK B6 0010.
Original item ID: DK B6 0011.
Original item ID: DK B5 0009.
Original item ID: DK B5 0010. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0023.
Original item ID: DK B4 0024. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0052.
Original item ID: DK B3 0053. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0012.
Original item ID: DK B4 0013. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0024.
Original item ID: DK B6 0045. Duet with Lena Spencer at the end of Side B.
Original item ID: DK B6 0046.
Original item ID: DK B6 0031.
Original item ID: DK B6 0032.
Original item ID: DK B6 0047.
Original item ID: DK B6 0048.
Original item ID: DK B5 0051.
Original item ID: DK B5 0050.
Original item ID: DK B6 0014.
Original item ID: DK B6 0015. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0055.
Original item ID: DK B6 0056.
Original item ID: DK B6 0057.
Original item ID: DK B3 0001. SR034-SR036 may be three parts in a series.
Original item ID: DK B3 0002. SR034-SR036 may be three parts in a series.
Original item ID: DK B3 0003. SR034-SR036 may be three parts in a series.
Original item ID: DK B6 0002.
Original item ID: DK B6 0001. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B6 0021. Guest set by Alien Folk Life after intermission.
Original item ID: DK B6 0022.
Original item ID: DK B5 0047.
Original item ID: DK B5 0046.
Original item ID: DK B4 0021.
Original item ID: DK B4 0022. Side A is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0016.
Original item ID: DK B4 0017. Side A has the same content as Side A of SR215. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0018. Side B is blank. Documentation indicates this recording may be either Vassar Clements or Bob Franke.
Original item ID: DK B6 0027.
Original item ID: DK B6 0028.
Original item ID: DK B4 0009.
Original item ID: DK B4 0010.
Original item ID: DK B5 0031.
Original item ID: DK B5 0032. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0022.
Original item ID: DK B3 0023. Half of tape comprised of unrelated record and radio dubs.
Original item ID: DK B4 0042.
Original item ID: DK B3 0030.
Original item ID: DK B3 0031.
Original item ID: DK B1 0009. Side A is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0004.
Original item ID: DK B4 0003. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0005.
Original item ID: DK B1 0001.
Original item ID: DK B1 0002.
Original item ID: DK B1 0003. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B1 0004.
Original item ID: DK B1 0005.
Original item ID: DK B1 0006.
Original item ID: DK B1 0007.
Original item ID: DK B1 0008.
Original item ID: DK B5 0044.
Original item ID: DK B2 0001. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B2 0002. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0013.
Original item ID: DK B4 0047.
Original item ID: DK B5 0045.
Original item ID: DK B5 0055.
Original item ID: DK B5 0054.
Original item ID: DK B5 0027. Part 1 of 2 is missing. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0027.
Original item ID: DK B4 0028. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0014.
Original item ID: DK B4 0015. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0034.
Original item ID: DK B4 0036.
Original item ID: DK B4 0035.
Original item ID: DK B4 0046.
Original item ID: DK B4 0045.
Original item ID: DK B5 0036.
Original item ID: DK B5 0035.
Original item ID: DK B5 0037.
Original item ID: DK B3 0051.
Original item ID: DK B4 0037.
Original item ID: DK B4 0038.
Original item ID: DK B4 0025.
Original item ID: DK B4 0026.
Original item ID: DK B4 0040.
Original item ID: DK B4 0039. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B4 0049.
Original item ID: DK B4 0050.
Original item ID: DK B4 0051.
Original item ID: DK B4 0052.
Original item ID: DK B4 0053.
Original item ID: DK B4 0054.
Original item ID: DK B4 0055.
Original item ID: DK B4 0056.
Original item ID: DK B4 0057.
Original item ID: DK B4 0058.
Original item ID: DK B4 0041.
Original item ID: DK B4 0011.
Original item ID: DK B3 0018. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B5 0030.
Original item ID: DK B3 0017.
Original item ID: DK B3 0028. Named as Walt Michaels in the documentation.
Original item ID: DK B3 0029. See note for SR172.
Original item ID: DK B3 0011.
Original item ID: DK B3 0010.
Original item ID: DK B3 0014.
Original item ID: DK B3 0049. Kim also goes by the name Kimberly.
Original item ID: DK B3 0027
Original item ID: DK B3 0050. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0034.
Original item ID: DK B6 0008.
Original item ID: DK B3 0054.
Original item ID: DK B3 0047.
Original item ID: DK B3 0048. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0009.
Original item ID: DK B3 0013.
Original item ID: DK B3 0033.
Original item ID: DK B5 0023. Michael Mark on bass, John Cobert on piano.
Original item ID: DK B5 0024.
Original item ID: DK B3 0006.
Original item ID: DK B3 0007.
Original item ID: DK B3 0008.
Original item ID: DK B6 0006.
Original item ID: DK B6 0007. Side A is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0015.
Original item ID: DK B3 0016. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0032.
Original item ID: DK B4 0043.
Original item ID: DK B4 0044. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0005.
Original item ID: DK B3 0004. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0012.
Original item ID: DK B6 0009.
Original item ID: DK B6 0054. Side A has only one song. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B3 0045. The tape comes from Dave Utter. SR188 and SR189 are probably parts 1 and 2 of the same concert)
Original item ID: DK B3 0046. Side B is blank. See note for SR188.
Original item ID: DK B1 0011. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B1 0012.
Original item ID: DK B1 0013.
Original item ID: DK B1 0014.
Original item ID: DK B1 0015.
Original item ID: DK B1 0016.
Original item ID: DK B1 0017. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B1 0018.
Original item ID: DK B1 0020.
Original item ID: DK B1 0019.
Original item ID: DK B2 0006.
Original item ID: DK B2 0007.
Original item ID: DK B2 0008.
Original item ID: DK B2 0009.
Original item ID: DK B2 0010.
Original item ID: DK B2 0011.
Original item ID: DK B2 0012.
Original item ID: DK B2 0013.
Original item ID: DK B2 0014.
Original item ID: DK B2 0015.
Original item ID: DK B2 0016.
Original item ID: DK B2 0017.
Original item ID: DK B2 0019.
Original item ID: DK B2 0018. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: DK B2 0005.
Original item ID: DK B2 0003. Side B is blank. Both SR127 and SR128 are designated part 2 of 2.
Original item ID: DK B2 0004. Side B is blank. See note for SR127.
Includes Robert Durand's "Caffè Lena Show," and Bob Bielecki unedited tapes.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0008. Annie Muir also goes by the name Ann Mayo Muir.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0009.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0001.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0002.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0012. Lena Spencer also sings.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0011.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0015.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0014.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0007.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0013.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0018.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0017.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0021. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0010. Side B may be blank.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0023.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0024.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0006.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0003. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0004.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0005. Coster's first name is not given in the documentation.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0019.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0022.
Original item ID: BB ZBS B10 0025.
Copyright 1976 by Mark Cohen.
Copyright 1993.
Includes a letter, flyer, and envelope.
Includes a letter, a flyer, and press clippings.
Irish traditional music. Includes a small poster.
Original item ID: JD B9 0002. Peter, Paul and Muffy is a folk-comedy trio.
Original item ID: JD B9 0010.
Original item ID: JD B9 0011.
Original item ID: JD B9 0003. Duplicate recording.
Last part of the show on November 25 is at end of the November 24 tape. Original item ID: JD B9 0008.
Original item ID: JD B9 0009. While other artists are noted, the recording does not include any artists besides Utah.
Original item ID: JD B9 0012.
Original item ID: JD B9 0013. "Reagan Night" - artists perform songs revolving around former president Ronald Reagan.
Original item ID: JD B9 0014.
Original item ID: JD B9 0015. Copy of DK B3 0022, DK B3 0023.
Original item ID: JD B9 0016. Copy of DK B3 0022, DK B3 0023.
Original item ID: JD B9 0018.
Original item ID: JD B9 0017.
Original item ID: JD B9 0020.
Original item ID: JD B9 0019.
Original item ID: JD B9 0021.
Original item ID: B7 0081. Part of the Caffè Lena History Project collection.
9 CDs total, donated by John Kribs. From the Caffè Lena History Project collection. Recordings include performances by John Kribs, The Raquette River Rounders, solo show with Arlin Greene on bass, with son Orion on guitar and Doug Moody on fiddle, and Skip Penk. The Southern Adirondacks Musicians Fund was founded in 2001.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509. Music only; remastered.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509.
See notes for SR509.
Original item ID: JD B9 0006.
Original item ID: JD B9 0007. Side B is blank.
Original item ID: JD B9 0004.
Original item ID: JD B9 0005.
Original item ID: B7 0082. Part of the Caffè Lena History Project collection.
One track only: Kribs tells a story about Lena Spencer, in tribute to her.
Donated by Kathy Conway. From the Caffè Lena History Project collection.
Benefit and celebration held at Skidmore College Dance Theater, Saratoga Springs, NY. 13 tracks.
Benefit and celebration held at Skidmore College Dance Theater, Saratoga Springs, NY. 15 tracks.
Selections from four performances at Caffè Lena.
Selections from four performances at Caffè Lena.
Two black and white positives of advertisement for the campaign.
Play staged at Caffè Lena Theatre; color photos both of the production and off-stage activities.
Interior and exterior of the building. Color images, captioned.
See note for the first set of building images.
Color photos; most are of performers on the Caffè Lena stage.
Several duplicate copies; all photos are in color.
Most photos are black and white; a few are in color.
Color photo of Caffè Lena and the surrounding neighborhood, photographed from the air.
Color photos, showing both interior and exterior views.
Lena photographed in the kitchen, plus other informal photos, and also in a stage play.
Note card from Ann Friedman to Jocelyn Arem, plus photos and printed copies of photos of Caffè Lena, including Lena Spencer. Also includes a photocopied humorous drawing of Lena cleaning up the stage after a musical performance. Images are in black and white and in color.
Three photos of Jackie Alper, two in color, and one of these with an unidentified woman.
The majority of photos measure 8 in. x 10 in.
Black and white photos; some have multiple copies.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
See note for folder 23/1.
Black and white prints (each image measures 2 3/4 in. x 1 3/4 in.) of digitized images, usually with 10 images per sheet. Images are watermarked with Alper's name. The list of individuals, groups, and venues given below is not exhaustive.
Bob Dylan, Suze Rotolo, Lena Spencer, George Alper, Jackie Alper, Guy McKenzie
Jackie Washington, Sue Abel, Jackie Alper, George Alper, Sylvia Mars, Tom Paley, Lena Spencer, Jaye Alper, Lena Spencer, Pete Stampfel, Jeri Alper
Molly Scott, Roy Berkley, Dave Van Ronk, Bill Spencer, Lena Spencer, Barry Kornfeld
Ramblin' Jack Elliot, Hedy West, Peter La Farge, Mira Gilbert, Rev. Gary Davis, Lena Spencer, Molly Scott, Mark Spoelstra, John Herald
Jackie Washington, Hedy West, Dave Van Ronk, Caffè Lena Theater, George Alper, Jackie Alper.
Caffè Lena Theater, Molly Scott, Skidmore Theater, Gil Turner, Noel [Paul] Stookey [Paul Stookey], New Voices Group, Hedy West, Henry Hood, Music Barn, The Weavers
Tom Paxton, Greenbriar Boys
Gerde's Folk City, John Lee Hooker, Mike Settle, George Alper, Pete Seeger
John Herald, Ralph Rinzler, Bernice Johnson Reagon, Rutha Harris, Charles Neblett, Freedom Singers, George Alper, Joe Alper
Bernice Johnson Reagon, Charles Neblett, Rutha Harris, Cordell Reagon, Freedom Singers, George Alper, Joe Alper
Bernice Johnson Reagon, Cordell Reagon, Lena Spencer, Eric Nussbaum, Margaret Cunningham, George Alper
Lena Spencer, Jim Kweskin, George Alper, Jeri Alper, Guy McKenzie, Bob Beers, Evelyn Beers, Martha Beers, Jaye Alper, Joe Alper, Hedy West, Ken and Joanie Jenkins, Jane Tillema
John Hammond, Jr., Larry Older, George Alper, Angus Godwin
Angus Godwin, Ed McCurdy, Len Chandler, Clarence (Tom) Ashley, George Alper, Paul Clayton, Rev. Gary Davis, Caroline Paton, Sandy Paton
Carline Paton, Sandy Paton, Big Joe Williams, John (Short Stuff) Macon, Jackie Alper, Janet Scott, Sterling Clink, George Alper, Jaye Alper
Gil Robbins, Caffè Lena Theater, Jackie Alper, Bernice Johnson Reagon
Bridie O'Donnell, Jacqui McDonald [Jacqui and Bridie], Charlotte Daniels, Pat Webb, Pete Williams, David Marash, Megan Marash, Caffè Lena Theater, George Alper, Bill Hjerpe, Bernice Johnson Reagon, Toshi Reagon
Caffè Lena Theater, street scenes, animals, studio portraits.
Highway scenes, portraits, Caffè Lena Theater, Lena Spencer, Bob Beers, Evelyn Beers, Cordell Reagon
Mark Spoelstra, Ritchie Havens, Gerde's Folk City, Lena Spencer, Joe Alper, George Dawson
Pete Seeger, Tom Paxton, Movement Singers, SNCC, Ali Khan [probably Ali Akbar Khan], Buffy Sainte-Marie, Len Chandler, college [campus images], Greenbriar Boys, George Dawson, Charles O'Hagerty
3 black and white images; Joe Alper, photographer. The images may have been copied from contact sheets.
14 photos, 3 1/2 in. x 3 1/2 in.; all but three are in color. Photo IDs on most images, although some are followed by a question mark: Michael Cooney (?), Molly Scott (?), John Herald, Green Mountain Boys [Greenbriar Boys?], Frank Wakefield, Tom Paxton (?), Pat Webb.
A group of photos in various dimensions, both black and white and color, taken by other photographers and gathered together by Joe Deuel. Includes photographic images of Lena Spencer and various performers, as well as exhibit visitors. Most of the photos are of lower quality, with many printed on bond paper. Accompanying the images are a few manuscript items, including a trading card for Christine Lavin, and a miniaturized version of the play "Outward Bound," produced at Caffè Lena Dinner Theater.
Photos are 4 in x 6 in. The majority are in color, and show performers in concert.
See note for 26/9.
See note for 26/9.
13 black-and-white and 5 color photos affixed to foam core, probably for an exhibit circa 2006. Images range in size from approximately 3 in. x 4 1/2 in. to 6 3/4 in. x 10 in. Subjects include performers in concert at Caffè Lena and elsewhere, as well as portraits.
Two color photos, plus an exhibit sign when the photos were on display.
One photo of Lena Spencer in the kitchen; two photos of performers playing at Caffè Lena.
Images of performers playing or posing, people in Caffè Lena, and photos at various locations.
See note for 27/1.
See note for 27/1.
6 items; different sizes, with most in black and white. Various art works paying tribute to Caffè Lena and Lena Spencer and, in one case, advertising an event.
Photographed by Joe Alper.
Photographed by Craig Sweet.
Photographed by Joe Alper.
1 sheet of plain paper with 3 in. x 3 1/4 in. prints of black and white images. Sheet measures 11 in. x 14 in.
Four sheets of plain paper with black and white prints of contact sheets. Sheets measure 10 in. x 12 in.
One sheet of color photos, each image measuring 4 1/2 in. x 5 in.
All items are 20 in. x 14 in. or smaller. Includes publicity posters for the bands Bitchin' Babes (signed), Wicky Sears, and Three Guitars and a Mandolin (benefit concert for Ed Harris), small publicity posters for Caffè Lena, and a hand-drawn mock-up for renovation work on Caffè Lena.
One folder with two posters, each measure approximately 24 in. x 24 in.; one is a blow-up image of Bob Dylan, taken by Joe Alper, and the other is a calendar of events, including a scheduled book lunch for the book Caffè Lena: Inside America's Legendary Folk Music Coffeehouse, by Jocelyn Arem, featuring photos by Joe Alper.
Digital items received from the donor are not yet processed. The item ID information in the finding aid refers to the physical items, as the digital item IDs are different from the analog item IDs.
MV01-11, MV14, and MV16 were discovered to be audio-only items after they were numbered. They have been renumbered SR518-530. The previously-used MV numbers have not been reassigned.
May be a documentary about a dam project and the environmental impact that would result from its creation.
Original ID number LENAA015. John is introduced as Papa John Phillips. The recording cuts away abruptly at about 01:33:00 to commercials and a segment of the movie "Back to the Future."
Part of an interview with Lena Spencer. Recording begins with clips of a male singer onstage at Caffè Lena.
Broadcast on Channel 13, 11:05 p.m.
Segment provided by Channel 10, Ticonderoga, NY TV.
InSight (program), copyright 2005 WMHT Educational Telecommunications, Albany NY. A look at Bob Dylan's impact on the local Saratoga Springs community and his relationship with photographer Elliott Landy. Marianne Potter interviews Landy. Jocelyn Arem speaks briefly.
Various performer doing cover versions of Bob Dylan songs. MV19 and MV20 in this collection may have the same content.
Phillips sings and talks between songs.
News stories with no direct relationship to the collection.
Two t-shirts date from circa 1990: a small red t-shirt and an x-large white t-shirt, both with an image in black of Lena Spencer and her Siamese cat, Sasha. These are accompanied by a letter from Dirk Westervelt, explaining the history of the t-shirts (as a fundraiser to keep Caffè Lena in business after Lena's death). The third t-shirt is large, in black with a colorful design on the back depicting the Caffè Lena building front and the motto "good folk since 1960." The front of the t-shirt has a smaller design, in white with black letters: "Lunch at the Ritz Studios / Beekman Street Galleries."
Collection of field recordings, studio recordings, and dubs and production masters of performances by blues guitarist Mississippi John Hurt, from the time of Hurt's initial meeting with Tom Hoskins, at Hurt's home in Avalon, Mississippi in March 1963 through various sessions and events from 1963-1965. The collection resulted from Tom Hoskins' relationship with Mississippi John Hurt over the next few years and includes Hoskins' interviews and photographs of John Hurt and his home; includes original letters from John Hurt and Jessie Hurt, with Hoskins' collection of various published articles and ephemera about Mississippi John Hurt, dated 1963-1999. John Hurt and his family moved to Washington, D.C. and he became a popular performer in the blues revival, coffeehouse, and folk music circuits. The collection includes an interview and performances by John Hurt recorded in the Coolidge Auditorium at the Library of Congress, in Washington, D.C. over several days in July, 1963. John Hurt and his family returned to Mississippi in 1966 and Hurt died soon after, on November 2, 1966. A selection from the March 1963 field recordings was issued in 2011 as the album Discovery: The Rebirth of John Hurt, March 3, 1963. Spring Fed Records.
The letter to Hoskins is dated October 1, 1992; other documents date from 1976-1980.
Authorization for the Library of Congress and/or its agents to release to Music Research, Inc., its officers or agents, any and all recordings made by Mississippi John Hurt (her late husband).
12 business cards and surrogates for businesses (e.g., McCabe's Guitar Shop), performers (e.g., The Dry City Scat Band), and folklore resources (e.g., Philadelphia Folk Workshop Folklore Center), and others. Some items have contact information for multiple individuals.
Two copies and a partial copy of the concert program for Hurt's performance at the 5th annual Philadelphia Folk Festival.
Handwritten and photocopied lists of recordings, including photocopied album covers and notes and published reviews, some of works by Hurt, others listed as part of a general blues discography; accompanied by a manila envelope sent from Joe Lee to Bill Tydings of El Frog (with the handwritten note "Hurt discography" on the front). Also includes the booklet from the two-CD set "Mississippi John Hurt: memorial anthology."
A two-page list of printed material relating to Hurt, and a one page list of his recordings.
Pages from a booklet accompanying vinyl sound recording anthology of the recordings of Charley Patton, a booklet that accompanied the vinyl sound recording "The Mississippi Blues," released as part of the Origin Jazz Library (1963), and a one-page photocopy of the music and lyrics for "Louis Collins."
Includes lists of articles about Hurt that could be used for subsequent publicity without charge. Also includes a publicity collage for Skip James. The photo of James has been relocated to Series III.
Includes articles and other publications about Hurt, the lawsuit against Hoskins by Hurt's family and other subjects.
Original folder heading: Master tape logs original and copies Sept. '96. Logs and song lists for some of the recordings in the collection.
Handwritten documents.
Photocopies of handwritten documents plus typed documents.
Handwritten logs and notes regarding sound recordings.
Typed copy.
Typed copy.
Handwritten contact list.
Photocopy of a Billboard article and the eulogy.
Subjects include Hurt and other blues musicians. Contents include an interview transcript (the subject is unidentified, but it is not Hurt).
Includes liner notes, order forms for recordings, and a copy of the promotional brochure for the 2nd Philadelphia Folk Festival.
One stock certificate, still attached, written out to Mahlon Kline Lea (1977), a receipt for funds received from Hoskins toward the reinstatement of Music Research, Inc.'s corporate charter, stubs for stock certificates sold to Dick Spottswood, Tom Hoskins, Eugene C. Denson, and Mahlon Kline Lea (1963-1966), and legal documents related to Music Research, Inc. (1965-1977, undated).
Titles handwritten on 81 3 x 5 in. index cards, some with notes regarding the LP on which the song is found.
Handwritten names, addresses, and phone numbers.
Handwritten names, addresses, and phone numbers.
Various music-related publications reflecting Hoskins' research interests, including Hurt as well as other blues musicians.
In Russian and English. Two copies.
Described as "the official news magazine of the British blues connection."
Tape containers with handwritten notes on them from SR016, SR022, SR033, SR036-SR042, and SR051.
Sound recordings were numbered to match the original reel number. The documentation on tape containers indicates that tape 5 is on the same recording as tape 4, and tape 8 is on the same recording as tape 9. Items given the ID numbers SR017 and SR083-SR086 were discovered during the digitization process to be blank--SR017 may never have been used, and SR083-SR086 were bulk-erased. The content may be on other recordings in the collection. Song titles reflect the common use per recording; when Hurt announces a song with a variant of the commonly-used title it is noted. Further variations can be found on accompanying documentation.
Original ID #1. On tape container: Peter K. Session 2, reel 1.
First take.
False start.
Second take.
Cut off at the end.
Original ID #2. Session 2, reel 2. On the tape container: (Pete K) [sic].
Cut off at the end.
Original ID #3. Session 2, reel 3. On the tape container: (Pete K) [sic]. The date March 23, 1963 appears on the tape container with a question mark after it.
Original ID numbers 4, 5. Session 2, reel 4. On the tape container: (Pete K) [sic].
Original ID #6. Recorded live at an unidentified club. On the tape container: Pete K.
Original ID #7.
Three takes.
False start.
Two takes.
Two takes.
Incomplete performance.
Original ID numbers 8, 9. Session 2, reel 5. On the tape container: (Pete K) [sic].
Original ID #10. Session 2, reel 6. On the tape container: Pete K [Kuykendall].
Instrumental for the most part, with a few words sung.
Instrumental.
Original ID #11. On the tape container: (Master.....not really master) Reel I / Reel 7.
Two takes.
Original ID #12. "9."
Fragment of a song.
Hurt uses a slide with his guitar on this song.
Original ID #13. MJH 51 dub master L 1609-1. L 1609 may be the matrix number for the commercial sound recording (LP) by Hurt, called "Worried blues." The recording seems to have been made in front of a live audience.
Spoken introduction and song.
Spoken introduction and song.
Original ID #14. MJH 52 dub master L 1610-1. See note for SR013.
Spoken introduction and song.
Discovery reel #1. Voices can be heard in the background, and in conversation with Hurt, during and between songs. Recorded in Avalon, Mississippi by Tom Hoskins. A rooster can be heard in the background on the untitled tune and during the subsequent tuning and conversation. Gertrude Conley (Hurt's first wife) and Jenny McCrain both sing without accompaniment. Jessie Hurt was John Hurt's second wife.
Instrumental version.
Others listening join the conversation at times.
Includes two false starts and a complete version.
Cut off at the end; distortion develops about the same time.
Duet with Jessie.
Hurt announces the song as Mermaid blues.
Instrumental fragment of the song.
Fragment of the song.
Fragment of the song.
Instrumental fragment of the song.
Sung by Gertrude Conley (Hurt's first wife).
Sung by Jenny McCrain (Gertrude Conley's sister).
Original ID #16. John Hurt biography #1. On the tape container: "This is the first (post discovery) John Hurt Recording" (G.R.). "same as 15." Recorded in Avalon, Mississippi by Tom Hoskins on March 3, 1963. Conversations and background noise can be heard throughout the recording. While the documentation notes "re-recorded: Adelphi Studios" on July 7, 1965, this is the recording of March 3, 1963. SR015b is a slightly different version of this recording, with the addition of "Frankie and Johnnie" and the exclusion of "Through the years I keep on toiling" and "Precious Lord take my hand."
The tape cuts off during the performance.
Duet with Jessie.
Hurt announces the song as Mermaid blues.
Instrumental fragment of the song.
Fragment of the song.
Fragment of the song.
Instrumental fragment of the song.
Original ID #18. Voice of America program. The name "Peter Kendall" appears on the tape box, but may be a mistake, and could be Peter Kuykendall.
The introduction is spoken over the song.
Spoken introduction and song.
Spoken introduction and song.
Peter Kendall signs off, speaking over last part of the song.
Original ID #19. Studio One: Mississippi John Hurt. Intended for broadcast on Voice of America. The announcer asks questions in English, and translates into French for the intended audience. The interview takes place between the songs, and also serves to introduce songs.
Spoken in French by an unidentified announcer
The song cuts off at very end, following a brief fade-out.
Original ID #20. Mississippi John Hurt recorded at The Unicorn Coffee House, 825 Boylston St, Boston, Massachusetts. Reel # 1. John introduces each song. Because the tape ends in mono, the engineer created two digital files (identified as A and B files). This is an edited copy of the original (applause between songs has been cut; although other material may have been edited out).
Original ID #21. John Hurt and Skip James, Nov. 1, 1964. Recorded at The Unicorn Coffee House, 825 Boylston Street, Boston, Massachusetts. Reel # 2.
Original ID #22. #3. Studio session, Cambridge, MA. The voices of two unidentified men can be heard in the background, in conversation with John.
Original ID #23. On tape container: MJH by? at? Denson Boston Dub? Recorded in front of a live audience. "Denson" may be Ed Denson who, along with John Fahey, rediscovered Bukka White, another blues singer.
Hurt stops playing the song suddenly, then is prompted to go on to play "Funky butt."
Original ID #24. On tape container: Reel 27 Silitch Fisher [Peter Silitch and Sandy Fisher]. "Dick" (mentioned on the recording) is Dick Spottswood. John starts by playing a 12-string guitar, then switches to a 6-string guitar. Silitch and Fisher recorded Hurt in sessions dated March 24, 26, 29 and April 2, 1963, in Washington, D.C.
Instrumental fragment.
Two false starts.
Original ID #25. "SESS 2" "FILL II" / 28.
Cuts off before song's conclusion.
Cut off at the beginning.
Conversation cuts out while in progress.
Cut off at the beginning.
Cuts off before song's conclusion, when the tape runs out.
Original ID #26. MJH 29 (written on reel). Dick Spottswood and Sandy Fisher are among the people who can be heard speaking on the recording.
First take completed; second take cut off before the conclusion.
Original ID #27. MJH 30 (written on reel). One man can be heard in the background, in conversation with John. More people arrive partway into the recording.
Cut off before the conclusion.
The box has "31" written on it. Original ID #28. This recording seems to be from the same session as SR26 and/or SR27. Voices can be heard in the background (including Sandy Fisher), sometimes in conversation with John. Continued on SR29, mid-song. See SR31 for a similar dub to this recording.
Continued from SR28, mid-song; continued on SR30. The box and reel have"32" written on each. Original ID #29.
The conversation is cut off before its conclusion.
Original ID #30. Continued from SR29. On the tape container: "33."
Original ID #31. John Hurt Session dubs (6) Sandy Fisher and Peter Silitch present. See SR28 for notes; SR28 and SR31 are dubbed from the same source.
First take. While the song is sometimes documented as "Spanish fandango," Hurt himself called it "Spanish fandang."
Second take.
Cut off before the conclusion.
First take.
Second take. Cut off before the conclusion.
Cut off at the beginning; cuts out again at 15:26.
Cut off before the conclusion.
Original ID #32. John Hurt Session dubs (5) / Silitch [Peter Silitch]. Possibly recorded at Sandy Fisher's house. Dick Spottswood was also present. John plays 12-string guitar.
First take.
Second take.
False start.
Cut off at the beginning, and starts at the wrong speed.
First take.
Second take.
Fragment of an instrumental version of the song.
Original ID #33. John Hurt and Dock Boggs workshop recorded by Folk Workshop, 1344 W. Jerome St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. From the beginning of the recording, a regular, high-pitched squeak or beep can be heard on the recording, possibly introduced by the recording device. Tape has drop out between 27:20-27:24. Mike Seeger may be heard speaking briefly on Side B.
Dock Boggs, singing and playing banjo.
Original ID #34. Recorded in front of a live audience. John announces the song as John Henry, spike driver.
Spoken introduction to the song.
Original ID #35. Recorded in front of a live audience. Talking Casey fades out at the end. John can be heard speaking with another man between songs.
One verse
Original ID #36. The year is unconfirmed. Recorded in front of a live audience. John can be heard speaking with another man between songs. The M.C. mentions the "Folklore Society" during the announcement of the intermission.
Hurt announces the song as Creole belle.
Original ID #37. Recorded in front of a live audience.
Original ID #38. John Hurt live at Cafe Yana, reel 1. Drop-outs on "Do Lord, remember me." Alan Wilson (later with the group Canned Heat) played harmonica on the last four songs. SR038 and SR040a were recorded at the same time, although SR040a is the louder of the two. It is possible that they were made on recording devices positioned in separate places on or near the stage.
Hurt announces the song as Lord, remember me.
Hurt announces the song as Since I've laid this burden down.
Hurt announces the song as Worrisome blues.
Hurt announces the song as Creole belle.
Hurt announces the song as Got the blues, can't be satisfied.
Hurt announces the song as Spike driver's moan (John Henry).
Original ID #39. John Hurt. John Hurt live at Cafe Yana, reel 2. Alan Wilson played harmonica on the first two songs. SR039 and SR040b were recorded at the same time, although SR040b is the louder of the two. It is possible that they were made on recording devices positioned in separate places on or near the stage.
Hurt announces the song as Trouble, I've had all my days.
Original ID #40. John Hurt live at Cafe Yana, reel 1, sets 1-3. See notes for SR038 and SR039. Side B (and possibly Side A) dubbed from other recordings (possibly SR038-SR039).
Hurt announces the song as Lord, remember me.
Hurt announces the song as Since I've laid this burden down.
Hurt announces the song as Worrisome blues.
Hurt announces the song as Creole belle.
Hurt announces the song as Got the blues, can't be satisfied.
Hurt announces the song as Spike driver's moan (John Henry).
Hurt announces the song as Trouble, I've had all my days.
The audio cuts out at 15:24.
Fragment.
Original ID #41. John Hurt live at Cafe Yana, reel 2, set 4. Saturday afternoon.
See note for SR31b.
Cut off at the beginning.
An unidentified man sings along.
Fragment.
Original ID #42. Party, Sunday morning. Possible recorded on one channel only. Shrill, repetitive sound throughout the recording may have been introduced by the recording device. Instances of distortion occur as well. Feedback, print-through, or recording on a different channel mars the recording from 25:09 to the end.
Instrumental; the beginning is cut off.
Hurt plays guitar but does not sing; those present pick up the singing later in the song.
Instrumental version; the beginning is cut off.
An unidentified woman from the audience comments during the song.
Original ID #43. Some sort of vibration can be heard on the recording, which occurred during the recording process.
Instrumental.
Hurt's spoken introduction to the song, followed by three false starts, then the complete song at 11:24.
Original ID #44. Written on the reel: M54. Another man's voice can be heard on the recording, speaking with Hurt. Hurt uses a slide with his guitar on the song Pera Lee.
Two false starts, then the complete song.
Hurt uses a slide with his guitar on the song Pera Lee.
Original ID #45. Written on the reel: M55. Another man's voice can be heard on the recording, speaking with Hurt. "Pete" is also present (this could be a number of people associated with Hurt).
False start.
Fragment.
False start.
False start.
Original ID #46. Written on the reel: M56. Recorded before a live audience. Hurt uses a slide with his guitar on the song Pera Lee.
Original ID #47. Written on the reel: M57. Recorded before a live audience.
Original ID #48. Written on the reel: M58. Recorded before a live audience. Mule Ridin' Blues (Hey, Bub Blues) begins at 10:24. Originally recorded by Big Bill Broonzy and released in 1956.
Hurt announces the song as Got the blues that can't be satisfied.
Original ID #49. Written on the reel: M59. Recorded before a live audience. Volume levels change with some frequency.
Hurt announces the song as Preaching tonight on the old camp ground.
Original ID #50. Feb 28th; Mostly NY. A female voice can be heard reciting numbers through the recording to 28:44, and then the recitation starts again at 37:47; it may have been recorded on a separate channel and thus playing back simultaneously. Dick Spottswood is present and speaks about 33:34 with the interviewer; someone named Ross is also present. A camera is also mentioned, so this may accompany a filmed segment for broadcast.
Fragment; cut off.
The interviewer introduces the song as I've got The blues and can’t be satisfied.
Three false starts and a version where the sound fades out precede the complete version.
Original ID #51. From the accompanying documentation: John Hurt at home c2. Teaching Avalon. Fang [Tom Hoskins], guitar. Significant echoing effect introduced during the recording process, sometimes becoming very loud.
False start.
First take.
Second take; one of the men sings along with Hurt.
Original ID #52. John Hurt Live / Demonstration tape. Several men talking, with Hurt playing. Multiple takes of the song Payday, with some false starts. At one point Hurt uses a slide with his guitar when playing. Another guitarist plays as well; he speaks more than once but is unidentified.
Original ID #53. Recorded before a live audience.
The song is cut off (incomplete).
Original ID #54. Recorded before a live audience.
Part of the tune is similar to "Blessed be the name."
Hurt announces the song as "Satisfied."
Hurt announces the song as "Satisfied" (a different song from the preceding song).
Hurt announces the song as "Corrina."
Volume fades in and out briefly when Hurt begins singing.
Original ID #55. Recorded live at The Ontario Place, in Adams Morgan, Washington, D.C.
Original ID #56. Recorded live at Recorded live at Ontario Place, in Adams Morgan, Washington, D.C.
Introduction and one verse.
Hurt announces the song as "Old Joe Turner."
Also known as "Spanish fandango."
Original ID #57. Dubs from various sets; uncertain if all are from the same venue. All recordings except for the first (Canned heat) were recorded on November 28, 1964, at Ontario Place, in Adams Morgan, Washington, D.C.
Possibly sung by Al Wilson, accompanied by guitar.
Spoken introduction to the song, followed by the song.
Hurt announces the title as Rocks [sic] of ages.
Original ID #58. Recorded before a live audience.
Hurt announces the song as Can't come in.
Hurt announces the song as Worrisome blues.
Original ID #59. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Dick Spottswood, Joseph (Joe) Hickerson, Robert Carneal, and John Howell. The latter two are recording engineers. Joe conducts the interview, which is interspersed between the songs. Continued on SR060.
First take.
Second take.
Original ID #60. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR059; continues on SR061. See notes for SR059.
Hurt sings only part of the song.
Original ID #61. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR060; continued on SR062. See notes for SR059.
Hurt calls this Spanish fandang, although it is sometimes referred to on commercial releases as Spanish fandango.
Hurt uses a slide with his guitar on this song.
Song is cut off at the end of the tape.
Original ID #62. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR061; continued on SR063. See notes for SR059.
The beginning of this recording overlaps the end of SR061.
Original ID #63. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR062; continued on SR064. See notes for SR059.
False start.
Fades out before the song is finished.
Original ID #64. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR063; continued on SR065. See notes for SR059.
The beginning of this recording overlaps the end of SR063.
Also known as Hey, baby, right away.
Sometimes referred to as Glory, Glory hallelujah.
Hurt announces the song as I hear you a'knockin' and you can't come in.
Original ID #65. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR064; continued on SR066. See notes for SR059. The first two songs were recorded on July 15; the balance were recorded on July 23.
Hurt calls the song Camp meeting tonight.
Original ID #66. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR065; continued on SR067. See notes for SR059.
Also known as Farther along.
Original ID #67. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR066; continued on SR068. See notes for SR059.
First take.
Second take.
Original ID #68. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR067; continued on SR069. See notes for SR059.
Original ID #69. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR068; continued on SR070. See notes for SR059.
Hurt sings this fragment without accompaniment.
This incorporates the so-called "Chicken song," in which Hurt spells out the word "chicken."
This is a more complete version of the song Hurt sang on SR067.
Original ID #70. Recorded at the Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. Continued from SR069. See notes for SR059.
The sound fades out at the end of the recording while Hurt is still talking.
Original ID #71.
Recorded before a live audience.
See note for SR31b.
Song is cut off towards the end.
May have been recorded with a small group of people present. Continues on SR072.
Another man playing guitar seems to have joined Hurt for this song. The song seems to segue into another blues song (Grouchy blues?), including the line "cook cornbread for your husband, biscuits for your man."
Song cuts off towards the end.
Original ID #72. Recorded before a live audience. Continued from SR071b.
Original ID #73. Dub of #74 plus the other 5" reel of the rest of the interview. Tom Hoskins conducted the interview; Nick Perls was the recordist.
Original ID #74. Mississippi John Hurt: biography and stories #3. Tom Hoskins conducted the interview; Nick Perls was the recordist. Recorded at Ontario Place, Washington, D.C.
Original ID #75. Songs and stories at a party. Tom Hoskins is one of the people present (he is heard being called by name more than once). Significant amount of party-related noise. Several people present have guitars.
Unidentified man sings and plays guitar. Someone is playing slide guitar.
Unidentified man sings and plays slide guitar.
Performed by Hurt.
The guitar may be played by Hurt, but if he is singing it is not audible.
Sung by several people present.
May be Hurt singing towards the end of the recording; distortion at the very end of the recording.
From this song to the end of the recording, Hurt plays guitar and sings the songs.
Original ID #76. Frank Mizell (blues guitarist). Dick Spottswood was also present. This may have been recorded by Gene Rosenthal at Adelphi Studios circa 1965. Following That's all right, the balance of recording is a dub of commercial sound recordings; possibly 78 rpm discs.
Unidentified female vocalist at times. Recorded in a party-like environment; much background noise. Significant distortion at times.
Several people sing (both male and female), and accompany Hurt's guitar with percussion.
Sung and played by Hurt; accompanied at times by a female vocalist; performance includes hand-clapping. Recording is marred by distortion.
Sung and played by Hurt; accompanied at times by a female vocalist; performance includes hand-clapping.
Sung and played by Hurt; accompanied at times by a female vocalist; performance includes hand-clapping.
Original ID #77.
Frank Mizell (blues guitarist). Songs and storytelling.
Unidentified performers.
Male singer with guitar.
Male singer and female singer, with guitar.
Same performers as the previous song.
Solo guitar.
Probably the same guitarist as the previous tune.
Solo male singer/guitarist.
Solo male guitarist.
Solo male singer/guitarist.
Original ID #78. Hurt is interviewed by Pete Seeger for Sing out magazine. Most of the recording is the interview, but also includes Hurt singing and playing.
Spoken introduction and song.
Hurt uses a slide on his guitar.
The first song is a dub of the 1928 Okeh recording of Hurt performing Avalon blues. SR088 is a copy of the same recording. Some selections are from March 3, 1963, while others are from performances at various venues.
See SR015a.
Others listening join the conversation at times.
Sung by an unidentified man and then by Hurt, who plays guitar throughout.
This is a different version from the previous one on the same recording.
Spoken introduction and song.
Partial dub of interview recording with Pete Seeger (SR082); spoken word section only.
Interview with Hurt.
Hurt credits Holly Ochs as co-writer of the song.
According to notes in the tape box, this is a compilation of Hurt recordings made for Maynard Solomon for the lawsuit with Vanguard. The recordings are from the "Music Rsesearch vaults" (i.e., Music Research, Inc.).
interview
Dub of commercial recordings, possibly opera; recorded in a language other than English. Side A may have print through; a second recording (unrelated to this collection) can be heard simultaneously during playback.
Dub of one or more commercial sound recordings (nothing by Hurt).
Dub of a ragtime music compilation LP, Side B only (Piedmont 13158-B).
Dub of one or more commercial sound recordings (nothing by Hurt).
Dub of one or more commercial sound recordings (nothing by Hurt).
Dub of a compilation LP of 12-string guitar music, Side A only. (Piedmont 13159-A)).
Dub of a commercial disc sound recording of Corrina, Corrina. See note for SR098.
Dub of one or more commercial sound recordings (nothing by Hurt).
Dub of the same recording as SR096.
Some of the photos were used as legal evidence in the court case brought by the Hurt family against Hoskins.
6 black-and-white photos taken in Avalon, measuring 4 1/2 in. x 3 1/4 in. Two have notes in red ballpoint ink along a border. Photos show the exterior of Hurt's home, a nearby store, and an unidentified man.
6 black-and-white photos of Hurt, taken in front of his home; measuring 4 1/2 in. x 3 1/4 in.
2 black-and-white photos taken in front of the post office in Avalon. One photo measures 5 in. x 4 in., and the other is slightly smaller (the bottom edge has been cut off). The complete photo shows Hurt holding a sunburst guitar; another man stands next to him (described on the other photo's verso as his "buddy"), and a third, unidentified man stands at left. The cropped photo shows only Hurt and his friend.
25 3 in. x 5 in. black-and-white photos taken in Avalon. Another, smaller photo was trimmed from a larger photo. While the date stamp on the border says April 1965, it is evident some of the photos were taken in March, as the unidentified man in those photos also appears in the so-called April 1965 photos. The photos show Hurt and his wife Jessie in front of their home, group of men at the gas station, livestock, and the unidentified man seen in the March 1963 photos.
12 4 in. x 5 in. black-and-white photos and 3 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white photos, taken in Avalon; Hoskins may appear in one photo with Hurt. Most of the photos were taken of Hurt near what appears to be a disused canal or waterway, sometimes with a guitar. Some photos show Hurt and the guitar (which may have belonged to Hoskins) on the steps of his home.
Black-and-white Polaroid photo, measuring 3 1/2 in. x 4 1/4 in. This may be Hurt's grandson: the hat looks like the one usually worn by Hurt. The child is wearing a Cub Scout uniform.
1 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white photo of Hurt in concert.
3 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white contact sheets of 35mm images (and some cut-out pieces of contact sheets). Photos taken at the Gaslight Cafe, in New York.
Photocopies of 2 black-and-white 8 in. x 10 in. photos and 2 black-and-white contact sheets of 35mm images. Taken at the 1964 Newport Folk Festival. Fred and Annie McDowell appear in the 8 in. x 10 in. photos. The contact sheet includes the same images, plus other scenes, including Hurt performing onstage.
8 black-and-white contact sheets of 35mm images, taken at a coffee house in Washington, D.C.
One 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white photo of Hurt, with a matching copy negative. Two 8 in x 10 in. black-and-white contact sheets, with a total of 18 frames showing Hurt playing or posing with a guitar. An envelope with Mantler's name is included in the folder. The 8 in. x 10 in. image may have been used for an album called "Legacy."
1 8 in. x 10 in. black and white photo of Elizabeth Cotten and Hurt posing (off-stage) at the Newport Folk Festival, 1964. Two 8 in. x 10 in. photos of hurt, onstage (undated), plus an envelope labeled with the return address of Stefan Grossman's Guitar Workshop, and sent to Hoskins. Also, a slip of paper that accompanies the photos, noted that an item (unidentified) was an exhibit in a legal case.
1 black-and-white 8 in. x 10 in. close-up photo of Hurt.
5 black-and-white 8 in. x 10 in. photos of Hurt on stage, during a concert with Pete Seeger at Lisner Auditorium, Washington, D.C. (December 12, 1964). 1 black-and-white 8 in. x 10 in. of Hurt at the blues workshop, Philadelphia Folk Festival (1964).
3 black-and-white photo proofs, one measuring approximately 7 1/4 in. x 7 3/4 in, and two approximately 7 1/4 in. x 9 1/2 in.
Three 8 1/2 in. x 14 in. photocopies of contact sheets showing Hurt at Newport (1963); the photographer is John Byrne Cooke (son of Alistair Cooke). One photocopy of an uncredited photo from Newport in 1964, with Hurt and Elizabeth Cotten.
3 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white contact sheets of 35mm images. Each sheet represents the work of a different photographer: Cogan (probably Michael Cogan), Karovitch (no other information), and Bobbi Lord.
6 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white contact sheets of 35mm images
5 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white photos of film, showing Hurt playing guitar (see MV01 for the moving images from which these frames were copied). Some images show him without a hat. Three images have edge code: two copies of the same image have 14722 and another image has 14719. A separate group of items are strips and pieces of paper, in various sizes, with still frames from the film. These function as proofs (handwritten notations on some of them).
4 8 in. x 10 in. black-and-white photos and 1 8 3/4 in. x 9 1/2 in. print of a negative. Related documentation includes contact information for Lucille Hurt and for Paul Ulrich, as well as photocopies of photos, a draft of an essay for a commercial release on King Bee Records, a photocopied magazine article about Hurt that mentions Hoskins, and a manila envelope with handwritten notes.
21 35mm Ektachrome color slides, showing Hurt in performance (close-ups). Accompanied by the original slide mount display, plus a slip of paper indicating these slides were submitted as an exhibit in a legal case.
Black-and-white photo of Skip James, measuring 4 1/2 in. x 2 3/4 in.; relocated from folder 1/10.
Video copied from a film original. "Jacobson" (from the slate) is probably Joel Jacobson.
Hurt walks into a living room in a house, sits down, and picks up a Guild F-30 Sunburst guitar from a case to play. His two grandchildren enter the room one at a time and sit down, followed by his wife Jessie, who also sits down. They listen attentively while he plays. There are close-ups of his hands while he plays, and his granddaughter mimics the action on the chair arm.
Close-up of Hurt's picking style, in slow-motion. Later, Jessie is no longer in the room, and Hurt's granddaughter gets up to dance the twist to Hurt's playing. The video shows Hurt tapping his foot along while playing. His grandson picks up Hurt's hat and hands it to him. Content ends at 8:52; the rest of the video is blank.
An edited version of episode 36 of Rainbow Quest (Pete Seeger's television show). "Not the end just the beginning" appears as the title. Also present: Hedy West and Paul Cadwell. Pete engages each in conversation, and they play in turn.
Performed by Paul Cadwell.
Performed by Hurt.
Performed by Hurt.
Hurt sings lead, and the others play, and join him on the chorus. West leads on the second verse, possibly with Seeger singing harmony.
Commercial for a car repair company; no content relevant to the collection.
The first two segments are in black and white; the third is in color.
This segment is held in copyright by Ohio University.
Content is partially copied to MV01. The full content of the film may reflect other content and recording dates.
Woody Guthrie songs, performed by Guthrie with guitar and harmonica. Twenty-six new songs were written by Guthrie on a one-month contract for the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) in May 1941, and were recorded during 1941 or later in Portland, Oregon. These are likely the originals or near copies of the 1941 studio recordings Guthrie made at the BPA Headquarters in Portland, Oregon. Some are first-generation discs, others are second-generation or other copies; songs include alternate takes and outtakes. Three of Guthrie's songs were included in the 1948 film "The Columbia."
One folder holding five original disc sleeves. Only the original paper sleeves with any notes written on them were retained. Unless otherwise described all notes are in pencil and are exact transcriptions.
Sleeve for SR01. "Guthrie" is underlined.
Sleeve for SR02. A few numbers and calculations, plus two names that are undeciphered.
Sleeve for SR03.
Sleeve for SR04. "Roll Columbia" is underlined in red ballpoint pen.
Sleeve for SR05.
Titles are as they appear on the discs. Published titles are taken from "Columbia River Collection" (Rounder CD 1036).
Published title: Grand Coulee Dam
Published title: Roll On Columbia
Published title: Talkin' Columbia
Published title: same
Published title: same. Side B is blank.
Published title: same
Published title: Roll Columbia, Roll
Published title: Talking Columbia
Published title: Columbia's Waters
Published title: same
Published title: Song of the Grand Coulee Dam
Published title: same
Published title: Grand Coulee Dam. This song is an outtake from the recording session(s).
Published title: Roll Columbia, Roll
Published title: Roll On, Columbia
The narrator is unidentified.
Published title: Grand Coulee Dam
Published title: The Biggest Thing Man Has Ever Done
Published title: same
Published title: same
Published title: Roll Columbia, Roll
The Sol Biderman Collection is comprised of Biderman's writings, research materials, and primary sources for his studies of folk literature including 326 Brazilian chapbooks published between 1958 and 2003, with related materials from other countries, including Mexico and Italy.
The collection includes material on performance, narratives, and Brazilian chapbook illustrating traditions. Three sound recordings, some of which were taped in Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Norte, and Ceara in 1967-1968, capture the recitation of the cordel poems "Beira Mar" and "Galope a Beira Mar." Artifacts and xilogravuras in the collection include a selection of wooden boxes by Guilherme de Faria (a.k.a. Alma Welt); a series of fourteen woodblocks depicting the crucifixion of Christ by João Antonio de Barros; woodblock prints from the Via Sacra series by José Costa Leite; and selected photographs from Inocêncio da Costa Niquel's (Mestre Noza) woodblock Via Sacra series, plus other woodblock prints and posters advertising Biderman's plays. Chapbook authors include: João Martins de Athayde, Abraão Batista, J. (José) Borges, Rodolfo Coelho Cavalcante, Guilherme de Faria, Raimundo Santa Helena, Franklin de C. Machado, José Pacheco, Apolônio Alves dos Santos, and Minelvino Francisco Silva, among others.
Biderman's writings, including a play, poems, and articles form part of the Manuscripts series in the collection. Included are a selection of Chicano corridos and poems written by members of the Teatro Campesino and students of the Universidad Autonomia de Mexico in 1970-1972. Student poems were collected during the time Sol Biderman taught Chicano and English Literature at San Jose State University.
The Maggie Holtzberg collection documents, through interviews and photographs, the occupational folklife and craft of hot metal typesetters, compositors, and printers. Holtzberg interviewed skilled craftsmen and women who experienced the disruptive technology and transition in the printing industry from mechanical typesetting, "hot metal," to computer-aided photocomposition or "cold type." She interviewed retired printers residing at the Union Printers Home in Colorado Springs, Colorado and craft printers at Heritage Printers in Charlotte, North Carolina, among others. Interviews were conducted between 1983-1988. The collection includes the production files for Holtzberg's book, The Lost World of the Craft Printer (University of Illinois Press, 1992); correspondence with folklorists Archie Green and Judith McCulloh, and notes from meetings with Holtzberg's dissertation advisors at the University of Pennsylvania -- Henry Glassie, Ray Birdwhistle, and with Ken Goldstein, whom she interviewed about his experience in the printing industry. The collection also includes two journals written while Maggie Holtzberg was a student from 1972-1973 at the Trailside Country School, based in Killington, Vermont. The Trailside Country School was a traveling high school run by Michael Cohen and Diana Cohen that taught cultural documentation. The notebooks include diary entries, song lyrics, music transcription, and ephemera from locations throughout the United States where the students traveled. Photographs include the 46 illustrations for Holtzberg's book, 31 slides, plus snapshots from Holtzberg's fieldwork with printers and a few from the Trailside Country School. One of the interviews with printers was conducted by folklorist Jan Rosenberg.
Interviews with craftsmen concerning their experiences in the printing industry, typically regarding the shift from "hot metal" mechanical typesetting to "cold-type" computer-aided photocomposition. Earlier interviews were conducted as part of Holtzberg's dissertation research, and those created after 1987 were conducted as part of her monograph The Lost World of the Craft Printer. Some interviews were not recorded. In those cases Holtzberg wrote notes and summaries. Some recorded interviews do not have full transcripts.
Notes from interviews conducted as part of dissertation, does not include notes for interviews conducted after 1986.
Interviewed by Jan Rosenberg for the Texarkana Regional Arts and Humanities Council (TRAHC) Folklife Program. Interview was not created by Holtzberg as part of her research.
Includes notes from interviews and interactions with Culp conducted between June 1985 and June 1987, in addition to a transcript for the recorded March 14th 1986 interview. Photographs are four portraits likely by Maggie Holtzberg.
Recordings from a trip to Heritage Printers, which was a fully operating hot metal print shop in Charlotte, North Carolina. Includes interviews with Bob Earnhardt, Bill (Earl) Loftin, Rick Newell, and Earl Powell.
Transcript is Holtzberg's first-person narrative recounting of her experience visiting Heritage Printers in Charlotte, North Carolina, and interviewing the employees.
John Spencer Co. was a print shop that had been in business since 1864. When the company closed, Holtzberg attended the auction of its assets. Included are public notices of the auction, Holtzberg's notes, photographs, and recordings of the event, and one printing industry journal article reporting on the event.
Includes materials promoting and documenting the auction and photos of the workshop and auction.
Includes subject file about Mr. Powers, and one letter from him.
Documentation and recordings of Holtzberg's trip to the Union Printers Home, from February 1st to 5th 1988. The Union Printers Home, founded in 1892, was a low cost retirement facility located in Colorado Springs, Colorado, for members of the International Typographical Union. Series includes notes, recordings, and photographs from Holtzbergs visit, and ephemera and research materials documenting the Home. Holtzberg's interview with Tony Donagy was not recorded, and materials for it are contained in the "Transcripts" and "Interview Notes and Research Materials" folders.
Transcripts for all the recordings in the series except the "Museum Tour." Also includes the transcript for Holtzberg's interview with Tony Donagy, which was not recorded.
Interview notes for all the recordings in the series. Also includes the notes for Holtzberg's interview with Tony Donagy, which was not recorded.
Includes interviews with Phil Weinstein and Fred Zaner
Includes notes from Holtzberg's interviews and interactions with Rudy De Felice, Bill Glick, Richard Grasby, and John Peckham.
Series primarily contains records, manuscripts, and research materials created or collected by Holtzberg related to her study of "hot metal" typesetting during her PhD research in folklore and folklife and the publication of her manuscript "The Lost World of the Craft Printer." The major subseries is "The Lost World of the Craft Printer," which contains production files and correspondence with the University of Illinois Press concerning the editing and publication of that book. A unique subseries otherwise unrelated to the other records in the collection is Holtzberg's journals from her time as a high school student at the Trailside Country School in 1972-1973.
Holtzberg's correspondence and notes from interactions with advisors, including Henry Glassie, Ray Birdwhistell, Dan Traister, and Alastair Reid. Also includes readings, her notes on methodology, and drafts of papers and articles.
Includes some correspondence with others, including Alastair Reid and Judith McCulloh, and letters which Archie Green wrote to others on behalf of Holtzberg.
Records concerning the contracting, editing, production, and release of Holtzberg's 1992 manuscript, The Lost World of the Craft Printer for the University of Illinois Press. The correspondence in the subseries includes some additional information about Holtzberg's research interview subjects.
Materials and layout mockups for a majority of the illustrations and photographs in The Lost World of the Craft Printer. Includes prints of some of the slides in the Union Printers Home photographs folder (box 1, folder 18).
"No More High Hats" was the working title for the Lost World of the Craft Printer. The files are a pre-print draft of the book saved on a 5.25" floppy. They are wordperfect 5.1 formatted, and appear to have some data corruption. This floppy was originally housed in box two, folder six. The floppy has been reformatted to a digital disk image and the files are available in the Folklife Reading Room by request.
Judith McCulloh was Holtzberg's Executive Editor for The Lost World of the Craft Printer. Correspondence concerns the contracting, editing, and production of the book.
Correspondence concerns the licensing of works for reproduction in The Lost World of the Craft Printer
Includes correspondence securing permissions from informants and interviewees' for reuse of their statements. Includes some correspondence with interviewees and their families, and information on some interviewees' whereabouts in 1992.
Professional and personal reviews of the Lost World of the Craft Printer, including some correspondence with printers.
Correspondence concerns the editing, design, production, and promotion of The Lost World of the Craft Printer. Three of the photographs are historical pictures of the Union Printers Home.
Photocopy reproduction of "Old Times in the Print Shop" booklet from 1939, produced by Sam'l Bingham's Son MFG. CO. in Chicago. The booklet features illustrations and descriptions of the lifestyles and culture of printers in the 1920s.
Newspaper clippings, ephemera, notes, and other materials concerning the history and culture of printers and the printing trade.
Holtzberg placed adds reaching out to printing professionals in both the March/April 1986 issue of the American Printing History Association Newsletter and the April 1986 issue of "The Printer" serial. The folder includes a few brief responses to those requests, and copies of the serials.
Photograph is a still from Schlesinger's documentary film "Farewell, Etaoin Shrdlu."
Two journals written while Maggie Holtzberg was a student at the Trailside Country School, based in Killington, Vermont. The Trailside Country School was a traveling high school run by Michael Cohen and Diana Cohen that taught cultural documentation. The notebooks include diary entries, song lyrics, music transcription, and ephemera from locations throughout the United States where the students traveled.
Collection of manuscripts and publications comprising the records of the Cooperative Recreation Service (Delaware, Ohio) and additions by subsequent owners, including World Around Songs, a division of Compassion Books, Inc. Includes correspondence with authors and collectors of songs and games; copyright and permission files; most of the original publications of the CRS; folders of individual folk dance and folk song titles pasted-up for publication; and master negatives of songs and games for publication. Genres include American and International folk songs, Contemporary songs, Humorous songs, Work songs, Carols, Rounds, Spirituals, Hymns, and Canons. Popular titles published by the Cooperative Recreation Service include: Handy play party book (1940, 1982); Work and sing: an international songbook (1944, 1948); Look away: 50 Negro folk songs (1960, 1963); Songs of all time (1946, 1957); African songs (1958); Songs of the wigwam (1955); Little book of carols (1960); One tune more: songs of America (1961); and Handy folklore (1955); among many others.
This series includes the range of custom songbooks and recreation publications published during the lifespan of Cooperative Recreation Service and including some publications from the transition to World Around Songs publishing company. Arranged alphabetically, each box including a range of songbooks.
Published songbooks, both by World Around Songs, as well as by other publishers that served as research and reference materials for the publishing company. List of publications and bibliographic information included in Published materials.
Individual song sheet cards and song master negatives used for research and publication of custom songbooks. Arranged alphabetically.
Includes Song Master sheets and Folk Dance files.
Folk Dance files.
Song master negatives compiled for Cooperative Recreation Service publications.
Sketches and negative cutouts used to print songbooks.
Sketches and negative cutouts used to print songbooks.
Sketches and negative cutouts used to print songbooks.
Sketches and negative cutouts used to print songbooks.
Sketches and negative cutouts used to print songbooks.
Manuscripts associated with the publication of Cooperative Recreation Service and World Around Songs songbooks. Includes correspondence with organizations from geographic areas that songbooks are about, as well as copyright, licensing, permissions, and other publishing research. Documentation of research associated with the songbooks, including related song lists, song indexes, and notes.
Includes African Songs custom songbook, as well as related planning materials.
Planning materials and copyright information for Tent and Trail Songs custom songbook.
Correspondence about between Anchorage School District staff and Cooperative Recreation Service (Nancy Cope) about using songs and songbooks.
Correspondence with Walter Anderson, professor at Antioch College.
John C. Campbell Folk School, Pine Mountain Settlement School information.
Correspondence between Boy Scouts of America and World Around Songs (Nancy Cope).
Correspondence between the Bright School and World Around Songs (Nancy Cope) about developing song lists for their custom songbook.
Includes "Our Own Songbook: Buffalo State College" custom songbook.
Includes Burma Sings custom songbook and materials relating to its publication.
Materials relating to the Camp Arteban songbook.
Correspondence relating to the production of the Camp Hebron songbook.
Correspondence relating to a proposed new song collection for the Canadian Girls in Training Association.
Song sheets, song master negatives, and correspondence relating to the Cantos custom songbook.
Correspondence and song sheets relating to the Caribbean Folk Songs and Games custom songbook.
Correspondence relating to various songbooks for young children.
Correspondence relating to various songbooks for young children.
Correspondence about permissions for a songbook of farming and gardening songs for the Carolina Farm Stewardship Association.
Correspondence, permissions, song sheets, budget notes, and shipping invoices for the Carolina Farm Stewardship Association songbook.
Correpondence, permissions, and song sheets relating to the Children's Songs for a Friendly Planet songbook.
Correpondence, permissions, and song sheets relating to the Children's Songs for a Friendly Planet songbook.
Includes The Pagoda songbook, as well as correspondence and other notes pertaining to the songbook of Chinese folk songs.
Includes Come Friends... songbook, as well as song master negatives.
Includes schedules, reports, and programs for singing and recreation oriented camps and conferences, some of which were led by Lynn Rohrbaugh. Includes correspondence, including a 1940 letter from Olive Dame Campbell.
Copyright research and correspondence about songs and permissions.
Includes copyright deposits for custom songbooks.
Correspondence and research about games and songs from India, Africa, and Jamaica.
Includes notes and lists of songs.
Correspodence and research material for a book project for Pilgrim Center.
Includes German folk song sheet music and notes.
Correspondence and notes about a possible songbook for the East Ohio Conference.
Includes custom songbook, correspondence, permissions, and research for Scout Around Songs: Easton Girl Scouts songbook.
Includes 43 songs from the East West custom songbook.
Includes custom songbook, as well as sheet music and notes surrounding the preparation of the book.
Correspondence.
Correspondence with Max Exner, specialist at Cooperative Extension Service in Agriculture and Home Economics, State of Iowa.
Correspondence with Max Exner, specialist at Cooperative Extension Service in Agriculture and Home Economics, State of Iowa.
Production materials and correspondence for My Heart Sings custom songbook.
Cooperative Recreation Service financial statements from Certified Public Accountants Kent and Zerbe.
Cooperative Recreation Service financial statements from Certified Public Accountants Kent and Zerbe.
Cooperative Recreation Service financial statements from Certified Public Accountants Kent and Zerbe.
Includes correspondence, notes, proposals, invoices, and indexes.
Includes financial statements and tax information.
Includes inventories of custom songbooks and Power of Attorney.
Includes Sing for the Fun of It custom songbook, as well as notes and correspondence relating to the book's publication.
Correspondence and 1 black-and-white photographic print about the Folk Dances for Fun custom songbook by Jane Farwell.
Includes For Happy Singing custom songbook, as well as notes, correspondence, indexes, licenses, and permissions.
Includes Four and Twenty Carols and Holiday Songs custom songbook and correspondence.
Cards and notes about individual songs.
Includes two copies of Children's Songs for a Friendly Planet custom songbook, as well as invoices, correspondence, and notes.
Includes Friends Sing in Spirit and in Truth, collected for the Fifth World Conference of Friends, as well as correspondence, invoices, copyrights, and notes.
Research materials about games.
Correspondence and notes about song permissions.
Invoices, correspondence, notes, and song indexes.
Permissions, invoices, royalty information, correspondence, and notes.
Includes three copies of Girl Scouts of Hoosier Capital Council 90th Anniversary Sing-Along custom songbook, correspondence, notes, and song lists.
Includes correspondence, permissions, correspondence, and notes.
Includes Grace at Table custom songbook, song list, and song sheet negative.
Includes copies and different versions of Grandma Sings custom songbook, correspondence, notes, song sheets, lyrics, and song master negatives.
Includes Great Day custom songbook, correspondence, and an invoice.
Includes invoices, correspondence, notes, and song lists with the Great Valley Girl Scout Council.
Notes and quote for printing songbook.
Includes copies and different versions of Guiana Sings custom songbook, correspondence, notes, song master sheet, and song master negatives.
Includes Guiana Sings custom songbook, notes, and correspondence with St. Peter's A.M.E. Church in Guyana, South America.
Recorded Guiana folk songs by Mr. Rafik Khan, Programme Director of the British Guiana United Broadcasting Company.
Correspondence about a custom songbook for the Great Valley Girl Scout Council in Pennsylvania.
Correspondence about the reprint of the custom songbook for the Great Valley Girl Scout Council in Pennsylvania.
Includes correspondence, and copyright and royalty information.
Correspondence, invoices, and songbook drafts for Sing a Song & Clap a Song All Year Long custom songbook.
Correspondence, permissions, invoices, and notes about Happiness is a Song custom songbook.
Permissions for Happy Days custom songbook.
Draft of Happy Meeting: Folk Songs from Czechoslovakia custom songbook.
Correspondence about the Polish American custom songbook, Having Fun the Polish Way.
Includes Hawaiian Sampler and Aloha Sampler custom songbooks, as well as correspondence, notes, and song lists from Hawaii churches and organizations.
Includes Aloha Sampler custom songbook and song master negatives.
Includes Hearts Full of Song custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, permissions, invoices, and notes.
Copyright information, notes, song lists, and correspondence.
Notes, correspondence, and song sheets relating to a revisions for a reprint of the Hearts Full of Song custom songbook.
Copyright and permission information for songs for the Girl Scouts of Hoosier Capital custom songbook.
Hymns for Today custom songbook, related correspondence with James Carley, and song lists and notes.
Correspondence with the National Federation of Music Clubs about the Hymns of the Month booklet.
Copyrights, permissions, correspondence, and song sheets related to the Hymns of Universal Praise custom songbook.
Inlcudes three copies of Songs for Illinois Clubwomen custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, notes, and lists.
Includes correspondence, song lists, song sheets, song master negatives, and notes.
Includes various versions of Joyful Songs of India, as well as song lists, Hindi song sheet music and lyrics, and India choir information.
Includes 15 songs. Tape being treated for mold.
Correspondence with Purdue University staff, invoices, and permissions information.
Indiana Sings custom songbook, as well as related correspondence.
Larry Eisenberg publication and notes.
Includes different versions of Itinerary in Song custom songbook, as well as song lists and indexes and notes.
Includes correspondence with Helen and Larry Eisenberg, as well as loose song sheets.
Corrrespondence, license, copyrights, song indexes, cover drafts, and introduction to Joyful Noise custom songbook.
Licenses, permissions, and publishing agreements.
Includes loose song sheets and lists.
Includes correspondence with Helen and Larry Eisenberg, as well as billing statements, cost analyses for publication, and notes.
Includes correspondence with Helen and Larry Eisenberg, as well as correspondence, song lists, and copyright, license and permissions information.
Includes correspondence, rights and permissions information, and information about proposed revisions for Make a Joyful Noise custom songbook.
Includes copies of Joyful Singing custom songbook, as well as related permissions, correspondence, invoices, and licenses.
Includes custom songbooks and song master negatives.
Various editions of Junior High Sing, related correspondence, notes, and annotated song lists.
Includes Sing a Green Valley custom songbook, and related correspondence, invoices, song lists, song sheets, and notes.
Includes "Meadowland (Cavalry of the Steppes)" and other sheet music.
Includes Celebration Song Book custom songbook, and related invoices, correspondence, shipping labels, song lists, song sheets, and notes.
Includes Let's Sing custom songbook, as well as related license agreements, permission requests, and correspondence.
Includes Songs for Camps and Reunions custom songbook, licenses, permissions, publishing agreements, and correspondence.
Includes annotated song sheets, licenses, permissions, publishing agreements, and correspondence.
Includes two copies of Life on the H2O custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, research, and notes.
Lift Every Voice accompaniment edition (copyright, 1953).
Includes CGIT custom songbook, as well as related correspondence with Canadian Girls in Training (CGIT) and information about a new songbook for CGIT.
Includes information about CGIT, sheet music, and lyric sheets, correspondence, and notes.
Includes Lift Your Voices Again custom songbooks, cover designs, information about orders of books, song lists, shipping statements, and correspondence.
Includes notes, song sheets, song lists, and copyright information for the Lutheran Marriage Encounter custom songbook.
Includes cover design for Marin Sings: 15 Years of Girl Scout Music custom songbook, as well as song lists, indexes, royalty information, invoices and research.
Includes Mar-lu-Ridge Songbook custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, song lists, indexes, and information about a reprint of the songbook.
Includes Merry Hours: Favorite Hungarian Folk Songs custom songbook and related correspondence.
Includes licenses, song sheets, permission requests, invoices, notes, correspondence related to Happiness is a Song and New Horizons custom songbooks.
Includes song lists, permission requests, invoices, notes, correspondence related to Happiness is a Song and New Horizons custom songbooks.
Includes Convocation Song Book custom songbook, as well as cover designs, correspondence, and invoices for book orders.
Includes permission requests, license agreements, quotes, and correspondence related to the Sing a Mile Hi custom songbook.
Includes notes, correspondence, sheet music, song lists, and a cover design for Sing a Mile High custom songbook.
Includes the reprint of Sing a Mile Hi custom songbook, as well as correspondence, information about royalties, copyrights, and song sheets.
Includes two versions of the reprints of the Minnesota 4-H Songbook custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, copyright information, and notes.
Includes correspondence, notes, and copyright information about reprints of custom songbooks.
Includes two copies of Song Bag: Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, song lists and indexes, permission requests, shipping charts, notes, and song sheets.
Permission information, song lists, correspondence, and song sheets for Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Council songbook.
Includes permission and copyright information, songsheets, correspondence, and notes.
Includes three copies of Let's Sing custom songbook, as well as rights and permissions information, correspondence, invoices, and notes.
Includes correspondence, song lists, invoices, copyright and permissions information, and notes for the Mo-Ranch Presbyterian Camp songbook.
Music Shall Live custom songbook.
Includes a custom book contract, song indexes, correspondence, and song sheets.
Includes sheet music and cover design for Light the Candle custom song book.
Includes license requests, copyright information, and correspondence relating to the Light the Candle custom songbook.
Includes Singing the Lord's Song custom songbook, and related correspondence, shipping charts, song lists, invoices, and notes.
Includes notes, correspondence, and annotated song lists.
Including United Methodists Sing custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, permissions information, song indexes, and notes.
Includes annotated song lists related to the Camp Newaygo custom songbook.
Correspondence and permissions information for the reprint of the Newaygo custom songbook.
Correspondence, permissions information, shipping information, song lyrics, and notes related to the reprint of the Newaygo custom songbook.
Song sheets from Camp Newaygo Sings and cover design for Camp Newaygo Sings II.
Draft of Camp Newaygo Sings.
Camp Newaygo Sings II custom songbook.
Permissions, copyright information, and correspondence related to NC Lutheran Marriage Encounter.
Includes two editions of Sing...For the World Needs a Song... custom songbook, invoices, correspondence, shipping information, song sheets, and permissions information.
Includes correspondence, permissions, royalty, and license information, and invoices.
Includes three copies of Songs From the Hills custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, song lists and indexes, shipping information and invoices, and notes.
Includes correspondence, licensing information, song sheets and sheet music, invoices, and notes.
Includes layouts and cover designs for Songs From the Hills custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, song lists, licenses, publishing agreements, and notes.
Includes correspondence, song lists, shipping information, invoices, song sheets, sheet music, and notes.
Includes song lists, correspondence, and permission and copyright information for the Ohio United Church of Christ.
Permissions, copyright, license, and royalty information for Ohio United Church of Christ.
Includes Children's Songs for a Friendly Planet custom songs book, and related shipping information, song sheets and pages from songbooks.
Includes One in Song custom songbooks, correspondence, song sheets and pages from songbooks, and permissions information.
One Tune More custom songbooks, indexes, and permission request.
Includes song sheets, pages from songbooks, and notes.
Shipping information from Oxford University Press.
Shipping information, song lyrics, song sheets, parts of songbooks, song indexes, correspondence, permissions information, and notes related to Our Northwest Sings! custom songbook.
Includes correspondence, song lists, permissions information, and notes related to Our Northwest Sings! custom songbook.
Three copies of Our Northwest Sings! custom songbook and related correspondence.
Permissions, correspondence, and other related information about Our Northwest Sings! custom songbook.
Copies of The Pagoda custom songbook, as well as portions of the songbook, sheet music, song indexes, and correspondence.
Includes correspondence, permissions agreements, song sheets, copyright information, and notes.
Copies of Songs From Our Heritage custom songbook, as well as cover designs, song lists, permissions information, and copyright information.
Includes invoices, correspondence, and permissions information related to the Peace Corps Packet Folk Songs.
Includes Songs From the Keystone State custom songbook, as well as related correspondence.
Song lists and correspondence from the Penn Wood's Girl Scout Council.
Includes Songs for the Keystone State custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, royalty information, and notes.
Includes Songs for the Keystone State custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, shipping information, invoices, and notes.
Notes, correspondence, royalty information, and permissions information related to the Let's Sing custom songbook for the Permian Basin Girl Scout Council.
Notes, correspondence, royalty information, and permissions information related to the Let's Sing custom songbook for the Permian Basin Girl Scout Council.
Permissions, licensing, royalty, and publishing information for Camp Newaygo songbooks.
Permissions agreements, correspondence, songbook, song sheets, and hearing information for Marvin Frey.
Permissions information and notes for World Around Songs.
Pamphlets and journals related to employment laws in North Carolina.
Includes notes and correspondence.
Information about the Philip Lief Group, an independent book development company.
Correspondence, notes, sheet music, and song lists related to Tayo'y Umawit custom songbook.
Correspondence, shipping, printing, and license information for the Pioneer Clubs.
Song sheets and song master negatives from Pioneer Girls custom songbook.
Includes New Festival Sounds custom songbook, as well as related book designs, indexes, invoices, song sheets, and correspondence.
Includes Songfest and New Festival Sounds custom songbooks, as well as related correspondence, song indexes, permissions information, notes.
Includes copies of A Pocket Full of Songs custom songbook, song master negatives, and song indexes.
Permissions information and song master negatives for Pocket Hymnal and 88 Top Songs custom songbooks.
Correspondence and copyright information for Pocketfull of Songs custom songbook.
Copies of A Sampler of Polish Folk Songs custom songbook, as well as related song sheets, song proofs, song indexes, and song lyrics.
Song indexes, cover designs, lists, and two custom songbooks, A Chance to Sing and All Sing.
Includes correspondence and copyright information.
Correspondence between Jean Putnam and World Around Songs.
Includes three copies of Songs of Gold (Red Lands Council of Girl Scouts) custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, permission and copyright information.
Correspondence, permission and copyright information, and notes related to the Red Lands Council of Girl Scouts.
Includes New Horizons custom songbook, and related permissions and copyright information, correspondence, song sheets, and notes.
Includes correspondence with Rev. Art Allen, as well as permissions and copyright information.
Correspondence between Jean Ritchie and Lynn Rohrbough.
Correspondence between Jean Ritchie and Lynn Rohrbough.
Includes Songs You Love to Sing custom songbook, as well as related song lists, indexes, book layouts and designs, and correspondence.
Includes correspondence and material related to the Cooperative Recreation Service business.
Correspondence by and with Lynn Rohrbough, including with Olcutt and Phyllis Sanders from Bogota, Colombia.
Correspondence by and with Lynn and Katherine Rohrbough, including with Olcutt and Phyllis Sanders about songbooks and personal matters. Includes three photographic prints.
Includes correspondence, and Family Songs: Rohrbough Lynch Reunion, San Diego 1991 songbook.
Includes two copies of Sacred Canons custom songbook, as well as related copyright registrations, permissions, and cover designs.
Correspondence with Tony Saletan, American folk singer and educator.
Includes A Sampler of Japanese Songs custom songbook, song master negatives, and drafts of the songbook.
Includes Sampler Sixty custom songbook and song master negatives.
Includes correspondence, permissions, and copyright information.
Includes One in Song custom songbook, as well as related permissions information from G. Schirmer, Inc.
Includes correspondence with Ed. L. Schirmer of United Church Board for Homeland Ministries.
Includes song indexes and song master negatives.
Includes The Council Songbook custom songbook, as well as related song indexes, song sheets, correspondence, invoices, and notes.
Includes Music Shall Live: Girl Scout Songbook, as well as related song indexes, lists, correspondence, and permissions for Kum Ba Yah from Marvin V. Frey as well in addition to other permissions.
Includes Music Shall Live: Girl Scout Songbook, custom songbook and song master negatives for the songbook.
Includes correspondence and a 1982 issue of the Sing Out! Bulletin.
Correspondence to and from Pete Seeger, Joe Hickerson, Augustus Zanzig, and Mary Tolbert.
Correspondence and permissions information with and relating to Seiwa College for Christian Workers in Japan.
Includes lists of sets, songs, locations, and names.
Includes Seven Lakes Songbook custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, notes, permissions information, song lists, and song sheets.
Includes correspondence, cover designs, ordering material, song indexes, and song sheets.
Book designs, permissions, correspondence, notes, and sheet music related to the Sierra Club custom songbook.
Correspondence, notes, and price estimages for the Sierra Club custom song book.
Song lists, correspondence, and permission information about the Sierra Club custom songbook.
Correspondence and permission information about the Sierra Club custom song book.
Correspondence, permission information, and sheet music about the Sing a Tune custom songbook.
Correspondence, song lists, and notes related to the Sing a Tune custom song book.
Copyright, permissions and copyright information, correspondence, shipping information, and notes relating to the Sing Again and Again custom song book.
Copyright, permissions and copyright information, correspondence, shipping information, and notes relating to the Sing Again and Again custom song book.
Includes Sing Around the World custom songbook and related song indexes.
Notes and correspondence related to the Sing For Joy custom songbook.
Two copies of Sing it Again custom songbook, as well as related song master negatives, correspondence, and song indexes.
Royalty payment information, correspondence, and licenses related to the 1989 edition of Singing the Lord's Song.
Royalty payment information, correspondence, and licenses related to the 1991 edition of Singing the Lord's Song.
Includes correspondence, permissions, publishing, and licensing information related to the Singing the Lord's Song custom songbook.
Shipping information, correspondence, and permission information related to the Singing the Lord's Song custom songbook.
Includes Singing the Lord's Song custom songbook, as well as related correspondence and license, permissions, publishing, and copyright information.
Includes correspondence and license, permissions, publishing, and copyright information.
Includes Singing the Lord's Song: United Methodist Men custom songbook, as well as drafts of the songbook, correspondence and license, copyright, and publishing information.
Song information, and check lists of plates in songbooks.
Includes song sheets and notes in preparation for custom songbooks.
Includes song sheets and notes in preparation for custom songbooks.
Songbook reports for custom songbooks, including numbers of copies printed and favorite songs.
Songbook reports for custom songbooks, including numbers of copies printed and favorite songs.
Songbook reports for custom songbooks, including catalogs, order forms, numbers of copies printed and favorite songs.
Songbook reports for custom songbooks, including catalogs, order forms, numbers of copies printed and favorite songs.
Includes song sheets and typesetting examples, song indexes, and song master negatives.
Song workshop and song leading information.
Includes Music for the Mountains (Songs From Our Heritage) custom songbook, as well as related publishing information, correspondence, permissions, song lists, and notes.
Includes correspondence with Jefferson County Public Schools staff, as well as song sheets and publishing information.
Includes Songs for Camp custom songbook, as well as related notes, correspondence, and publishing information.
Includes copies of Songs for Methodist Men custom songbook, as well as related notes, correspondence, and publishing information.
Includes Songs of Many Nations custom songbook, a cover design sketch, and song master negatives, as well as related correspondence and notes.
Includes two copies of Songs of Many Nations custom songbook, as well as song lists, indexes, song sheets, and correspondence.
Copyright form and related information, song lists, and correspondence related to Songs of Sharing custom songbook and the National Council on Aging.
Includes copies of Songs of the Wigwam custom songbook and related song lists and copyright information.
Includes song sheets, song indexes, and communication with W.R. Music Service.
Includes copies of Songs to Keep custom songbook, as well as song sheets, song indexes, correspondence, book design materials, and other publishing information.
Correspondence, permissions, and copyright information related to the Songs to Sing Again and Again custom songbook.
Correspondence, permissions, copyright information, notes, and publication information related to the Songs to Sing Again and Again custom songbook. Includes correspondence with the Library of Congress Archive of Folk Song.
Correspondence, song lists, song indexes, and permissions information related to the South Central Sings custom songbook.
Correspondence, song lists, song master negatives, and permissions and publishing information related to the Sprituals custom songbook (includes two copies).
Correspondence, permissions, licensing information, song lists, and other publishing information related to the Spruce Lake Retreat custom songbooks.
Includes African Songs custom songbook, as well as song sheets and song master negatives.
Includes correspondence and copyright information related to the "Songbook for Iowa Methodists."
Research, correspondence, and a drawing related to the song "May There Always Be Sunshine."
Includes Sing Scout Sing custom songbook and related correspondence, permissions, and publishing information.
Includes correspondence, permissions, copyright information, song master negatives related to the Sing Scout Sing custom songbook and the Girl Scouts of Southwestern Pennsylvania.
Includes Swiss Alpine Songs custom songbook, as well as related correspondence with the Swiss National Tourist Office and Hug & Foetisch Musique.
Includes song lyrics and song sheets related to the Talus Rock Girl Scouts Sing custom songbook.
Includes Tayo'y Umawit - Let's Sing! custom songbook and related song sheets, correspondence, and permissions information.
Includes correspondence with composer Frances Thomas and sheet music.
Includes correspondence with composer Frances Thomas and sheet music.
Correspodence with Janet Tobitt of Girl Scouts of the United States of America and Lynn Rohrbough.
Correspodence with Janet Tobitt of Girl Scouts of the United States of America and Lynn Rohrbough, and songbooks compiled by Janet Tobitt, such as Folk Songs of the East.
Includes correspondence with music educator, Mary Tolbert, and My Pocket Paul of 88 Songs custom songbook.
Includes copies of Top Score custom songbook, as well as song sheets, song master negatives, song lists, and correspondence.
Inlcudes correspondence, song research, and notes related to the Trinidad-Tobago Play Party Book.
Includes selections of sheet music and dance and game instruction from Five Folk Songs (Singing Games) of the Caribbean by J.D. Elder.
Includes copies of Seed Songs of Earth and Spirit by Jim Manley as well as related publication, correspondence, and shipping information.
Includes publication materials related to Seed Songs of Earth and Spirit, as well as other publications by Jim Manley.
Includes Tunes for Terrapins: The UMCP Songbook custom songbook, as well as related correspondence, rights and permissions information, song sheets, and song master negatives.
Book designs, sheet music, and correspondence related to the Tunes for Terrapins: The UMCP Songbook custom songbook.
Includes sheet music, notes, and correspondence with Dr. Lois N. Harrison of University of Oregon School of Music.
Sheet music for dances.
Sheet music for dances.
Includes copies of Vermont Sings custom songbook, as well as related indexes, song master negatives, notes, and correspondence from the State of Vermont Board of Recreation, Montpelier.
Paper titled "Notes by Robin on phone conversation with Guy Carawan, July 17, 1984" about the origins of the song "We Shall Overcome."
Correspondence and permissions information related to Evelyn Weiss and the Peace Songbook.
Includes sheet music relating to Evelyn Weiss publications.
Correspondence, song lists, song sheets, song indexes, and permissions information related to the West Virginia 4-H custom songbook.
Correspondence, song lists, song sheets, song indexes, song master negatives, and copyright, permissions, and publication information related to the West Virginia 4-H custom songbook.
Permissions information related to the song "Westering Home."
Correspondence, permissions, and copyright information related to the songbook for the Western Massachusetts Girl Scout Council.
Includes The American Guild of Organists Youngstown Chapter Presents: Hymns in a World Community custom songbook, as well as correspondence with Bliss and Mildred Wiant of Chung Chi College.
Includes song sheets by composer, Helen Wing, song master negatives, and correspondence.
Correspondence with Irwin Abrams of the American Friends Service Committee and others, as well as song research, lists, and other publication information.
Correspondence, permission, and publication information from Hans-Peter Muller of the Co-ordination Committee for International Voluntary Work Camps c/o Youth Section, UNESCO.
Correspondence with individuals and organizations around the world relating to Cooperative Recreation Service song and game books.
Correspondence with individuals and organizations around the world relating to the Work and Sing custom songbook and other Cooperative Recreation Service song and game books.
Correspondence with individuals and organizations around the world relating to the Work and Sing custom songbook and other Cooperative Recreation Service song and game books.
Includes copies of Work and Sing: an International Songbook custom songbook as well as related correspondence and publication information.
Articles about Lynn Rohrbaugh and Cooperative Recreation Service, and correspondence with Fisk University professor John W. Work.
Sheet music with dance movement instruction of dances from around the world.
Sheet music with dance movement instruction of dances from around the world.
Correspondence with Augustus D. Zanzig about Cooperative Recreation Service and song selections for custom songbooks.
Correspondence with Augustus D. Zanzig, song lists, and other information about songs, dances, and game books.
Correspondence with Augustus D. Zanzig, song lists, song sheets, and other information about songs, dances, and game books.
Includes correspondence, song lists, and samplers of poetry and sayings Augustus sent to Cooperative Recreation Service for consideration.
Correspondence regarding publication information for custom songbooks.
Correspondence regarding song selections for custom songbooks.
Correspondence and song suggestions for custom songbooks.
Correspondence with Zebe Publishing, a music publishing company in Hamburg, Germany, asking permissions to print a C.R.S. custom songbook in Europe.
Research materials for custom songbooks. Song index lists and cards include geographic origins, language, musical type, and copyright status of each song. Includes permissions and copyright registrations.
Alphabetical index cards of song titles and which custom songbook each song is associated with, year of publication, and composer information.
Alphabetical list of songs and permissions requested and granted for each song for Cooperative Recreation custom songbooks.
Alphabetical list of songs and permissions requested and granted for each song for Cooperative Recreation custom songbooks.
Sheet music for short pieces.
Sheet music for short pieces.
Alphabetical listing of countries and their associated songs.
Alphabetical listing of countries and their associated songs.
Alphabetical index cards of song titles, publishing companies, and dates.
Alphabetical list of songs and associated copyright registrations and application information.
Index of copyright songs, owners, and royalties, as well as copyright research materials.
Alphabetical listing of songs, geographic origins, language, musical type, and copyright status.
Alphabetical listing of songs, geographic origins, language, musical type, and copyright status.
Alphabetical listing of songs, geographic origins, language, musical type, and copyright status.
Alphabetical listing of songs, geographic origins, language, musical type, and copyright status.
Alphabetical index cards with song titles and custom songbook associated with each song.
Alphabetical index cards with song titles and custom songbook associated with each song.
Alphabetical index cards with song titles and custom songbook associated with each song.
Alphabetical list of song titles, copyright status, and song type.
Collection of video recordings, photographs, promotional and publicity materials, clippings, posters, and ephemera from the career of David Bromberg, musician, singer-songwriter, and luthier, from around 1962 to 2013, including recordings of his performances at concerts and folk festivals around the United States as well as overseas and various interviews with Bromberg. Includes photographs of other folk music and popular music performers.
Tape 1 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 2 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 3 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 4 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 5 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 6 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 7 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 8 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 9 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 10 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 11 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 12 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 13 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 15 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 16 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 17 of a group of 17 tapes.
Tape 1 of a group of 7 tapes. Part 1: "Danger Man" intro, "Hit the Road Jack," "If You Don't Want Me, Baby," "Rock and Roll Millionaire."
Tape 2 of a group of 7 tapes. Tracks: "Kaatskill Serenade," "Travelling Man," "Yankee's Revenge."
Tape 3 of a group of 7 tapes.
Tape 4 of a group of 7 tapes.
Tape 5 of a group of 7 tapes.
Tape 6 of a group of 7 tapes.
Tape 7 of a group of 7 tapes.
Tape 1 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 2 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 3 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 4 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 5 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 6 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 7 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 8 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 9 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 10 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 11 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 12 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 13 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 14 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 15 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 16 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 17 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 18 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 19 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 20 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 21 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 22 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 23 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 24 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 25 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 26 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 27 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 28 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 29 of a group of 29 tapes.
Tape 1 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 2 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 3 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 4 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 5 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 6 of a group of 8 tapes. Tracks: "If You Don't Want Me," Danger Man," "Hit the Road Jack."
Tape 7 of a group of 8 tapes.
Tape 8 of a group of 8 tapes. Tracks: "Danger Man," "Kaatskill."
Bromberg 51, reel 1. Bromberg concert. Audio: ch. 1 (PCM), ch. 2 (EFX), ch. 3 (TC).
Bromberg 41. Cam 4 ISO / TRT 63 [or 65] / reel 1.
Bromberg. Cam 3 ISO / reel 1 / TRT 55 min.
Bromberg 43 / Cam 4 ISO / VTR 1 / reel 3.
Bromberg 53 / VTR 1 / reel 3. Audio: ch. 1 (PCM), ch. 2 (EFX), ch. 3 (TC).
Bromberg 42 / Cam 4 ISO / reel 2 / TRT 55 min.
Bromberg 32.
Bromberg 33.
Bromberg 25 / VTR 1 / reel 2. Container spine and label on tape reel say "Bromberg 52."
David Bromberg 23 / Cam 2 ISO / reel 3 TRT 50
Nashville, Tennessee, during breaks from recording "Aereoplane." Photos featuring John Hartford (with girlfriend Nwanda), Norman Blake, Tut Taylor, Vassar Clements, and Randy Wood (fixing banjo, most likely at the shop "GTR" (George, Tut, Randy).
Grammy nomination photograph. For album "Try Me One More Time."
Photograph by Charles Seton.
Left-Right: John Firmin, Peter Ecklund, Curt Lindbergh, David [surname unknown] on drums, Robert Armiot [surname spelling unknown], Mimi Hart, Nancy Josephson, Jeff Wisor, Dick Fegy.
David Bromberg's apartment.
David Bromberg, Paul Siebel, Jody Stecher. Photograph by Steve Somerstein.
Sam Emerson photograph.
Sam Emerson photograph
Philadelphia Folk Festival.
Jim McGuire photograph.
Mike Thut photograph. Bolton Center, Long Island, New York.
Mike Thut photograph. Bolton Center, Long Island, New York.
Mike Thut photograph. Bolton Center, Long Island, New York.
Mike Thut photograph. Bolton Center, Long Island, New York.
Standing (Left-Right): David Nichtern, Steve Mosely, Donnie Sarlin, Will Scarlet. Seated (Left-Right): Winnie Winston, Jody Stecher, David Bromberg, Steve Burgh.
WBAI radio, Bob Foss' show.
Sarah Shoaf photograph.
The Ark, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Backstage at Tarrytown Music Hall, Tarrytown, New York. Photograph by Thom Wolke.
Iowa. Pre "Boys of the Lough."
The Grand Opera, Wilmington, Delaware
Philadelphia Folk Festival.
Jim McGuire photograph. Philadelphia Folk Festival.
Black and white 8x10 photographic prints. Southeast Asia United States Information Service, Manila and Kuala Lampur.
South America tour lineup: Ned Wright, William Jones, Richard Sparks, Mark Horowitz, and David Bromberg.
10. Postcard with photograph by David Bromberg to then girlfriend, Trudy Wrigley.
South America tour lineup: Ned Wright, William Jones, Richard Sparks, Mark Horowitz, and David Bromberg.
Photograph by Dennis Deloria.
Photograph by Jim McGuire.
Photograph by Jim McGuire.
Violin parts probably by Evan Stover.
Fantasy Records.
Section H, page 1. "One of the Folk" article.
"In Concert, Bromberg, Sept. 16."
Flyer for "David Bromberg's 50th birthday/Big Band Reunion," State Theater, Portland, Maine; "Legendary Performer Celebrating 50th Birthday in Portland."
"Phoenix Singers Due This Afternoon: David Bromberg."
For "Folk Variations with Phil Ochs, Doc Watson, and Special Guest David Bromberg." Philharmonic Hall, Lincoln Center.
"On the Beat. David Bromberg: The Legacy of Sleepy Hollow."
Photographic print of Phoenix Singers waiting for customs clearance in the airtport at Belem, USIS Belem, Brazil.
"Talen on Stage: Stone Poems, Jerry Jeff Walker."
2-layer cover illustration.
"Arlo Guthrie Picks and Strums With a Band of Pals."
"David Bromberg Band Al Teatro Dmitri."
"Wanted Dead or Alive: David Bromberg Review."
"Dylan Album Shows Shift in Direction." 16. "Bromberg Shows Style on Guitar."
"Riffs: A Most Uncommon Festival."
Folklore Center Continuing Folk Festival, "First Solo Show," presented by Izzy Young.
"David Bromber's Parents are His No. 1 Fans."
"Jam Sessions at Radio City"; "Bromberg Flexes His Musical Muscles."
"David Bromberg Just Loves Playing."
"Recording of Special Merit: Jerry Jeff Walker."
"Music at Big Mother: David Bromberg."
"The Lyons Den."
"David Bromberg: Folk Guitar Wizard in His Own Right."
"Pop Music: Bromberg, A Complete Entertainer."
Concert listing for Show at Madison Square Garden felt forum.
Photo and caption for AU concert performance.
"Pop Music: David Bromberg, Entertainer."
"Bromberg and Sebastian: Unlikely."
"Riffs" review of Mother Earth show.
"David Bromberg and Friends."
"Bluegrass Plants Roots in Folk Festival."
Review of Town Hall show.
"Bromberg in Rare Marin Show."
"Overtones and Undercurrents: Amram and Bromberg, 2 Great Performers."
"Nostalgia Lurks at Folk Festival."
"David Bromberg: Folk City, New York," concert review.
"Bromberg, Hartford, Watson Perfect for a Rainy Night" via management promotional flyer.
"Bromberg at Pier."
"Songwriter to Perform at Tavern." 43. Newspaper advertisement for Salt in Newport.
"Instrumentalists Dominate Folk Fest." 45. Indians Win One at Folk Festival."
Advertisement for Brewer and Shipley with David Bromberg at Drew University, Madison, NJ.
"Bromberg Back with Act to Reckon With" via management promotional flyer.
Compiled by Fantasy Records.
Root: Route to Music.
"M-42 David Bromberg Signature Edition Pays Tribute to the Origin of the Original in Guitars."
"At Home With the Blues."
"The Answer Mad."
Cover photograph.
"David Bromberg: Moving Into His Own Spotlight."
"David Bromberg: More Than Blues... Guaranteed!"
"David Bromberg: Master of Many Musical Idioms."
"Bromberg's Out of the Basket."
"Bromberg: Happy Tradesman."
"David Bromberg: The Demon Changes His Disguise."
Album Reviews. "Wanted Dead or Alive: David Bromberg."
Album Reviews. "Midnight on the Water: David Bromberg."
Photograph caption from upcoming UK tour.
"Datebook: Section E"; "Guitarist David Bromberg Was a Virtuoso on the Bay Area Scene Until He Packed Up in 1980--Now He's Back in Circulation."
Compiled by Fantasy Records.
"Bromberg Has Traded Magic for Music."
Item-level numbering for each grouping organized by collection donor.
Kenny Kosek and Bukka White in background.
Tommy Sheehan, bass; Andy Statman.
Dick Fegy, David Bromberg.
Brantley Kearns, Dick Fegy, David Bromberg, Peter Ecklund.
Left-Right: Kenny Kosek, Larry Packer, Neil Rossi, David Bromberg, and Steve Burge.
Edinburgh, Scotland. Jay Ungar, Dave Richardson (Boys of the Lough), Richie Giorgano (tour manager).
Edinburgh, Scotland. Ali and Lucy Bain.
Ireland. David Bromberg, Kevin Burke, Richie Giordano.
Nyon, Switzerland. David Bromberg, Jay Ungar.
Mark Precca photograph.
New York, New York. Mike Tighe photograph.
New York, New York. Mike Tighe photograph.
New York, New York. Mike Tighe photograph.
Jim McGuire photograph.
Jim McGuire proof photograph.
Jim McGuire proof photograph.
Bill Kelly photograph. Long Island, New York. Left-Right: John Firmin, Curt Lindbergh, George Kindler, David Bromberg, Dave Shallock, Dick Fegy.
Left-Right: George Kindler, David Bromberg, Dick Fegy.
John Firmin, Lance Dickerson, Dick Fegy, David Bromberg, Curt Lindbergh, Dave Shallick, George Kindler.
Wayne Porreca photograph.
Wayne Porreca photograph.
David Bromberg, Nancy Josephson, Paula Lockhart, Rachel Gladstone.
Janet Goldberg photograph.
Left-Right (back): Richie Giordano (crew), Curt Lindbergh, John Firmin. Front: Lance Dickerson, Dick Fegy, [first name unknown] Miller (tour manager), Melissa Dickerson in front of Lance.
Left-Right (back): Dennis Leonard (sound), Dick Fagy, Hugh McDonald, John Firmin, Steve Mosely. On ground: Curt Lindbergh, "Suds" (bus driver), George Kindler. Back standing: David Bromberg. Front standing: Angus [surname unknown] (crew), Dave Curtin (crew), Ursula Alexander (tour manager), Carol Reed (lighting).
Mike Thut photograph.
Peter Cunningham photograph.
Janet Goldberg photograph.
David Gahr photograph. Back: David Bromberg, Anita Ball, unidentified, Arif Marden. Middle: Kenny Kosek, Danny O'Keefe, Dr. John (Mac Rebennack). Front: Steve Mosley, Andy Statman, Hugh McDonald.
Kevin Papa photograph.
Kevin Papa photograph.
Morris Stage, Morristown, New Jersey
Sarah Anne Shoaf photograph, California, early 1980s.
Kevin Papa photograph. Left-Right: George Kindler, Dick Fagy, David Bromberg, Steve Mosley, Hugh McDonald, Curt Lindbergh, John Firmin.
Nan L[surname unknown] photograph.
Nan L[surname unknown] photograph.
Nan L[surname unknown] photograph. Gift of Phoebe Snow and David Rubinson.
Mike Thut photograph.
Mike Thut photograph.
Left-Right: Taro Inove, Mark Cosgrove, David Bromberg, Nate Grower.
Left-Right: Taro Inove, Mark Cosgrove, David Bromberg, Nate Grower.
Left-Right: Taro Inove, Mark Cosgrove, David Bromberg, Nate Grower.
Thomas South photograph. Left-Right, front: Mitch Corbin, Robert Amiot, Josh Kanusky, David Bromberg, Alison Newitt, Kathleen Weber, Nate Grower, Nancy Josephson.
Appleseed Recordings, Nashville, Tennessee.
Mike Thut photograph. Tarrytown, New York. Left-Right front: John Firmin, Matt Parker, Peter Ecklund, Curt Lindbergh, Robert Amiot, Josh Kanusky, Alison Newitt, Kathleen Weber, Nancy Josephson.
Mike Thut photograph.
John Firmin, David Brombert, Peter Ecklund, Curt Lindbergh.
Mike Thut photograph. Left-Right: John Firmin, Peter Ecklund, Curt Lindbergh, Josh Kanusky, David Bromberg, Robert Armiot, Mitch Corbin, Nate Grower.
"Radio Unnamable" - Bob Foss' show. Top row: Bob Foss. Musicians: Jody Stecher (guitar), Winnie Winston (banjo), David Bromberg (guitar). Others unknown.
Jim McGuire photo shoot.
Jim McGuire photograph.
Jim McGuire photograph.
Jim McGuire photo shoot.
Jim McGuire photo shoot.
13 x 26 in. poster designed by Gary Houston.
13 x 26 in. poster designed by Gary Houston.
13 x 26 in. poster designed by Gary Houston.
13 x 26 in. poster designed by Gary Houston, signed and numbered.
13 x 26 in. poster designed by Gary Houston, signed by artist and David Bromberg.
18 x 24 in. poster. Numbered and signed.
Original artwork.
Audio recordings of American English dialects from the University of South Alabama, Doy Leale McCall Rare Book & Manuscript Library's Dialect Tape Center collection created by Joseph C. Mele, a former faculty member, between 1975-1980. The collection includes 305 audiocassettes of 30-minute dialect samples recorded by Mele and other recordists (agents) of individuals in 31 states, particularly in the South, with more numerous recordings made in Alabama, Tennessee, North Carolina, Virginia, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Missouri. In addition, 41 recordings were made of English spoken by non-Americans from 23 different countries in Asia, Europe, and Australia, as well as in Mexico, Panama, and Nigeria. The birth year of each speaker is documented and ranges from the 1890s to 1950s. Samples generally consist of two parts: an impromtu monologue and a 44-sentence sequence highlighting each English phoneme.
The collection is arranged alphabetically by state, and then by city, county, or region; then alphabetically by non-U.S. countries. The identification codes were assigned by Joseph Mele: the first two letters are state abbrevations; the following two letters are the race/ethnicity of the interviewee (most often black or caucasian) and their gender; and the numbers are the year the interview was conducted, followed by the birth year of the intervieweee in parentheses. Original order and numbering was maintained. Interviews were conducted by Joseph C. Mele, as well as other linguists and recordists, described as agents.
17-page description of the collection from the University of South Alabama Dialect Tape Center, and inventory of tapes, organized alphabetically by state or country.
Truda Weekley, birthdate: May 30, 1904. ALCF77 (1904). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Diane Hartley, birthdate: September 30, 1953. ALCF (1953). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Burmah La Budde, birthdate: December 2, 1919. ALCF77 (1919). Agent: Roy Clark.
Frances McCullough, birthdate: March 20, 1923. ALCF79 (1923). Agent: Roy Clark.
Bertha Bosarge, birthdate: September 7, 1931. ALCF79 (1931). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Arthur W. McRay, birthdate: November 9, 1937. ALCM79 (1937). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Richard Gazzier, birthdate: 1947. ALCM79 (1947). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Vera V. Bosarge, birthdate: January 23, 1957. ALCF79 (1957). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Ashley Nolan, birthdate: March 23, 1896. ALCM78 (1896). Agent: JoAnn Kierce.
George Randall, birthdate: April 1, 1899. ALCM76 (1899). Agent: JoAnn Kierce.
Gerald F. Wilkes, birthdate: August 9, 1920. ALCM78 (1920). Agent: JoAnn Kierce.
Annie Deloris Caro Faulk, birthdate: January 20, 1894. ALCF76 (1894). Agent: Dr. R.P. Clark.
John Clarence Blue, birthdate: January 15, 1906. ALCM77 (1906). Agent: Roy Clark.
Bertha Presley, birthdate: May 23, 1935. ALBF79 (1925). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Ervin Cates, birthdate: September 18, 1929. ALCM77 (1929). Agent: Roy Clark.
Minnie Ridgeway, birthdate: December 6, 1918. ALBF78 (1918). Agent: JoAnne Kierce.
Gladys V. Johnson, birthdate: October 1, 1912. ALBF78 (1912). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Daniel J. Bosarge, birthdate: September 13, 1956. ALCM79 (1956). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
George M. Hartin, birthdate: June 5, 1912. ALCM77 (1912). Agent: Roy Clark.
Neil Tarver, birthdate: December 25, 1921. ALCF77 (1921). Agent: Roy Clark.
Carl C. Cooper, birthdate: July 5, 1908. ALCM76 (1908). Agent: Dr. R.P. Clark.
Jack Cox, birthdate: July 26, 1921. ALCM78 (1921). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Bygie Moncrief, birthdate: December 24, 1915. ALCM77 (1915). Agent: Roy Clark.
Edward Sullivan, birthdate: January 1, 1924. ALCM76 (1924). Agent: R.P. Clark.
Vashti Thomas, birthdate: September 26, 1912. ALBF79 (1912).
Dorinda Driggers, birthdate: September 23, 1899. ALCF77 (1899). Agent: Roy Clark.
Margaret Hobson, birthdate, 1890s. ALCF77 (ca. 1890s). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mary Cox, birthdate: October 10, 1926. ALCF78 (1926). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mrs. Willie E. Kimbrough, birthdate, January 12, 1902. ALBF79 (1902). Agent: B. Loganbill.
Edith M. Murphy, birthdate: November 3, 1885. ALCF75 (1885). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Martin L. Horst, birthdate: June 25, 1897. ALCM75 (1897). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
"J," F, birthdate: January 9, 1899. ALBF77 (ca. 1899). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
"A" (name withheld), birthdate: August 27, 1900. ALBM77 (1900). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mattie Lancaster, birthdate: August 12, 1905. ALCF77 (1905). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
"B" (name withheld), birthdate: April 7, 1907. ALBM77 (1907). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Julian Rayford, birthdate: April 7, 1908. ALCM77 (1908). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Louise Wiggins, birthdate: August 4, 1913. ALCF77 (1913). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Nora Odom, birthdate: August 22, 1913. ALCF76 (1913). Agent, Dr. Joseph Mele.
Cedric Woodruff, birthdate: January 7, 1919. ALCM77 (1919). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Earlie Mae Hines, birthdate: April 4, 1926. ALBF77 (1926). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mary M. Blackburn, birthdate: April 17, 1927. ALCF79 (1927). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Blanche Williams, birthdate: February 4, 1932. ALBF79 (1932). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Oscar Mae Hines, birthdate: December 4, 1955. ALBF77 (1955). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Cassandra M. Saffo, birthdate: January 21, 1960. ALBF78 (1960). Agent, Dr. Joseph Mele.
Wash Hill, birthdate: 1890s. ALBM77 (ca. 1890). Agent: Roy Clark.
John Eva Johnson, birthdate: March 19, 1911. ALBF77 (1911). Agent: Roy Clark.
Clyde Annette Myrick, birthdate: September 13, 1916. ALCF77 (1916). Agent: Roy Clark.
Mamie Davis, birthdate: December 20. 1920. ALBF77 (1920). Agent: Roy Clark.
Marcelle G. Luigle, birthdate: February 12, 1923. ALCF (1923). Agent, Dr. Joseph Mele.
Annette Baxter, birthdate: June 3, 1927. ALCF77 (1927). Agent: Roy Clark.
John Hamilton Dorrill, birthdate: April 27, 1929. ALCM77 (1929). Agent: Roy Clark.
Vinie Sexton Thomas, birthdate: August 16, 1921. ALCF77 (1921). Agent: Roy Clark.
Sarah H. Bembow, birthdate: July 1, 1918. ALCF79 (1918). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Carolyn Watson, birthdate: February 26, 1930. ALCF77 (1930). Agent: Roy Clark.
Elvira Bledsoe Frith, birthdate: October 5, 1923. ALCF76 (1923). Agent: R.P. Clark.
Ethel Mitcham, birthdate: January 27, 1898. ALCF77 (1898). Agent: Roy Clark.
Mary Murray, birthdate: July 30, 1910. ALCF77 (1910). Agent: JoAnne Kierce.
Annie Myles, birthdate: December 11, 1922. ALBF77 (1922). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Lamona Lucas, birthdate: November 25, 1934. ALCF75 (1934). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Connie Lee High, birthdate: August 25, 1958. ARCF77 (1958). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Kathy Pitts, birthdate: August 16, 1956. ARCF76 (1956). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Michael Lee Qualls, birthdate: January 16, 1956. ARCM76 (1956). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Shirley Bell, birthdate: October 23, 1931. ARCF76 (1931). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Andrew S. Sharp, birthdate: August 1, 1902. ARCM (1902). Agent: D.T. Garnett.
Lillie E. McGrew, birthdate: March 10, 1898. ARCF76 (1898). Agent: Dr. T. Garnett.
Marie T. Lavendar, birthdate: June 26, 1910. ARCF76 (1910). Agent: D.T. Garnett.
Louis Mary Wilhite, birthdate: April 13, 1915. ARCF76 (1915). Agent: D.T. Garnett.
Sherrill Fagan, birthdate: January 11, 1942. ARCM76 (1942). Agent: Giles Zimmer.
Robert Zelma Whilhite, birthdate: 1909. ARCM76 (1909). Agent: D.T. Garnett.
Rip Lindsay, birthdate: July 10, 1918. ARCM76 (1918). Agent: Mary Ingalls.
William R. Bell, birthdate: December 7, 1925. ARCM75 (1925). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Helen B. Wilcoxon, birthdate: March 4, 1929. ARCF76 (1929). Agent: Harvey S. Spicer.
Ruth Wheeler, birthdate: June 20, 1888. COCF77 (1888). Agent: Mary Alice Minderhout.
Earl P. Miller, birthdate: March 7, 1925. COCM76 (1925). Agent: Giles Zimmer.
Jean Parker, birthdate: January 23, 1925. COCF79 (1925). Agent: Jean Luere.
Richard A. Greiser, birthdate: October 2, 1907. CTCM77 (1907). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Wheeler H. Silliman, birthdate: 1909. CTCM77 (1909). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Andrew J. Oros, birthdate: March 27, 1910. CTCM77 (1910). Agent: Daigle.
Aaron Abramson, birthdate: 1920. CTCM77 (1920). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Irene M. Andrejko, birthdate: December 23, 1929. CTCF77 (1929). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Frederick Haydon, birthdate: April 11, 1934. CTCM77 (1934). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Carol Adzima, birthdate: October 14, 1938. CTCF77 (1938). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Harold Dart, birthdate: July 4, 1907. CTCM77 (1907). Agent: Richard Daigle.
Clifford Gillette, birthdate: November 10, 1888. CTCM77 (1888). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Benjamin Silverman, birthdate: 1898. CTHM77 (1898).
William Snow, birthdate: 1905. CTCM77 (1905). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Karen Hayden, birthdate: January 16, 1941. CTCF77 (1941). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Anna Maria Hebert, birthdate: September 22, 1903. CTCF76 (1903). Agent: D. Parker.
Chris L. Sinagulia, birthdate: May 14, 1931. CTCF77 (1931). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Betty Rohr, birthdate: June 21, 1925. CTCF77 (1925). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Helen Manry, birthdate: June 26, 1958. FLCF78 (1958). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Barbara Jensen, birthdate: June 5, 1948. FLCF78 (1948). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mr. Max Lipsitz, birthdate: April 27, 1905. GAHM75 (1905). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mrs. Lillian Quinn, birthdate: April 26, 1898. ILCF79 (1898). Agent: Dr. B. Quinn.
Susan Pica, birthdate: April 4, 1960. INCF76 (1960). Agent: Sheri Sinmerman [tentative spelling].
Mark M. Kline, birthdate: March 21, 1907. INCM78 (1907). Agent: C. A. Shoupe.
Orvin Kaufman, birthdate: April 23, 1916. INCM77 (1916). Agent: Craig Hosterman.
Ray E. Shirley, birthdate: September 26, 1929. KSCM79 (1929).
Nellie Grady, birthdate: November 2, 1909. KYCF79 (1909). Agent: M. Myers.
Ms. Agnes S. Harralson, birthdate: September 21, 1921. KYCF79 (1896). Agent: Marshall Myers.
Annis Blair Franklin, birthdate: August 11, 1899. KYCF75 (1899). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Lowis LeBanc, birthdate: July 1, 1908. LACM77 (1908). Agent: Steven Cooper.
Odric Ortego. LA(FR)CM75. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Celia D. Mele, birthdate: December 23, 1911. LACF79 (1911). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Clement Durocher, birthdate: August 19, 1903. LA(Acad)CM77 (1903). Agent: Stephen Cooper.
Daniel Polk, birthdate: February 28, 1945. LACM78 (1945). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Katherine Vincent, birthdate: 1979. LACF79 (1917). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Dolly Gene S. Mele, birthdate: February 14, 1932. LACF78 (1932). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Linda Lear, birthdate: 1948. LACF79 (1948). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Lyddia Lear, birthdate: 1966. LACF79 (1966). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mrs. Elda Bergeron, birthdate: August 22, 1886. LACF76 (1886). Acadian (Cajun). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Richard Magee, birthdate: August 28, 1937. LACM77 (1937). Agent: H. Spicer.
Dolly B., birthdate: 1905. LACF76 (1985). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Harold A. Shafer, birthdate: May 16, 1987. MDCM76 (1887). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Leroy G. Messersmith, birthdate: October 18, 1888. MDCM76 (1888). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Louisa Hare, birthdate: March 2, 1894. MDCF77 (1894). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Frederick Goetz, birthdate: June 9, 1894. MDCM77 (1894). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded November 26, 1976, and January 27, 1977. Ethna P. Lulay, birthdate: January 9, 1895. MDCF76 (1895).
Recorded December 15, 1976, and January 22, 1977. Loretta A. Caster, birth date: March 11, 1898. MDCF76 (1898). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded November, 1976, and January 27, 1977. Margaret M. Pistel, birth date: October 8, 1900. MDCF76 (1900). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded November, 1976, and January 28, 1977. Margarite Fields, birthdate: September 26, 1904. MDCF76 (1904). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Grace Awalt, birthdate: 1905. MDCF76 (1905). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded November 27, 1976, and January 27, 1976. Florence P. Carr, birth date: October 16, 1906. MDCF76 (1906). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Johnny Council, birthdate: February 24, 1908. MDBM76 (1908). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Recorded December 12, 1976 and January 21, 1977. Zelda Schrum, birthdate: June 21, 1908. MDCF76 (1908). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded December 10, 1976 and January 21, 1977. Warren F. Brunner, birth date: May 2, 1910. MDCM76 (1910). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Virginia Gann, birthdate: 1910. MDCF79 (1910). Agent: Canuteson.
Recorded December 12, 1976 and January 27, 1977. Agnes Wilson, birthdate: December 10, 1911. MDCF76 (1911). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Frank Pelz, birthdate: January 1, 1912. MDCM77 (1912). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Amelia Tacka, birthdate: June 29, 1912. MDCF77 (1912). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded December 12, 1976 and January, 1977. Bernard D. Carmel, birthdate: February 11, 1914. MDCM76 (1914). Agent: Bill Wallace.
James Asimakes, birthdate: October 16, 1914. MDCM77 (1914). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded December 10, 1976 and January 21, 1977. Ruth L. Gibson, birthdate: October 5, 1915. MDCF76 (1915). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Israel Virginia, birthdate: August 25, 1916. MDCF76 (1916). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Catherine T. Winter, birthdate: February 6, 1916. MDCF76 (1916). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Recorded November, 1976 and January 28, 1977. Margaret P. Mace, birthdate: January 15, 1918. MDCF76 (1918). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Dorothy Kleinkamp, birthdate: April 21, 1928. MDCF79 (1928). Agent: Camieson.
Edwin J. Rosser, birthdate: 1900. MDCM76 (1900). Agent: John Bronson, Jr.
Frank Leja, birthdate: October 21, 1958. MACM80 (1958). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Frank Leja, birthdate: October 21, 1958. MACM80 (1958). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
William J. Harkins, birthdate: January 23, 1923. MACM79 (1923). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
David E. Harris, birthdate: November 29, 1962. MICM79 (1962). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Clara Minderhout, birthdate: February 25, 1890. MICF (1890). Agent: Alice Minderhout.
Deanna Stainbrook, birthdate: June 16, 1960. MNCF79 (1960). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
William Newman, birthdate: 1915. MNCM78 (1915). Agent: Michael Linn.
Jerome Thompson, birthdate: May 16, 1934. MNCM78 (1934). Agent: Michael Linn.
Ero H. Selonen, birthdate: July 1, 1942. Born, Tuusniemi, Finland. MNCM78 (1942). Agent: Michael Linn.
Harry Lightfeather, birthdate: 1925. MNIM77 (1925). Agent: Michael Linn.
Janice Kerns, birthdate: April 4, 1951. MNCF74 (1951). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Bonnie Beane, birthdate: June 10, 1957. MNCF79 (1957). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Doris Crager, birthdate: August 29, 1913. MSCF78 (1913). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
W.D. Folks, birthdate: November 26, 1921. MSCM78 (1921). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Ethel Leach, birthdate: March 22, 1895. MSCF78 (1895). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Lero Frazier, birthdate: January 12, 1915. MOCF79 (1915). Agent: Canuteson.
Helen Seat, birthdate: November 5, 1910. MOCF79 (1914). Agent: J. Canuteson.
William D. Haun, birthdate: January 29, 1906. MOCM79 (1906). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Shirley B. Reynolds, birthdate: July 9, 1921. MOCF79 (1921). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Earl Kirkland, birthdate: September 16, 1919. MOCM79 (1919). Agent: J. Canutesen.
Helen M. Sullivan, birthdate: June 1, 1912. MOCF79 (1912).
C. Aline Knight, birthdate: September 20, 1920. MOCF79 (1920).
Harley Lawson, birthdate: September 20, 1931. MOCM79 (1931). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Vera W. Kohling, birthdate: October 27, 1907. MOCF79 (1907).
Dee Guilboult, birthdate: November 30, 1895. MTCM76 (1895). Agent: Michael Linn.
Stella V. Guilbaut, birthdate: December 7, 1910. MTCF76 (1910). Agent: Michael Linn.
George Bonawitz, birthdate: September 22, 1935. Billings, Montana. MTCM76 (1935). Agent: Michael Linn.
John Alfred Linn, birthdate: November 18, 1933. Billings, Montana. MTCM76 (1933). Agent: Michael Linn.
Vernie E. Lynn, birthdate: November 17, 1906. Kalispell, Montana. MTCF76 (1906). Agent: Michael Linn.
William Pilson, birthdate: October 20, 1914. NYHM76 (1914). Agent: Andrea G. Osburne.
Michael Maretta, birthdate: September 17, 1916. "New Yorkese." NYCM76 (1916). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele (Bill Harris).
David A. Irish, birthdate: July 1, 1944. NYCM76 (1944). Agent: Dr. Parker, NC State.
Lisa Williams, birthdate: December 17, 1957. NYBF79 (1957). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Anne O'Hehir, birthdate: September 27, 1922. NYCF77 (1922). Agent: Dr. Patricia Jenkins.
Robin Talbot, birthdate: May 7, 1959. NYCF (1959). Agent: Sheri Sinmerman.
Mrs. Nina D'Ariano; Miss Susan D'Ariano (middle age and young adult). NYCF75. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Hugh F. Jones, birthdate: September 17, 1955. NCCM76 (1955). Agent: C.A. Parker, N.C. State University.
Louis S. Mason, birthdate: September 1, 1905. NCCF76 (1905). Agent: G.A. Parker, N.C. State University.
Mr. Pat Pleasants, birthdate: February 1, 1904. Wake County, N.C. (East Piedmont). NCCM76 (1904). Agent: C.A. Parker.
Mrs. Jaunita Alexander, birthdate: May 26, 1918. Wake County, N.C. NCCF76 (1918)x. Agent: C.A. Parker.
Sidney Gattis, birthdate: August 11, 1904. NCMB76 (1904). Agent: Dr. Parker, N.C. State University.
Lois Eva Cole, birthdate: September 12, 1896. NCBM76 (1896). Agent: Charles Parker.
Elizabeth Lewis, birthdate: November 19, 1923. NCBF76 (1923). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
John Thompson Craig, birthdate: May 22, 1920. NCCM76 (1920). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Edward Newton, birthdate: March 24, 1922. NCCM76 (1922). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Jessie H. Rodgers, birthdate: 1897. NCCF76 (1897). Agent: Dr. Helen Steer, East Carolina University.
Dorothy J. Kelly, birthdate: July 16, 1930. NCCF76 (1930). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Allen Jones, recorded March 17, 1976; Cory Lee Richardson, recorded April 30, 1976. birthdate: June 23, 1924. NCBM76 (1924). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker.
Sena O. Hurdt, birthdate: April 10, 1902. NCCF76 (1902). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Clara Price, birthdate: March 27, 1976. NCCF76 (1923). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Ella Mae Beaver, birthdate: January 12, 1914. NCCF76 (1914). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Lucille DuBryne, birthdate: March 25, 1924. NCCF75 (1924). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Edward Perry, birthdate: April 15, 1896. NCBM76 (1896). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreen Strong.
Hedrick F. Neville, birthdate: February 21, 1898. NCBM76 (1898). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreen Strong, N.C. State University.
Brenda Carpenter, birthdate: October 26, 1948. NCCF76 (1948). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Mrs. Hubert Robinson, birthdate: January 27, 1865?. NCBF76 (1865?). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreen Strong, N.C. State University.
David Grimes, birthdate: December 23, 1929. NCCM76 (1929). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Alice Riggs Proctor, birthdate: October 29, 1894. NCCF76 (1894). Agent: Helen Steer, East Carolina University.
Doctor Fuller Lowry, birthdate: January 8, 1881. NCIM76 (1881). Lumbee Indian. Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Timothy Strickland, birthdate: November 11, 1919. NCIM76 (1919). Lumbee Indian. Agent: Dr. Charles Parker.
Margaret G. Whitley, birthdate: May 18, 1912. NCCF76 (1912). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Ernest Choplin, birthdate: April 2, 1908. NCCM76 (1908). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Catherine Chesson, birthdate: August 29, 1918. NCCF76 (1918). Agent: Helen Steer, East Carolina University.
John A. Sebastian, birthdate: June 1, 1911. NCCM76 (1911). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Anna B. Gambill, birthdate: July 12, 1942. NCCF76 (1942). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Howard L. Guld, birthdate: April 16, 1930. NCCM76 (1930). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Marzzlar Yates, birthdate: November 25, 1902. NCBF76 (1902). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Janet Richardson, birthdate: October 29, 1934. OHCF79 (1932). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Nancy Uhlig, birthdate: March 13, 1943. OHCF78 (1943). OHCF78 (1943). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Marian G. Burtscher, birthdate: March 15, 1913. OHCF78 (1913). Woodville, Ohio. Agent: Kenneth Robb.
Frieda Faher, birthdate: July 15, 1897. OHCF79 (1897). Agent: G. Evans.
Lola Miller, birthdate: July 1, 1911. OHCF79 (1911). Agent: G. Evans.
Robert Kalston, birthdate: April 3, 1916. PACM79 (1916). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Mary K. Jones, birthdate: June 19, 1935. PACF79 (1935). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Nellie E. Gustaveson, birthdate: July 2, 1886. PACF77 (1886). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Donald F. Hopkins, Sr., birthdate: October 2, 1890. PACM77 (1890). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Elizabeth B. Thompson, birthdate: July 21, 1896. PACF77 (1896). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Harriet N. Humphries, birthdate: November 5, 1899. PACF77 (1899). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Warrenita W. Leech, birthdate: January 15, 1904. PACF77 (1904). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Frank J. Strassner, Jr., birthdate: April 16, 1908. PACM77 (1908). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Clyde M. Wilson, birthdate: January 8, 1934. PABM80 (1934).
Theodore Williams, birthdate: July 14, 1924. PACM78 (1924). Agent: Helene Fuller.
Louis J. Perotti, birthdate: November 11, 1903. PACM78 (1903). Agent: Mary Alice Minderhout.
Lillian Luedecke, birthdate: June 15, 1908. PACF78 (1908). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Joan Massimini birthdate: August 19, 1930. PACF78 (1930). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Joan Massimini birthdate: August 19, 1930. PACF78 (1930). Agent: Carolyn Keefe.
Mrs. Cora Hasson, birthdate: October 28, 1903. PACF78 (1903). Agent: Mary Alice Minderhout.
Elizabeth Brunner, birthdate: July 19, 1916. PAHF76 (1916). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Elizabeth Brunner, birthdate: July 19, 1916. PAHF76 (1916). Agent: Bill Wallace.
Michael Napolitano, birthdate: 1956. RICM77 (1956). Agent: Elaine Chaika.
Bryan Sullivan, birthdate: March 1, 1959. RICM80 (1959).
Copy 2. Bryan Sullivan, birthdate: March 1, 1959. RICM80 (1959).
Henry Dexter, birthdate: October 24, 1898. RICM77 (1898). Agent: Elaine A. Chaika.
Jerord Muller, birthdate: October 7, 1941. RICM77 (1941). Agent: Elaine A. Chaika.
George Brown, birthdate: September 6, 1929. SCBM76 (1929). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Mary Newkirk, birthdate: February 20, 1924. SCCF79 (1924). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Barbara Crume Liggins, birthdate: April 23, 1934. SCCF76 (1934). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker. Director: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Rebecca Mabrey, birthdate: April 3, 1976. SCBF76 (1896). Agent: Laura Rowan, Wake Forest University.
Emma Mitchell, birthdate: September 14, 1913. SDCF78 (1913). Agent: Michael Linn.
Howard E. Mitchell, birthdate: October 10, 1928. SDCM76 (1928). Redfield, South Dakota. Agent: Michael Linn.
Leone Yvonne Mitchell, birthdate: January 14, 1934. SDCF76 (1934). Ipswitch, South Dakota. Agent: Michael Linn.
Hattie Mai Bane, birthdate: January 27, 1906. TNCF77 (1906). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Lula Watson, birthdate: April 22, 1910. TNCF79 (1910). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Ora J. Clements, birthdate: October 31, 1905. TNCF77 (1905). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Ms. Opal Christine Cowan Allen, birthdate: February 18, 1927. TNCF79 (1927). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Anna Lewis Davis Hassler, birthdate: July 2, 1892. TNCF78 (1892). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Ora Mae Schramm, birthdate: December 2, 1916. TNCF78 (1916). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Carl Eugene Pate, birthdate: December 7, 1920. TNCM77 (1920). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Nora S.K. Hart, birthdate: December 28, 1906. TNCF76 (1906). Agent: G. Allen Yeomans.
Ora Lee Carter, birthdate: July 25, 1912. TNCF77 (1912). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Mrs. Charles Houston, birthdate: September 1, 1916. TNCF78 (1916). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Betty C. Morrison, birthdate: July 3, 1926. TNCF76 (1926). Agent: Jerry Henerson, Tennesee Tech University.
Richard A. Bingham, birthdate: March 25, 1916. TNCM78 (1916). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Helen Jones, birthdate: February 5, 1917. TNCF78 (1917). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Lucy Gilpatrick, birthdate: May 29, 1977. TNCF77 (1905). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Addie L. Brewington, birthdate: October 6, 1902. TNCF78 (1902). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
James Ladd, birthdate: May 21, 1906. TNCM77 (1906). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Altha May Boze, birthdate: July 31, 1899. TNCF77 (1899). Agent: Jerry Henderson
Sheree Scruggs, birthdate: December 5, 1956. TNCF77 (1956). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Mary L. Black, birthdate: October 24, 1910. TNCF78 (1910). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Livie Alonzo Taylor, birthdate: June 14, 1895. TNCM76 (1895). Agent: Jerry Henderson, Tennessee Tech University.
Josephine S. Bell, birthdate: April 28, 1918. TNCF76 (1918). Agent: Jerry Henderson, Tennessee Tech University.
Johnny Watson, birthdate: January 8, 1946. TNCM76 (1946). McMinnville, Tennessee. Agent: Herry Henderson.
Luther Lowery, birthdate: March 9, 1893. TNCM78 (1893). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Lillian Boone Ridley, birthdate: 1921. TNCF77 (1921). Agent: Jerry Henderson.
Josephine Shirey, birthdate: December 9, 1933. TXCF79 (1933). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Eva Jo Little, birthdate: February 3, 1910. TXCF77 (1910). Agent: Arney Strickland.
Eva G. Fuller, birthdate: September 11, 1892. TXCF76 (1892). Agent: Claude C. Fuller, Northeast La. University. Director: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Mrs. Nora Laughlin, birthdate: August 7, 1915. VACF75 (1915). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Susan Scott, birthdate: October 2, 1956. VACF78 (1956). Lynchburg, Virginia. Agent: Bruce Southard.
Geneva A. Hamilton, birthdate: June 19, 1911. VABF76 (1911). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreeen Strong, N.C. State University.
Attaway E. Lancaster, birthdate: September 3, 1899. VACF76 (1899). Agent: G. Allen Yeomans.
Betty Ruth King, birthdate: July 24, 1908. VACF78 (1908). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Joanne Dawson, birthdate: October 2, 1940. VACF75 (1940). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Edward S. Bowis, birthdate: 1925. VACM76 (1925). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Janet Pridgen, birthdate: February 14, 1955. VACF77 (1955). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Ellen Pridgen, birthdate: August 7, 1957. VACF77 (1957). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Sarah V. Mayo, birthdate: April 23, 1886. VABF76 (1886). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Elsie Ingram, birthdate: March 20, 1888. VACF76 (1888). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Walter Galeski, birthdate: June 26, 1895. VACM78 (1895). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Elizabeth Duke, birthdate: April 2, 1935. VACF76 (1935). Agent: Michael Linn, Virginia Commonwealth University.
Jesse Gayle, birthdate: 1897. VABM76 (1897). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Mark Benton, birthdate: April 27, 1956. VACM78 (1956). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Sherry Williams, birthdate: December 25, 1956. VACF77 (1956). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Mattie Pritchett, birthdate: February [year unknown]. VABF76 (year unknown). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreen Strong, N.C. State University.
John Ross Parks, birthdate: 1883. VACM76 (1883). Agent: Nancy Levy.
Peter Sneed Crockett, birthdate: 1901. VACM76 (1901). Agent: Nancy Levy.
John M. Jennings, birthdate: October 22, 1916. VACM76 (1916). Agent: Nancy Levy, University of Richmond.
Elizabeth Henderson, birthdate: August 8, 1902. VACF78 (1902). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Edward Edloe, birthdate: November 18, 1905. VABM77 (1905). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Vernon Geddy, birthdate: April 12, 1926. VACM78 (1926). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Gardiner Brooks, birthdate: October 2, 1929. VACM77 (1929). Agent: Bruce Southard.
Margery Woodcock, birthdate: January 29, 1896. WACF80 (1896).
Helen Peterson, birthdate: April 22, 1898. WACF80 (1898).
Martha Lockhardt, birthdate: October 16, 1956. WVCF80 (1956).
"Informant A," birthdate: July 12, 1908. WVCF79 (1908). Agent: Martha Howard.
Thelma Williams, birthdate: January 15, 1928. WVBF76 (1928). Agent: Allen Williams, Grambling State University.
Della H. Cooke, birthdate: December 17, 1914. WVCF76 (1914). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker by Noreen Strong, N.C. State University.
Douglas L. Tench, birthdate: July 23, 1942. WVBM80 (1942).
Emma R. Roberts, birthdate: December 23, 1917. WVCF80 (1917).
B'rer, birthdate: January 18, 1913. WVCF79 (1913). Agent: Martha Howard.
Informant "C," birthdate: June 5, 1953. WVCM79 (1953). Agent: Martha Howard.
Informant "D," birthdate: June 6, 1953. WVCM79 (1953). Agent: Martha Howard.
Horace Clifford, birthdate: August 13, 1899. WICM (1899). Born: New London, Wisconsin. Agent: Vincent A. Lepresti.
Carol Galazen, birthdate: December 25, 1932. WICF78 (1932). Agent: Michael Linn.
Doris Schamberg, birthdate: 1908. WICF81 (1908). Agent: Helen V. Steer.
Catherine Metsker, birthdate: 1958. WYCF81 (1958).
Anthea Parvis-Smith, birthdate: July 30, 1944. F-Australia-76 (1944). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Julia Virtue, birthdate: August 12, 1955. F-Australia-CF80 (1955).
Recorded December 14, 1976 and January 9, 1977. Rochelle M. Blount, birth date: May 22, 1962. F-Canal Zone (US)CF76 (1962). Agent: Sheri Sinmerman.
birthdate: October 15, 1949. F-China MM77 (1949). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Jeremy Hayes, birthdate: January 5, 1954. F-Eng-CM77 (1954). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Jack Alldred, birthdate: October 22, 1930. F-Eng-CM76 (193). Agent: Helen Steer.
Rosalind Brain, birthdate: September 7, 1926. F-Eng-CF76 (1926). Agent: Helen Steer.
David Evans, birthdate: September 28, 1947. F-Eng (Wales)-CM76 (1947). Agent: Helen Steer.
Michael Crow, birthdate: 1938. F-Eng-CF76 (1938). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Nadine Chevalier, birthdate: August 28, 1954. F-French-CF75 (1954).
Bernard Boutin. Fr-Am-CM75 Young adult. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Nicole Gardere, birthdate: September 9, 1953. Fr-Am-CF76 (1953). Dax, France. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Victorino Salter, birthdate: November 19, 1935. Fr-Am-CF75 (1935). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Charles Marsan, birthdate: February 13, 1952. Fr-CM75 (1952). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Recorded on December 15, 1976 and January 12, 1977. Margot K. Barrow, birth date: May 30, 1939. F-Gr-CF76 (1939). Agent: Sheri Sinmerman.
Erika T. Geiger, birthdate: January 1, 1938. F-Ger-76 (1938). Agent: Sheri Sinmerman.
Herman E. Husch, birthdate: March 15, 1911. F-Ger-HM76 (1911). Agent: Claudia C. Fulks.
Two informants, one born in 1928, one born in 1937. F-Haiti-BM75 (1937) (1928). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Cornelius Stupel, birthdate: August 22, 1953. F-Hol-CM75 (1953).
Len Koolen, birthdate: 1955. F-Holland-CM78 (1955). Agent: Helen Steer.
Pornal Shalendra, birthdate: 1954. F-India-CM78 (1954). Agent: Helene Fuller.
Helen P. McCloy, birthdate: November 2, 1903. F-Ire-CF76 (1903). Agent: Dr. Charles Parker, N.C. State University.
Helen Kelly, birthdate: 1919. F-Ire-CF78 (1919). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Sister Hargaret Crowley, birthdate: August 26, 1934. F-Ire-CF76 (1934). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Eamon Duignan. F-Irish-CM75 Young adult priest. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Fr. Peter Dalton, birthdate: June 17, 1947. F-Irish-CM76 (1947). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Carlo DeMontis, birthdate: March 16, 1936. F-Italian American-CM75 (1936). Italian (Sardinia). Another recorded date written on cassette is July 18, 1975.
Adelina Pittaccio, birthdate: 1913. F-It-CF76 (1913). Agent: Helen Steer.
Father Serafino Falvo. F-It-CM75. Middle aged priest. Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Shuziko Sutherland, birthdate: September 22, 1930. F-Japan-MF78 (1930). Born: Tokyo, Japan. Agent: Harry W. Harris, Jr.
Estela Lopen, birthdate: March 21, 1935. F-Mex-CF78 (1935). Agent: Harry W. Harris, Jr.
Edward Nnadi, birthdate: June 26, 1956. F-Nigeria-BM77 (1956). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Andy Adiele, birthdate: 1953. F-Nigeria-BM79 (1953). Agent: Helen V. Steer.
Zelpha Umali, birthdate: March 19, 1954. F-Philippines-CF79 (1943). Agent: J. Canuteson.
Recorded in Puerto Rico. Name unknown, birthdate: December 25, 1935. F-Puerto Rico-CM75 (1935). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Tibor Steinberger, birthdate: September 4, 1960. F-Rom-CM78 (1960). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Alan Drummond, birthdate: 1950. F-Scotland-CM77 (1950). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Nguyen Quang, birthdate: March 9, 1954. F-S.V.-CM79 (1954). Agent: Helene Fuller.
Manuel Ruiz Mateos, birthdate: September 15, 1948. Spain-CM75 (1948). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Lena Hom-Rutili, birthdate: November 5, 1949. F-Sweden-CF79 (1949). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Dusko Bruer, birthdate: June 27, 1952. F-Yugo-CM75 (1952). Agent: Dr. Joseph Mele.
Collection of concert and workshop recordings of events at the National Folk Festivals, Lowell Folk Festivals, and other festivals, tours, and concerts sponsored by the National Council for the Traditional Arts (NCTA), formerly the National Folk Festival Association founded in 1934. Features performances of ballads, blues, bluegrass, contra dance music, country music, cowboy songs, fiddle tunes, folk music, gospel music, hymns, old-time music, singer songwriters, steel band music, storytelling, Western swing, and more; with numerous performers playing music from African, African American, American Indian, Cajun, Canadian, Caribbean, Eastern European, Hawaiian, Irish, Latin American, Mexican, Scottish, Sea Islands, Sicilian, Ukrainian, and many other traditions from throughout the United States and from around the world. Manuscripts include documentation from the containers of the original sound recordings.
The collection includes a database with track-level information, performers associated with each track, musical styles, identifiers, and technical metadata about the recordings. Recording artists and music categories are listed in the Primary Recording Artists and Genres lists in this finding aid. Complete lists of performers can be found in the Appendix: Full List of Recording Artists. Please contact the Folklife Reading Room with requests.
Documentation from events in which the National Council for Traditional Arts was either the organizer or participant. Includes recordings of festival performances, musical tours, concerts, jam sessions, parties, radio broadcasts, oral history interviews, and NEA Heritage Fellowship award ceremonies. Also includes log sheets for many performances.
Recordings from musical events that NCTA organized, such as folk festivals, musical tours, concert series, and concerts.
Recordings related to the Masters of the Steel String Guitar tour.
Recordings from Taipei, Taiwan, Bangkok, Thailand, Jakarta, Indonesia, Manila, Philippines, and Seoul, Korea. Tapes labeled as American Folklife Festival, but could be recordings from another festival (American Folk Festival began in 2002).
Recordings from the American Folk Festival in Bangor, Maine.
Recordings from the American Folk Festival in Bangor, Maine.
Recordings from the American Folk Festival in Bangor, Maine.
Tour in Easton, Pennsylvania; New Brunswick, New Jersey; and Blue Bell, Pennsylvania.
Boarding House Park Stage, Lowell, Massachusettes. Perhaps this is part of the Lowell Folk Festival.
This second disc is labeled Balladcatchers (first disc is labelled Gospel Ship) and is hosted by Joe Wilson with Sheila Kay Adams, Almeda Riddle, Scotty and Patsy West, Joe Heaney, Dee and Delta Hicks, Johnnie Ray Hicks, Larry Older, Jimmy Olla Belle Reed, & Clint Howard -- part of six compact discs that were broadcast on WDUQ-FM -- all were originally recorded at National Folk Festivals and include narration by Joe Wilson.
July 2, 1994, recording, Galax, Virginia. June 28, 1994, recording location unknown, possibly Galax, Virginia.
Original DAT labeled: "Bangor - 11/7/01 - Cherish the Ladies - Bangor, Maine - 11-7-01.
Washington, D.C. Original tape labeled: Folk Festival USA-NPR- National Folk Festival 1974.
Performances in upsate New York and Maryland showcasing New York klezmer music and traditional New Orleans jazz.
Galax, Virginia. Original tape labeled, "2nd Annual Blue Ridge Mountain Homecoming -- 12/16/00 -- 7:30 PM -- Rex Theater -- Galax, VA -- Wayne Henderson and Friends."
Concert series in Galax, Virginia.
Concert series in Galax and Cumberland Knob, Virginia.
Concerts in Cumberland Knob, Virginia.
Concert in Bedford, Virginia.
El Paso, Texas.
El Paso, Texas.
Hosted by Joe Wilson with the Balfa Brothers, Sadie Courville & Dennis McGee, Walter Mouton and the Scott Playboys, and Beausoleil. From the collection of the NCTA Archives and were broadcast on WDUQ-FM, all were originally recorded at National Folk Festivals and include narration by Joe Wilson.
Concerts presented by various California universities.
Concert at Carter Barron Amphitheater, Washington, D.C.
Show hosted by Joe Wilson with various performers, and broadcast on WDUQ-FM Pittsburgh.
Show hosted by Joe Wilson with various performers, and broadcast on WDUQ-FM Pittsburgh.
Show hosted by Joe Wilson with various performers, and broadcast on WDUQ-FM Pittsburgh.
Bluegrass, country and gospel music were featured in this USIA Arts America tour in various cities in Portugal, Turkey, Cyprus, and Greece.
Tour organized for USIA Arts America presented old-time string band and zydeco music in various cities in Kenya, Republic of Seychelles, Republic of Mauritius, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Cameroon, Gabon, Ivory Coast, and Liberia.
USIA Arts America, tour featuring western swing and bluegrass in various cities in Bahrain, Tunisia, United Arab Emorates, Yemen, and Morocco.
Eight working cowboys from Louisiana to Hawaii presented their brand of music, stories, and poetry to audiences on tours in the West. 
Concert in Washington, D.C.
Two tours of traditional Yiddish theater, klezmer music, cantorial and folk songs that traveled to Jewish community centers and Hebrew homes for the aging across the United States.
Festival in Washington, D.C.
An exploration of the African-folk origins of American popular music and dance through a juxtaposition of traditions from West Africa and the Georgia Sea Islands with Piedmont blues and modern tap in three national tours.
La Jolla, California. Interviews associated with the Echoes of Africa tours.
 A tour of old-time music, stories, and dance of the Ozark region featuring outstanding performers from Arkansas, Missouri and Kansas.
Concert series in downtown Silver Spring on June 13, 1998.
Recording of a festival in St. Louis that could be part of the National Folk Festival.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
Recordings of NCTA tour of French music.
Two national tours and six-week USIA Arts America tour of East Asia including native American music, song and dance of the Zuni, the Lakota, and the Yup'ik.
Fundraiser concert for Senator Tom Daschle.
Recordings from the National Folk Festival that were broadcast on WDUQ-FM.
Tours of Irish-American music and dance that visited Irish-American communities throughout the U.S.
Recordings likely put together to raise money for what was to become the Masters of the Steel String Guitar Tour.
USIA Arts America tour to the Bahamas and Jamaica, including blues and zydeco musicians, mimes, street dancers and others.
Tour of Irish music and dance presented in the Western U.S.
National tours of African-American blues, R&B, gospel and juba dance.
Original cassette labeled: "Side 1 Intro of Orchestra-Followed by 1. continuation of reamkev, 2. Candle-Dance."
Musical performance at the Turning Point in Piermont, New York.
Concert at Lisner Auditorium at George Washington University.
Recordings from various stages at the 1st Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 2nd Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 3rd Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 4th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 5th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 6th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 7th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 8th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 9th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 10th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 11th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 12th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 13th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 14th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 15th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 16th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 17th Lowell Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 18th Lowell Folk Festival.
Concert at Mammoth Cave National Park in Kentucky.
Eastern United States tour that sampled the musical traditions from the islands of the Caribbean, including Puerto Rican jíbaro, Haitian twoubadou, and Trinidadian calypso.
Eastern United States tour that presented four distinctive regional styles of Mexican music and dance.
Two national tours in which seven master banjoists offered a sampling of the different styles of playing the instrument.
Tour of Irish, Cape Breton, bluegrass, jazz, blues, and Cajun and Western longbow fiddle styles. The tours occurred in 1988, 1989, 1994, and 1995.
Tours of blues, Appalachian flat-picking, Hawaiian slack key, dobro, jazz, and rockabilly guitar styles. The four tours occurred in 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1999.
Tours of blues, Appalachian flat-picking, Hawaiian slack key, dobro, jazz, and rockabilly guitar styles. The four tours occurred in 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1999.
Tours of blues, Appalachian flat-picking, Hawaiian slack key, dobro, jazz, and rockabilly guitar styles. The four tours occurred in 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1999.
Tours of blues, Appalachian flat-picking, Hawaiian slack key, dobro, jazz, and rockabilly guitar styles. The four tours occurred in 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1999.
Tours of blues, Appalachian flat-picking, Hawaiian slack key, dobro, jazz, and rockabilly guitar styles. The four tours occurred in 1990, 1991, 1993, and 1999.
Tour in Eastern US that examined how regional folk musics in and around Memphis influenced the creation of new forms of music, such as early rockabilly and rock and roll, in the early 1950s.
Two national tours which showcased the music of Southwest Virginia through bluegrass, mountain gospel, old-time and flatfoot dance.
Recordings from various stages at the 33rd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 34th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 35th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 36th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 37th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 38th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 39th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 40th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 41st National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 42nd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 43rd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 44th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 45th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 46th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 47th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 48th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 49th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 50th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 51st National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 52nd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 53rd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 54th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 55th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 56th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 57th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 58th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 59th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 60th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 61st National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 62nd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 63rd National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 64th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 65th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 66th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 67th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 68th National Folk Festival.
Recordings from various stages at the 69th National Folk Festival.
Recording from the concert related to the National Heritage Fellowship Awards.
Recordings from the 1998 independence day concert, as well as telephone interviews between Nick Spitzer and musical performers.
Recordings from the 1999 Independence Day concert.
Recording to appear on broadcast of All Things Considered #810918.
Conference related to preserving and utilizing folk heritage. This tape contains a recording of various people delivering papers, as well as discussion.
Recordings from the Ocmulgee Indian Celebration at the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park in Macon, Georgia.
Tour of the Southwest and West where working cowboys presented their music, stories, and poetry.
Recordings of the Perfume River Ensemble, an eleven-member ensemble from Huê, Vietnam, from a two-week national tour performing their music outside of Vietnam for the first time.
Part of a series produced in conjunction with Lisner Auditorium.
Recordings from national tour of regional styles of Mexican music and dance, including marimba, conjunto, mariachi and Veracruz jarocho, and music of the Hispanic Southwest.
Recordings from national tour of regional styles of Mexican music and dance, including marimba, conjunto, mariachi and Veracruz jarocho, and music of the Hispanic Southwest.
Recordings from national tour of regional styles of Mexican music and dance, including marimba, conjunto, mariachi and Veracruz jarocho, and music of the Hispanic Southwest.
An African American heritage tour of blues, gospel, buckdancing, and storytelling, which toured the Southeast.
Recordings from the Silver Spring Ethnic Heritage Festival.
Recordings from the Silver Spring International Festival.
Originally recorded at National Folk Festivals and broadcast on WDUQ-FM. Hosted by Joe Wilson with Moses Williams, Rabbit Muse, J.C. Burris, Peg Leg Sam Jackson, and Harmonica Frank Floyd.
Recordings from Tamburitzan Days festival in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.
Tour from Seattle to Chicago of Swedish American theater, music, and dance traditions.
Live recordings with Joe Wilson hosting competition. Original tape labeled: "Mountain City, Tennessee Fiddlers Convention."
Tour of Mid-Atlantic and New England states featuring a seven-voice women's vocal ensemble from the far north of the Russian Republic, a Tuvan throat singer, a Georgian male choir, and shepherd's horn duo from central Russia.
Recordings from the 20th Washington Irish Music Festival.
Recordings from the 21st Washington Irish Music Festival.
Recordings from the 22nd Washington Irish Music Festival.
Recordings from the 23rd Washington Irish Music Festival.
Recordings from the 24th Washington Irish Music Festival.
Studio recordings, radio broadcasts, oral history interviews, rehearsals, and field recordings.
Open Mic interview and questions from the audience on National Folk Festival with Director Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott and Marshall Cleaver.
Live radio broadcast at the Sylvan Theater on the Washington Monument grounds, Washington, D.C.
DAT labeled "America's Master Storytellers, Geneva, New York, Smith Opera House."
Original tape labeled: "Audition Tape -- National Folk Festival from D.K. Wilgus. UCLA Folk Festival, Los Angeles, California.
House party in Oxon Hill, Maryland.
Originally recorded at the National Folk Festival and then broadcast on WDUQ-FM.
Radio spots and recordings from the Cowboy Tour. Location/radio station unknown.
Fundraiser concert for Congressman David Obey.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances. "Interesting interview with the daughter of G.B. Grayson conducted by Joe Wilson and Ken Irwin."
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances. Recorded by Art Rosenbaum.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances. National Folk Festival Association (NFFA) benefit concert, Reston, Virginia.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances. Home recording sessions for what was to become the documentary film, "Blues House Party," produced by Eleanor Ellis.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances. Radio interview promoting the Vandalia Festival.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
Field recordings collected by David A. Brose, likely sent to NCTA as demos for possible bookings by the NCTA.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
NCTA archival recordings of musical performances.
Radio program.
Radio program.
Radio program.
Radio program.
Likely a broadcast supporting the 1979 Green Fields of America tour.
Unidentified NCTA archival recording.
Unidentified NCTA archival recording.
Original cassette labeled, "Interview with Deraldo Ferreira 1/92 - Afro-Brazilian capoeira." Interview is incomplete.
Original cassette labeled, "Interview with Henry Joseph, 2/13, Haitian group Konbit."
Interview with Joe Wilson and his mother, Josephine Sutherland Wilson, conducted in Kensinton, Maryland, 12/25/77.
Original cassette labeled "Int[erview] with Maurice Peltier, fiddle, and Jerry Proussard, guitar with harmonica, with Colette Fournier."
Original cassette labeled, "Interview with Norberto Taveres in New Bedford/Johnny Pina in Pawtucket."
Original cassette labeled, "Interview with Norberto Taveres in New Bedford/Johnny Pina in Pawtucket."
WLCY "Open Mic" interview and questions from the audience on National Folk Festival with Director Miss Sarah Gertrude Knott and Marshall Cleaver.
Original cassette labeled, "Interview with Zhentian Zhang #1." Translator is Nancy Young.
Irish tour content.
WDUQ-FM (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) radio show hosted by Joe Wilson with Joe Derrane, Peter Barnes, Brendan Mulvihill and Donna Long, Seamus Egan and Solás.
Rehearsal recorded by Joe Wilson at the offices of the National Council for the Traditional Arts with John Cephas (guitar and vocals) and Phil Wiggins (harmonica and vocals).
Recordings made by Art Rosenbaum, perhaps as a promotional tool for a booking for the National Folk Festival.
From original cassette tape: "music and interview Joe Pommerleau and Simon St. Pierre. Smyrna Mills, Maine. Session at Joe's [Wilson]"
"This tape is drawn from various National Folk Festivals."
Recordings from the National Folk Festival Conference.
"Original cassette labeled 'Blue Ridge Mountain Band, National Folklife Society, University of Chicago, Jan 24/25, 1986. Artists and song selection also included in original notes.'"
Recordings of the award ceremony for the National Heritage Fellowship, a lifetime honor presented to master folk and traditional artists by the National Endowment for the Arts.
Recordings from the banquet for the National Heritage Fellowship Awards.
Recording of a rehearsal for the National Heritage Awards show.
Recording originally recorded at National Folk Festivals and includes narration by Joe Wilson. Recordings were broadcast on WDUQ-FM.
Rehearsal for early Merlefest.
"This is a promo tape with John Cephas and Phil Wiggins advertising the Saturday Night Sunday Morning tour."
Library of Congress recordings of Senator Robert Byrd at the Library of Congress and at Senator Byrd's home. Recorded by Alan Jabbour and Carl Fleischhauer. Features Senator Byrd playing fiddle, singing, and discussing his background and how he learned a song and/or why it was important to him.
From original DAT: "TASA Dinner, Willard Hotel, Oct 17, 1998, House of Hope, John Jackson, Wayne Henderson Band, This was recorded at a private party/good music top by Jackson."
Part of a series of recordings from the National Folk Festival held in Lowell, Massachusetts, 1987-1989, and 1999. The material was compiled Joe Wilson and Tony Ziselberger and re-recorded by Pete Reiniger.
Part of a series of recordings from the National Folk Festival held in Lowell, Massachusetts, 1987-1989, and 1999. The material was compiled Joe Wilson and Tony Ziselberger and re-recorded by Pete Reiniger.
Part of a series of recordings from the National Folk Festival held in Lowell, Massachusetts, 1987-1989, and 1999. The material was compiled Joe Wilson and Tony Ziselberger and re-recorded by Pete Reiniger.
Part of a series of recordings from the National Folk Festival held in Lowell, Massachusetts, 1987-1989, and 1999. The material was compiled Joe Wilson and Tony Ziselberger and re-recorded by Pete Reiniger.
Wayne Henderson studio materials.
Original cassette labeled "Irish Tradition with Mick Maloney, Knoxville World's Fair July 7, 1982."
Includes paper materials removed from tape boxes, inventories, lists of artists, and container documentation from originl sound recording formats. Complements log sheets from events in Series 1. Folders 1-3 and 5-10 have been placed in the collection's case file.
Files delivered by NCTA to AFC.
Files delivered by NCTA to AFC.
Files delivered by NCTA to AFC.
Files delivered by NCTA to AFC.
Files delivered by NCTA to AFC.
Container documentation from original sound recording formats.
List from the NCTA database includes additional performers accompanying the performers in the Primary Recording Artists list.
List of main recording artists who performed for each event. The names are extracted from the "Recording Artists" field of the NCTA database. See Access and Restrictions section for more information about the NCTA database. The list is provided to show the range of performers represented in the collection. See Appendix: Full List of Recording Artists for additional performers accompanying the performers in this list.
List of styles and genres of music, dance, storytelling, and crafts assigned to each performer in the collection. The terms are extracted from the "Music Categories" field of the NCTA database. The list is provided to show the types of classification that NCTA's events covered. Nearly every recording and track has at least one of these terms applied to it. See Access and Restrictions section for more information about the NCTA database.
Collection of sound recordings of interviews, readings by authors, lectures and speeches, and radio broadcasts with songs and music, recorded and compiled by Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber for the Sing Out! radio program on WBAI-FM, New York City; and for other radio shows and documentation of other music and events from 1952-1978. Includes interviews with Vietnam War protesters, draft resisters, and topical songs written about the Vietnam War; many songs about other events of the 1960s and 1970s, including the African American civil rights movement; Native American survival movement; the women's rights and gay rights movements. The collection includes some tapes submitted by performers or listeners of Barbara Dane's shows, some with accompanying letters. Includes interview and songs performed by Catalan poet and composer, Raimon; Philippine songs; Cambodian songs; sound recordings of the Poor People's March on Washington, 1968; folk festivals and other recordings.
Contains the collection inventory, tape concordance, original tape inventory, and list of Sing Out radio programs with dates and guests.
Tape box decorated by artwork. See Terry Lipscomb, Texas sound recording, AFC 1980/001: SR151 for related materials.
Katherine Ann Porter reads, Pale Horse, Pale Rider, from Caedmon recording made in NYC.
Julian Lee Rayford performs street cries, Mike Fink songs, Mike Fink's Bragg Paul Bunyan chant, the Buttermilk Pipeline, Davy Crockett chant, story from Crockett Almanac, and Colonel Crockett's Morning Hunt.
The Weavers interview themselves about their origins and discuss cuts from their Carnegie Hall Concert record. The interview was done for Barbara Dane's KPFA program.
List of songs on box.
Montgomery made this tape for Barbara Dane in Chicago.
Willie Dixon, Chicago blues writer and singer, sings the blues and other things accompanied by Urreal "Little Brother" Montgomery.
Interview with Mahalia Jackson and Barbara Dane, by Ed Cray on his program, From Here to Sunday in Los Angeles at KPFK. Interview with Memphis Slim, February 27, 1960 and July 31, 1959.
Big Joe Williams at Ash Grove, Los Angeles music club. He also talks about his life and work.
Interview on reels 1-2.
Barbara Dane interviews Big Miller, blues singer from Kansas City.
SR015: Barbara Dane interviews Mance Lipscomb about his 55 years of sharecropping in Navasota, Texas, 1961.
SR016: Barbara Dane interviews Mance Lipscomb about his life and work in Navasota, Texas, 1961.
SR017: Barbara Dane interviews Mance Lipscomb for a radio show, includes songs, 1961.
Barbara Dane interviews Fred McDowell, Mississippi blues singer, early 1960s.
Barbara Dane interviews Fred McDowell, Mississippi blues singer, early 1960s.
List of songs on tape box.
List of songs on tape box.
List of songs on tape box.
Pete Seeger singing some topical songs from 1963-1964. List of songs in tape box.
Tape includes children's ring games and chants. The balance of tape is with Estella Hana Yancey.
List of songs on tape box.
List of songs on tape box.
List of songs on tape box.
List of songs on tape box.
Sing-Out with Barbara Dane, subject of the program is Woody Guthrie, April 14, 1965, 63 min. Pancake reel.
Sing-Out with Barbara Dane and Manse Lipscomp, April 15, 1965, 59:30 min. Pancake reel.
Pancake reel.
Sing-Out with Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber with guest, Brownie McGhee, 60 min.
Sing-Out with Dane and Harry Smith (editor of Folkway's famous Smith Anthology), April 27, 1965, 57:30 min. Pancake reel.
New releases (folk) - No. 1, May 13, 1965, 60 min. Pancake reel.
Barbara Dane hosts Sing-Out No. 2, first broadcast in Sing-Out series called "Is Bob Dylan really John Lennon?" (music from selected records), May 25, 1965, 60 min.
Interview by Dane with Lonnie Johnson, May 25, 1965, WBAI-NY, part 1 of 2.
First broadcast in the series Sing-Out with Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber called "ls Bob Dylan really John Lennon?" May 25, 1965, part 2 of 2.
List of songs on tape box. Pancake reel.
Sing-Out mangled by post office, the contents of program unknown, June 22, 1965. Pancake reel.
Sing-Out N.Y. Folk Festival with Dane and Irwin Silber, June 23, 1965. Pancake reel.
Sing-Out show WBAI-NY, with Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber and guest, Michael Cooney. Pancake reel.
Sing-Out, Dane at preview for 1965 Newport Folk Festival in Central Park's Delacorte Theater, July 20, 1965.
A compilation of songs and comments submitted for use at the first big anti-Vietnam war demonstration in New York called, Sing in for Peace (produced by Barbara Dane and Irwin Silber) September 24, 1965, Carnegie Hall.
Barbara Dane Show, guests Guy Caravan and Tom Paxton, September 25, 1965. Pancake reel.
Pancake reel.
Pancake reel.
Pancake reel.
Sing-Out radio show, Dane and Silber interview with Frances Taylor about Bob Dylan, October 17, 1965.
Sing-Out out on WBAI radio show commemorating death of Joe Hill, November 17, 1965. Pancake reel.
Duration of interview was 62:45 min.
Christmas folk songs with commentary by Silber and Dane.
New Years program with Ewan MacCall, Brendon Behan, and The Singing Streets.
Dane and Sibler interview Happy Traum Finger Picking, 62 min.
Barbara's Blues' radio show from KPFK, Pacifica Station in Los Angeles, interview with Jimmy Witherspoon blues singer, with music from selected records, 12 min.
List of songs on back of tape box. Also has disc inside box.
Raimon is a catalonian political singer.
Letter enclosed in box.
Miscellaneous topical songs which came in from a variety of sources during 1967-1968. List of songs on back and inside of tape box.
Dennis Gaston, an ex-vista worker, anti-war, so called hippie interviewed by Irwin Silber.
Dennis Gaston, an ex-vista worker, anti-war, so called hippie interviewed by Irwin Silber.
Irwin Silber discusses attitudes about social change, current events with son of a former Communist who himself is an ex-Berkeley student who stood outside events on that campus.
Oleo Strut interview G.I.'s at Fort Hood, Texas talk about their experiences during Vietnam War, July 6, 1968.
Beastly Times Eric and Kirk Cheyfitz, song group in the Washington, DC area. List of songs on back of tape box.
Various commentaries on the Vietnam War by Vinnie McNamara at Operation P.O.W. in Concord, Massachusetts, Bob Missa at Burlington, Vermont and Chris Coyle.
Miscellaneous topical songs from a variety of sources, 1971. Notes on inside of tape box.
Draft resistance trial and support statements from active-duty G.I.'s, wounded veterans, and Gold star mothers.
The songs are discussed and also some of the history of the Philippine. List of songs on back of tape box.
List of songs on back of tape box, and also on piece of paper inside box.
Music from Cambodia sent to Isreal Young from Sihanouk government in Paris, 1972, 21 min.
List of songs on back of tape box.
List of songs on back of tape box.
New Harmony Sisterhood Band, Somerville, Kansas. List of songs on back of tape box.
List of items on piece of paper in tape box.
Tape in Dolby, 2:42 min.
Lolita Lebron, interview made duing the last year of confinement in Alderson, West Virginia, prison by Genoveva Clemente.
Box mangled by post office no way to check present contents.
Sing-Out WBAI Barbara Dane and Irving Silber contents of this show unknown as box mangled by P.O. No way to check.
Unpublished songs by Carroll Perry sung here by Clarence? and Elaine Geeler, possibly later recorded by The Chambers Brothers. Taped in Los Angeles, California, early '60s.
Jim Garland, "Sad Little Land of Vietnam," (partial) Oscar Brand, "A Very Nice Country," 2 takes, not used.
Bill Horowitz, Tanya (about Patty Hearst) and Rosemary Wood (the women who erased Nixon tapes).
List of songs on bottom of tape box.
List of songs on top of tape box.
List of songs on bottom of tape box.
List of songs on bottom of tape box.
Lynn a black lawyer active in draft resistance cases, gives detailed talks about Vietnam war from black point of view.
List of songs on back of tape box
The legacy of Malcolm X The International Scene as viewed by Malcolm X in his last year, Commentary by George Britman.
Rose-Redwoods, contains two songs, "La Lucha Continuara" and "Take Back the Land."
List of songs on back of tape box.
List of songs on inside of tape box.
This tape dramatizes the methods the U.S. is using in its attempt to win a war against the people of Indochina.
List of songs on back of tape box.
List of songs on back of tape box.
List of songs on back of tape box.
Selection of topical songs written during late 1969 and 1970 in the USA. List of songs on piece of paper in box.
Will Hoffman, Radio McGill, and Montreal, interviews American deserters in Canada during Vietnam War.
Will Hoffman, Radio McGill, and Montreal, interviews American deserters in Canada during Vietnam War.
Will Hoffman, Radio McGill, and Montreal, interviews American deserters in Canada during Vietnam War.
Will Hoffman, Radio McGill, and Montreal, interviews American deserters in Canada during Vietnam War.
Tape has extensive notes. See Terry Lipscomb, Texas for related materials.
Copies from various sources.
Stephen Texas Moon Argo talks about why he deserted and sings several songs. List of songs on outside cover.
Barbara‘s Blues radio show from KPFK, Pacifica Station in LA, interview with blues sing Jimmy Witherspoon, with music from selected records. Part 1 of 2.
Tapes made on the way to, and during the Poor People's March.
Tapes made on the way to, and during the Poor People's March.
Field recordings of songs and tales from Virginia, West Virginia, and New York State (Appalachian and Adirondack Mountains) made by Gwilym Davies in 1997 and 1998. Performers recorded include Spencer Moore of Chilhowie, VA; Phyllis Marks of Glenville, West Virginia in the company of Helena Triplett of Elkins, West Virginia; Rita Emerson of Glenville, West Virginia; Russell Lehew of Mannington, West Virginia; Dick Richards of Lake Luzerne, Saratoga, New York; Catherine Charron Labier of Whitehall, New York; Jim Cleveland and Colleen Cleveland of Brant Lake, New York.
Field recordings of songs and tales from Virginia, West Virginia, and New York State (Appalachian and Adirondack Mountains) made by Gwilym Davies in 1997 and 1998. The finding aid arrangement reflects the events in chronological order. The digital id numbering, C742-69 through C742-77, are identifiers provided by the donor and are how the files are named. Descriptions, performer and song lists, and notes about performances used in the finding aid come directly from the donor's documentation.
All songs sung by Spencer Moore (age 78) with his guitar accompaniment.
All songs sung by Spencer Moore (age 78) with his guitar accompaniment.
Catherine Charron Labier tells folktales learned from her grandfather Charrod and great-grandfather LaChapelle, who were born in Quebec. LaChapelle was a "boatman" (he had a fleet of Champlain Canal boats and hauled produce from the Champlain Valley to New York City), as was his son. Catherine's mother grew up on a canal boat. Lachapelle lived with Catherine's family in the French community of Whitehall, New York. Charron was a farmer in West Haven, Vermont, which is just across the Lake Champlain Sarrows from Whitehall, New York. Until she went to school Catherine Charron (Labier) spoke only French. These family tales have remained in oral tradition. Catherine is the first generation to tell them outside her family.
Dick Richards (age 76), from Lake Lucerne, Saratoga, New York, accompanying himself on guitar. Recorded at Rexford, New York.
Jim Cleveland (age 74) and his daughter Colleen Cleveland (age 37) sing songs. Colleen's nephew James (age 17) also sings. Colleen learned her songs from her grandmother Sara Cleveland.
Songs sung by Phyllis Marks (age 70), in the company of Helena Triplett of Elkins, West Virginia.
Songs sung by Phyllis Marks (age 70), in the company of Helena Triplett of Elkins, West Virginia.
Rita Emerson (age 90).
Rita Emerson (age 90).
Russell Lahew of Mannington, West Virginia, sings and plays harmonica tunes Songs and harmonica tunes recorded from Russell Lahew (age 84) of Mannington, West Virginia.
Collection of over eight hundred sound tape reels, including blues and jazz music and interviews with musicians; several hundred photographs of prominent blues and jazz musicians, primarily from the 1960s and 1970s; manuscript materials about blues and jazz musicians, arranged by the name of performer; and articles, drafts, and notes written by Pete Welding, journalist, record producer, and historian of blues music.
Transcript of an article by Sharon A. Pease published in Down Beat, July 1937.
Typed interview transcript.
Original pages from a published article.
"The Pine-Scented Sovereign State of Miss'sippi," an essay by Danny Barker. Original issue of For Now, issue #2, pages 25-38.
"In the Beginning There Was O.," by Peter McCabe. Original pages from Rolling Stone.
Original newspaper clipping.
Three original magazine clippings.
Original clipping from a magazine, plus a copy of the page proofs.
Typed draft of an article, with handwritten edits.
Two published articles.
Typed interview transcript and writings, with handwritten edits.
Typed interview transcripts, with handwritten edits, published articles (original pages from publications), and drafts of a published article.
Typed draft of an article, with corrections.
Photocopy from a magazine.
Original clipping from a magazine.
Handwritten and typed writings, as well as a newspaper clipping and photocopied pages from various publications.
Photocopied CD liner notes, typed and handwritten notes, photocopied pages from publications, and typed drafts of writings. Also includes a published copy of Nat "King" Cole: The Capitol Years (which would have accompanied a boxed set of recordings).
Typed draft of an article, and hand-drawn portraits on lined paper. See box-folder 20/1 for oversized materials.
Photocopy of a published review.
"Elizabeth Cotten, Folk Guitar Legend," by Jon Monday. Published in Guitar Player, vol. 9, no. 3.
Handwritten note from David Crittendon to Pete Welding, on yellow legal paper, and typed lyrics by Crittendon and White, and photocopies of the music to which the lyrics were set.
Two published articles; one original and one photocopied.
Handwritten note from Ted Darby to Pete Welding, dated April 15, 1965; and a typed interview transcript with handwritten edits and notes. A photo has been relocated to box-folder 21/12.
Original clipping from a magazine.
Photocopy of a published article plus a one-page typed song list.
Photocopy of a typed letter from Pete Welding to "Bill," typed writings with handwritten edits, and published writings (original and photocopies).
Two published writings (one original, one photocopy), and typed sections of a book draft.
Photocopy of a published article.
Original typed letter, (signed) from Rae Korson to Pete Welding; typed list of recordings of Edwards by Alan Lomax, and typed draft of an interview with or article about Edwards.
Press release from Delmark Records, proof and final copies of a published article, and a published news article.
Original pages from BMI News.
Typed drafts, one with handwritten edits, original pages from a published article, and a photocopied album review.
Photocopied and original articles, and other published materials.
Handwritten and typed items of correspondence from John Lee Granderson to Pete Welding, and a brief typed autobiography.
Typed draft of a published article, and two published articles (one original and one photocopy).
Typed draft of album liner notes, with handwritten edits.
Typed draft of a "bio-discography," with handwritten edits.
Typed drafts of a published article (two copies with handwritten notes), and a selected discography.
Original magazine article.
Original copies of published articles, typed drafts of album liner notes and a brief published article.
Original copies of published articles, and correspondence from various individuals. A photo has been relocated to box-folder 21/25.
Empty envelope from John D. Carney (Son House's brother-in-law), original published articles, a promotional flyer, and a typed partial transcript of an interview.
"Bee Houston," by Eric Kirss. Original pages from Guitar Player, vol. 9, no. 7.
Typed drafts of writings, including an interview transcript, a handwritten tape log, typed discographies, handwritten notes, correspondence, and a mock-up of "The Man and His Blues," by George Mitchell. The mock-up includes two original photos affixed to a page.
Original pages from published articles, one photocopied article, a typed draft of a published interview, with handwritten edits, and typed drafts of album liner notes.
Photocopied pages from an interview by Patrick Watson published in code [sic].
Typed draft of album liner notes, a typed draft of an interview, and original pages from an article published in Music Journal.
Typed draft of liner notes.
Handwritten notes, photocopies of information published in various sources, discographies, typed drafts of short biographies, typed minutes from the Blues Task Force meeting (March 15, 1995), and other typed drafts of published writings.
Original clippings from publications, a typed draft of album liner notes, a published offprint, and a typed copy of part of a published article.
Original clipping and a page from publications, a typed copy of part of a published article, and a draft of information to accompany a published article. Two photos were relocated to box-folder 21/36.
Published materials (original and photocopies), correspondence, a copy of Blues World, no.1, photocopied job sheets, typed drafts of published articles, typed draft of album liner notes, typed lyrics, handwritten notes, and a typed copy of part of an interview with Son House (where he discussed Robert Johnson).
Original copies of two published articles.
"Scott Joplin: Genius Rediscovered," by Martin Williams. Published pages from Down Beat.
Items of correspondence.
Handwritten notes, a typed list of performances, typed drafts of a published article, with handwritten edits.
Correspondence, typed drafts, typed discographies, and typed draft of liner notes.
Original pages from three published articles.
Original pages from published articles, typed drafts (including liner notes with handwritten corrections), handwritten notes, correspondence, typed cut list for a proposed album, and related documents.
Original and photocopied pages from published articles.
Typed and handwritten correspondence.
Original and photocopied pages from published articles.
Correspondence, photocopy of a published article, typed session information on index cards, label copy and notice of copy documents, and related materials.
Typed draft of an article on Lewis, by Sharon A. Pease.
Two typed drafts of an interview, original pages from published articles, and a photocopy of a newspaper article.
Photocopied list of Little Walter unreleased recordings for duplication, typed information to be included in liner notes, a song title list, a typed draft of liner notes, a typed draft of other notes, and original pages from an article published in Down Beat.
"Robert Lockwood, Jr.: Master of the Blues," by Mit Schuller. Original pages from an article published in Guitar Player., vol. 9, no. 11.
Saturday Review (complete issue - April 29, 1961), which includes an article by Pete Welding, typed autobiographical notes, and correspondence.
Typed draft of interview transcript, with handwritten edits, typed draft of a published article, and original pages from a published article.
Pages from published articles (original and photocopies), and "Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee Press Book: 1959-1960 Tour of India" (typed document), by Paul Endicott.
"West Side Soul: Magic Sam," by Michael Cuscuna. One-page photocopy of article from Down Beat.
Original pages from published articles.
Typed discography, typed draft of a published article, and typed transcript of an interview.
Jazz Record, no. 32. Includes "Barrelhouse Frank Melrose," by Pete Daley.
Pages from published articles (one original, one photocopy).
"Big Maceo," by Paul Oliver (photocopy of a published article.
Typed draft of a paper, with handwritten edits.
Typed copy of a published article.
Reprint of a published interview, correspondence, a photocopy of a published paper, typed and signed document by Gloria Oden, a photocopy of a published article, and Gloria Oden's curriculum vitae.
Typed draft of an autobiographical document (photocopy), typed interview transcripts (one with handwritten edits), pages from published articles (original and photocopies; also noting Shuggie Otis), typed draft of "The Johnny Otis Story," with handwritten edits, correspondence, and typed and handwritten drafts of other writings.
Photocopy of "The Megatape Sessions" song list, and typed drafts of liner notes (with handwritten edits). See box-folder 20/2 for oversized material.
Typed drafts of writings (with handwritten edits).
Typed drafts of writings (with handwritten edits), a published death notice, and handwritten notes.
Typed draft of "Jimmy Reed notes - new introduction," plus original and photocopied pages from magazine(s).
Typed copies of Jimmie Rodgers and Hank Snow discographies.
Typed drafts of writings (with handwritten edits), plus a handwritten letter to Welding from Dr. Ross.
Original clippings from magazines.
Original magazine clippings.
Typed drafts of interview introduction and transcribed interview, plus a letter from Welding to "Bruce."
Original clipping from Jazz Beat magazine.
Two typed transcriptions of an interview; with handwritten edits.
Typed sections of a transcribed interview, handwritten notes with doodles, a typed introduction to the interview, and original and photocopied pages from publications.
Original and photocopied pages from publications, typed and handwritten lists of songs performed by Sinatra, handwritten notes, and one letter to Welding from John Ridgway.
Typed drafts of documents, plus original and photocopied pages from publications.
Draft typed version of article by Sharon Pease on Smith for Down Beat, plus copyright registration information for the article, a copy of Smith's death certificate, and related documents. The photos have been relocated to box-folder 22/19.
Two original clippings from publications.
Typed bio-discography of Spires by Welding.
Published materials about the Staple Singers, plus a one-page typed draft of introductory matter for an unidentified project.
A typed half-page of a passage on Tampa Red copied from Down Beat magazine; the issue was dated November 15, 1939.
A two-page typed draft of a record review by Welding, a clipping from Guitar, dated August 1975, and a Nostalgia Book Club catalog.
Photocopy of a published article, typed draft of an article with handwritten edits, and photocopies of photos (the photos have been relocated to box-folder 23/2).
Typed letter of correspondence, plus two versions of an interview (both with handwritten edits), and Townsend's business card.
Original two-page article on Tucker, from an unidentified magazine.
Two original clippings from publications.
Photocopied draft of a typed text written about Joe Turner, a typed draft of another work on Turner (with some corrections), and an original clipping from a magazine.
Two typed drafts and possibly some other pages of an older draft (with corrections) of Welding's article Blues With a Feeling, a flyer for Jake Leg Records, and a magazine clipping about Turner.
Clipping from a magazine.
One-page copy of Blues News.
Typed drafts of various writings on Walker (both originals and photocopies), original and photocopies clippings from magazines, a handwritten letter from a person (Jack?) at Down Beat to Pete, and a typed note.
Two typed drafts of an essay about Ward.
One handwritten letter and three typed letters from Wardlow to Welding, plus an original printed copy of OJL [Original Jazz Library] Supplement, no. 1 (1965).
A typed letter from Michael Cuscuna to Welding, a typed letter to "Art" from Welding, typed drafts of various writings (e.g., liner notes) about Waters; some with handwritten edits, and one with Welding's sketches on the back of various people, and several clippings (most original) from various magazines. See folder 20/3 for oversized material.
Original and photocopied articles about Welding from various magazines, a flyer from Testament Records, a typed letter from Leonard Watkins, a typed letter from George Feltenstein to Welding, a copy of Welding's resume, and photocopies of photos relocated to box-folder 23/5.
Two photocopied articles from magazines.
Photocopied article by Paul Oliver from an unidentified publication.
Original clippings from magazines.
Original, typed interview transcription, typed proof with edits, and handwritten notes.
Original, typed drafts of interview transcriptions (one with handwritten edits, an original, handwritten letter from Williams to Welding, and original clipping from a magazine.
Original, typed interview transcript with handwritten edits, handwritten notes and a discography, and two photocopied articles and one original article from magazines.
Two typed pages of an unidentified writing about Williamson.
One page photocopied from a newspaper.
Original articles from magazines.
An original article and an original clipping from a magazine.
A one-page typed copy of an article from Down Beat (dated October 15, 1939), an original copy of liner notes from a Yancey LP released on the Chicago Jazz Series, and a photocopy of a published article from a magazine.
An original clipping from a magazine or flyer.
Identified as "Blues Book" in the document itself. Typed sections of the book.
Identified as "Jazz Book" in the document itself. Typed sections of the book.
Draft materials, liner notes, and related documentation.
Promotional flyer/order form for the LP, plus an original copy of Textile Labor, vol. XXV, no. 11 (November 1964).
Documents pertaining to the LP release, including typed biographical information, proofs of the album's back cover paste-down and liner notes, and a typed letter to Welding from "Bill."
Typed copies of various writings and song lists (some with handwritten edits), proof of various Testament Records liner notes, an original copy of the program for the worship services for September 1, 1968 at Eagle Rock Baptist Church (Los Angeles), and a business card for Robert M. MacLeod, Jr.
Three proofs of liner notes (two with handwritten edits), and typed copy of song list of text of notes (with handwritten edits). See box-folder 20/4 for oversized material.
Typed and handwritten copies of texts, and typed copy of song list, and copies of liner note proofs.
Proofs of liner notes plus an original typed version of liner notes with handwritten edits.
Typed copy of text and song list, with handwritten edits. A photo has been relocated to box-folder 23/18.
Liner note proofs (with some handwritten edits), a typed draft of text, and a photocopy of a magazine review. Photos have been relocated to box-folder 22/14.
Liner note proofs, a typed draft of text and song list (with some handwritten edits), and an image of an unidentified bluesman, printed on coated stock paper.
Two copies of liner note proofs.
Typed texts and a song list (with handwritten edits), and a typed letter to Welding from Norm Cohen. A photo has been relocated to box-folder 23/1.
Typed copy of text (with handwritten edits) written by David Evans, a typed letter to Welding from Evans, and a different typed text with handwritten edits.
Liner note proofs, handwritten notes, a typed discography of Muddy Waters's works from the Music Division, Library of Congress, and typed notes and a song list (with handwritten edits).
These writings are by Pete Welding and others, in published and unpublished form.
Original and a few photocopied clippings from magazines (and one newspaper clipping) about blues artists and blues performances, including several copies of Welding's "Blues 'n' Folk" column that appeared in Down Beat.
Original and a few photocopied clippings from magazines and newspapers, plus a complete copy of Anarchy, no. 51 (the blues, R & B, pop, and folk music issue). Also includes typed correspondence and a draft of liner notes sent to Welding.
A section of a typed draft of a document, with handwritten edits.
Original magazine clippings, plus a typed letter and two handwritten postcards to Welding from Rod Gruver.
Original newspaper and magazine clippings, plus a complete issue of Blues World, no. 24 (July 1969).
Typed draft of an essay (with corrections), two photocopied pages of a song list (with handwritten notes), a photocopied newspaper article, and a typed draft of credits for a John Lee Hooker release (with corrections).
Two original magazine clippings and a typed sheet of lyrics for "Blood Red River," with handwritten notes.
Original magazine clipping.
Original magazine clipping, a promotional booklet for boogie woogie piano published by Brunswick, and typed copies of articles originally published in Down Beat.
Original magazine and newspaper clippings, a partial typed draft of liner notes (with handwritten edits) and a later, more complete typed draft of the same, and a typed draft of the song list for the Chicago Anthology.
Original song sheets for "The Savior's Here" and "The Savior is Born."
Original newspaper and magazine clippings, and a typed draft of an article.
Original and photocopied newspaper and magazine clippings, original liner notes for the sound recording In the Spirit No. 1 and No. 2, and a complete copy of Hue magazine, vol. 5, no. 12 (October 1958).
Typed sections of a draft of Welding's "Running Mates" in American Negro Folksong: the Blues and the Guitar, a photocopy of a typed text about banjo folklore, collected by James Madison Carpenter (the original text stored at the Archive of California and Western Folklore, UCLA), and related materials.
Photocopied and original clippings. See folder 20/5 for oversized material.
Clippings from various magazines.
Photocopied and original clippings from different publications.
Two photocopied articles from different publications.
Photocopy of one set of liner notes, an original clipping from a magazine, discographies, and one sheet of album release data. Includes two offprints: "A Discography of American coal miners' songs," by Archie Green; reprinted from Labor History, vol. 2, no. 1 (Winter 1961), and "The Death of Mother Jones," reprinted from Labor History, vol. 1, no. 1 (Winter 1960).
Photocopied articles from magazines.
Typed essay, with corrections.
Original clipping from a magazine.
Original clipping from a magazine.
Typed documents, with corrections, and an original magazine clipping.
Typed draft of a document, with handwritten corrections, clippings from magazines, a promotional flyer, a copy of Rhythm and Blues Jazz Scrapbook, and an accompanying letter from Thurston Moore
An original copy of the advertising supplement to the Chicago Sun-Times. Includes a feature story on the singing group The Supremes.
A typed copy of "Time brings about a change: Topical reference as an index of change in blues and gospel songs," a paper Welding submitted while at college (with handwritten notes and the grade from the teacher), plus two typed drafts, handwritten notes, and an offprint of an article by D. K. Wilgus, published in the Journal of American Folklore, LXXVIII (April-June 1965).
Original newspaper and magazine clippings.
Photocopy.
Photocopy.
Photocopy.
Photocopy.
Original clipping from the magazine.
Photocopied essay.
Original offprint, signed by the author.
Photocopied essay.
Photocopied essay.
Photocopied essay.
Photocopied essay.
Photocopied essay.
Photocopied essay.
Original offprint.
Original clipping from the magazine.
Photocopied article from the magazine.
Photocopied article from the magazine.
Photocopy of a typed draft, with handwritten edits.
Original clippings from newspapers and magazines, plus a brochure for Folkways recordings (Fall 1968).
Typed original and photocopied drafts (with handwritten edits) and published clippings from magazines and a newspaper.
One issue each of Record Research, issue 83 (April 1967) and issue 85 (August 1967), and a ditto copy of a song/artist index (with handwritten edits).
Typed draft of an essay, a photocopied list from an unidentified publication, and a typed one-page list of CD sets.
Two original clippings from magazines.
Photocopied clippings from magazines and one original newspaper clipping.
Typed drafts, magazine clippings, a ditto of an item of correspondence from David Evans, and related documentation.
Typed sections of a draft.
Original magazine and newspaper clippings, plus a photocopy of a typed draft of a book review.
Handwritten and typed drafts (with handwritten edits) of brochures for Testament Records, a discography, and other writings.
Typed draft liner notes, held notes, and various writings about Howlin' Wolf, Rex Stewart, Erroll Garner, and others, and related documentation.
Photocopy.
Original clipping from a magazine, with reviews of live music performances.
Original clippings from magazines, plus two typed draft documents (one on gospel music, the other about Aretha Franklin; both with handwritten edits).
Handwritten and typed correspondence to Welding from Oster, plus copies of a promotional brochure for Folk-Lyric Records (one with handwritten notations), typed drafts of writings, and magazine clippings. A photo has been relocated to box-folder 22/8.
A clipping from the Los Angeles Times.
Typed and handwritten correspondence to Welding (most are from Mark Dobell), typed drafts of writings, newspaper and magazine clippings, and related documentation.
Photocopied article from The New York Times.
An original article published in Fortune, regarding African American population migrations in the U.S.
An original article published in the Chicago Sun-Times.
Typed drafts of liner notes, plus an invoice for Sony Legacy Records regarding Welding's work on liner notes, and a brief proposal for a Sonny Terry CD release.
Typed drafts of writings and related documentation.
Original and photocopied clippings from magazines, plus an original typed one-page document about the nature of jazz.
A writing by Koester on race labels, plus a fold-out record dating chart (part 1).
Original clippings and one faxed article from magazines, plus complete magazines:
Jazz Journal (August 1964)
Jazz Journal (September 1964)
Code (March 1965)
Jazz Monthly (May 1965)
Handwritten and typed song lists.
Photocopied pages from a published, unidentified work.
Original newspaper and magazine clippings.
Typed writings, both complete and incomplete, including an essay Welding wrote on the book Lolita, by Vladimir Nabokov.
Photocopied announcement of the merger of Xanadu Records and Cream Records, and a photocopied, typed writing about Xanadu Records.
Partial copy of a typed discography. Folder title taken from the original folder received from the donor.
Small brown-and-white poster/flyer with a photo of Collins, and biographical information directly on it. See folder 1/20 for related material.
Photocopied discography. See box-folder 5/16 for related material.
Original clipping from Soul & Jazz magazine, issue #37 (undated). See folders 7/15-16 for related material.
Liner note proofs for Testament Records release. See box-folder 9/6 for related material.
Final copy. Relocated from 11/1
Original issue of The Literary Times, plus two newspaper clippings.
British music magazine. Five issues: January 1964, April/May 1964, July 1964, September 1964, and January 1965.
One-page photocopy of Welding's obituary in Mad Rhino News, plus two other photocopied obituaries.
Year-end issue. See page 6 for the obituary that appears as a photocopy in box-folder 20/8.
Complete issue.
Oversized, black-and-white photo taken by Welding. See Box-Folder 22/17 for more images of Shines.
Documentation on the tape boxes was used to create the inventory for this series. This information was partially transcribed and subsequently edited, including abbreviations that were expanded and names that were normalized. Logged recordings are included here, and the information from them used to correct the inventory. Where possible, the title of the commercial recordings has been documented. When recordings have been digitized, the engineer's notes take precedence over those on the tape boxes; the archivist has edited these notes for clarity. Further details about the recordings appear on the tape boxes and accompanying manuscript materials. Dubbed recordings have been noted as such. Unless otherwise indicated, interviews were conducted by Pete Welding.
During the digitization process, SR215, SR740, and SR810 were found to be blank.
The sound recordings are organized in approximate alphabetical order, given the available information. Works by individual artists are organized by surname and when there are multiple artists by the first surname. If the sound recording is a compilation it is alphabetized by album or project name. Events are alphabetized by the event name.
LP mock-up
Collector's original ID number: 284.
Archivist's note: Anderson sings a cappella. Between songs Pete Welding and Anderson talk about where she learned songs, and other topics. The number "201" is appears on the tape box in parentheses, without any context. See the note for SR735
Archivist's note: The content matches SR069, with slightly different time markers.
Logger's note: Pete Welding (PW) interviews Billy Boy Arnold (BBA), a Chicago blues harmonica player. A child's voice can be heard in the background.
Vendor's digitization note: The program includes test tones. There is a small snippet of audio at the begiining of the recording (a false start). The program also has distortion and hiss.
"CTI 4 trak cassette sub master" on the tape box. This may be a compilation of dubbed recordings.
Collector's original ID number: 102.
Archivist's note: Bill Berry, interviewed by Pete Welding (who seems to have provided questions, perhaps in writing, as he cannot be heard on the recording).
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Archivist's note: Recorded at Dwinelle Hall, University of California-Berkeley. Also includes a spoken word segment ("Talk with E.B., E.H., and Phil Elwood").
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and speed fluctuations at the start of the tape.
Logger's note: Bobby Bland recorded live at the Whiskey A Go-Go, Hollywood, California.
Possibly a recording by Bobby "Blue" Bland.
Recorded at Lincoln Hall, at the University of Illinois. Collector's original number: 259.
Recorded at Lincoln Hall, at the University of Illinois. Collector's original number: 258.
Recorded at Lincoln Hall, at the University of Illinois. Collector's original number: 235.
Archivist's note: Released as Juke Joint 1501, this is a compilation of songs by various artists. It's unclear if this is a master or dub tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion, hiss, and flutter from the source tape. Test tones are on the tape: the audio begins before the test tones.
See the notes for SR750.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape.
Collector's original ID number: 8.
Collector's original ID number: 9.
Collector's original ID number: 10.
Collector's original ID number: 7.
All but one of the works are instrumentals.
Dubs of commercial recordings. Vera Brasil: Tema Do Boneco De Palha (Farroupilha LPFA-400), released 1964. Nara Leão: O Canto Livre de Nara (Phillips P 632.748 L), released 1965.
Recorded at Baxter Lecture Hall, Caltech (California Institute of Technology), in Pasadena, California. Personnel: John Carter; Bobby Bradford; Stanley Carter; Roberto Miranda; William Jeffrey.
See the notes for SR761.
See the notes for SR761.
Archivist's note: Recorded at Rick's American Bar, in the Holiday Inn, Chicago, Illinois.
On the tape box, Jimmy Brewer is also identified as James Brewer. Collector's original ID number: 187.
Recorded in Chicago, before an audience. Collector's original ID number: 186.
Archivist's note: On the tape box, Jimmy Brewer is also identified as James Brewer. While Fannie's name appears on the tape title, she does not perform on this recording. Vocals and guitar by Jimmy on all songs. Collector's original ID number: 188.
Archivist's note: While Fannie's name appears in the title for the recording, only Jimmy performs (vocal and guitar). Collector's original number: 189.
Archivist's note: Probably Jimmy (James) Brewer. This tape seems to be a dub of recordings made in a studio, but not yet produced for commercial release.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. The beginning of the recording is cut off.
Logger's note: Dubs of 10" disc recordings released on the Melotone record label.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times. In addition, the tape was recorded at a very high level.
Collector's original ID number: 182.
Archivist's note: Doodles on the tape box may have been made by Pete Welding.
Logger's note: A man named Joe is also present at the interview.
Archivist's note: March 1, 1974 was probably the broadcast date. See the note for SR151.
Collector's original ID number: 282.
Logger's note: Conflicting dates appear for the five Bryson performances. See SR127, SR128, SR129, and SR130.
See the note for SR126.
See the note for SR126. Collector's original number: 180.
See the note for SR126. Collector's original number: 178.
See the note for SR126. Collector's original number: 179.
Collector's original ID number: 236.
LC engineer's note: This tape is a dub copy of a George 'Mojo' Buford LP master tape recorded in 1969 that was mixed and mastered but remained unreleased until the Americana Anthropology record label released it in 2020 under the title Mojo Workin'.
Collector's original ID number: 241.
Archivist's note: This tape may be a compilation of live recordings. Due to a labeling issue, the digital file for Side 1 of the tape (as designated on the tape box) was named as Side 2, and vice versa.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Dub recordings of The Vinnie Burke All-Stars (ABC Paramount 139), on Side 1, and the Buddy Arnold Septet album, Wailin' (ABC Paramount 114), on Side 2. The original recordings were released in 1956. See SR594 for potentially identical content.
See SR154 for the log and notes, and potentially identical content.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Two performances: Billy Butterfield (Side 1 and the first four performances on Side 2) and Max Kaminsky (Side 2), recorded at Big Horn. Butterfield was recorded on April 29, 1973, and Kaminsky was recorded on October 12, 1974.
Dubs from various commercial recordings.
Dubs from various commercial recordings.
Dubs from various commercial recordings.
Dubs from various commercial recordings.
Dubs from various commercial recordings.
LC engineer's note: Multitrack session tape for a John Carter and Bobby Bradford session, recorded November 9, 1971.
LC engineer's note: Multitrack session tape for a John Carter and Bobby Bradford session, recorded November 9, 1971.
Archivist's note: The concert was held at Baxter Lecture Hall, Caltech (California Institute of Technology), and recorded by Pete Welding.
See the notes for SR112.
Collector's original ID number: 147.
Archivist's note: This may be The Celestial Trio.
See the archivist's note for SR198. Collector's original ID number: 148.
See the archivist's note for SR198. Collector's original ID number: 134.
See the archivist's note for SR198. Collector's original ID number: 51.
Compilation of live and pre-recorded performances. Accompanying set list.
LC engineer's note: Portions of the tape were recorded out of relative phase. This was corrected in the transfer.
Collector's original ID number: 243.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 242.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times, in addition to crosstalk on the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 138.
Archivist's note: The name Chicago Beau was spelled "Chicago Bo" on the tape box. Recorded at The Raven and The Rose, Sierra Madre, California. Pete Welding was the recordist. Collector's original number: 138. See the archivist's notes for SR777.
LC engineer's note: The tape was extremely sticky, with shed starting at 00:10:04, and started flaking off such large amounts of oxide during transfer that the tape had to be stopped and could not be transferred to the end.
Archivist's note: The tape box for SR777 lists one more song than the tape box for SR245. It is unclear which tape is a copy and which is original. Johnny Turner's band was called Blues With a Feeling. The Raven and The Rose was a club was located in Sierra Madre, California. Collector's original ID number: 26. See the archivist's note for SR245.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist.
Logger's note: Dub recordings of commercial releases, except for outtakes from the B.G. Sextet session (circa 1942), and the breakdown with the B.G. Sextet and Mel Powell.
Archivist's note: Due to a labeling issue, the digital file designated "Side 1" is for tape Side 2, and the digital file designated "Side 2" is for tape Side 1.
Vendor's digitization note: There is crosstalk on the tape. Side 2 has break-up on the tape at the tail; in addition, the program is distorted at times. There is print-through on the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times; there is also a warble during the program, and speed fluctuation issues throughout.
Logger's note: Rex Steward, trumpet; Tyree Glenn, trombone; Coleman Hawkins, tenor saxophone; Claude Hopkins, piano; Billy Bauer, guitar; Arvell Shaw, bass; Cozy Cole, drums. Recorded in New York City.(from the tape box).
Archivist's note: The album was originally released in 1956; the 1977 date may be work on a reissue.
Archivist's note: Unedited tape - comments, et al. Focus on Philadelphia folk music. The Whisperettes of Joy performed on several tracks. Coleman accompanies herself on ukelele. Collector's original number: 161.
Logger's note: Gospel songs performed by Mrs. Ella V. Coleman (EVC). She sings some songs alone and some with back-up singers. On SR061 we learn that these songs were recorded live by Pete Welding.
See the notes for SR060.
Archivist's note: Interview location: Palo Alto, California. Continued on SR218.
Continued from SR092.
LC engineer's note: In-depth interview with Judy Collins, focused on her 1962 LP, Golden Apples of the Sun. She is interviewed by Pete Welding.
Dubbed copies of commercial recordings, possibly with Compton playing piano. Collector's original ID number: 208.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program on Side 1 is distorted at times.
Recorded live. Collector's original ID number: 209.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Cy Friedheim (clarinet), Jim Sullivan (trombone), Ted Butterman (trombone).
Archivist's note: Pete Robinson was the pianist for Contraband (the name of the band), which released one album, in 1971.
The archivist supplied the title for this tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has hiss and print-through from the tape.
See the note for SR166.
See the archivist's note for SR166.
Archivist's note: This may be an unedited master recording for Contraband's album Time and Space See the archivist's note for SR166.
LC engineer's note: Tone at the head of the tape; levels set to this tone.
See the archivist's note for SR166.
See the archivist's note for SR166.
Collector's original ID number: 163.
Logger's note: From the tape box: Charles Copeland, vocal and guitar; J. Young, guitar.
Archivist's note: The track list matches the name of the album, but the catalog number does not. The album was originally released in 1958; this catalog number may be for a later version.
Archivist's note: The LP was originally recorded in 1959; this may have been a version intended for re-release.
This LP was released in 1980.
Collector's original ID number: 164.
Archivist's note: Several takes of a commercial for Crest brand toothpaste. The actor who has the line "Hey, man, that's my Crest" is almost certainly William Christopher, better known for his role as Father Mulcahy on television show "M*A*S*H."
Vendor's digitization note: Side 1 has break-up at the tail. Also, there is high-frequency noise, and the program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 165.
Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. According to the note on the tape box "all selections have been rough-cut, to remove extraneous material, but final editing has not been done. These are the original tapes." Collector's original ID number: 166.
Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Deleted material from Prestige recording session. Collector's original ID number: 168.
Collector's original ID number: 167.
Collector's original ID number: 169.
Archivist's note: Interview location: Chicago, Illinois. Collector's original number: 170.
LC engineer's note: "Tape is predominately a Blind Teddy Darby interview in full track mono format, but after 01:16:17 interview is cut off and tape goes into the 4-track stereo format and contains a recording of the commercially released LP Gazette Vol. 2 by Pete Seeger (Folkways FN 2502, 1961)."
Dub recordings, probably from commercial releases. Darby and Tarlton were an early country music singing duo (circa 1920s: Tom Darby and Jimmie Tarlton).
Dubbed compilation of commercial recordings. Side 2 is blank. The documentation from the tape box may not match the tape contents. Collector's original number: 174.
Collector's original ID number: 175.
Logger's note: Blues songs performed by Blind John Davis and Billy Boy Arnold, and an interview conducted by Pete Welding (PW). The recording starts off with performed songs, and at 22:49 the interview begins. The song titles are based on notes from the tape box.
Archivist's note: Side 1 seems to be dubs from various recordings. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. Side 1 has speed fluctuations from 00:37:30 to the end of the recording.
Archivist's note: The album was released in 1972.
Collector's original ID number: 17.
Archivist's note: Master recording, Side 1. Testament Records T-3301-A, commercially released in 1964. See SR073 for Side 2.
Collector's original ID number: 18.
Archivist's note: Master recording, Side 2. Testament Records T-3301-B, commercially released in 1964. See SR072 for Side 1.
Piano solos. Collector's original ID number: 177.
Archivist's note: The LP was commercially released in 1975.
Archivist's note: Dolenz and Jones were members of the Monkees. Tommy Boyce and Bobby Hart wrote songs for the Monkees, among others. Recorded at Six Flags Over Texas, Arlington, Texas.
Archivist's note: 411 / 7625 / Dolenz 2nd show (from tape box). See notes for SR176.
Archivist's note: This is a proposed tape for a Dorsey Dixon LP, collected by Gene Earle and Archie Green in Rockingham, North Carolina. Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original ID number: 176.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original ID number: 143.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The interview follows the music. Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 107.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and the speed ramps up near the end of the recording.
Archivist's note: Dr. David Evans is a musicologist.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss.
Archivist's note: It sounds like more than one vocalist may be heard on the recording. It is possible that the male speaker before unidentified tune #5 is Pete Welding. The recording date is possibly 1972, but this is unconfirmed by accompanying documentation.
LC engineer's note: The tape is identified in the documentation as a session tape for the Pete Robinson LP, Dialogues for Piano and Reeds, but actually contains a session for Dave Evans. Some song titles are slated. Same artist and (probably) session as SR825.
Archivist's note: "Maggie Campbell" and "Mellow Peaches" were recorded on September 4, 1972; all other songs were recorded on August 31, 1972. see SR818.
LC engineer's note: The tape only uses three of the four available tracks. The tape was erased and reused at some point. The box is marked as a 1972 session tape for Pete Robinson and Alan Praskin, but actually contains a session for Dave Evans. Song titles are slated. Tape ends abruptly in midsong.
Collector's original ID number: 108.
Collector's original ID number: 109.
Archivist's note: Dr. David Evans is a musicologist. This tape is a dub of part of his fieldwork. The date 9/6/1967 is written on the tape box spine.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
The Chet Baker Quartet was recorded live at Carleton Theater, in Los Angeles.
Performances by Bud Freeman, Bob Hammer, and Mousey (Mousie) Alexander.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: There is a gap in the sound on Side 1, from 00:20:11 to 00:21:07
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Logger's note: Performances by Bud Freeman, Dick Cary, Jimmy Jones, Leonard Gaskin, and George Wettling. The insert on the original tape box contains the titles of the songs and some notes about each song.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Recordings dubbed from commercial releases.
Archivist's note: The Side 2 content is unrelated to the Side 1 recording, and is out of scope for this collection.
Collector's original ID number: 218
Archivist's note: Live recordings, dubbed from recordings made by Bruce Jackson, and related to recordings in the Bruce Jackson and Diane Christian collection (AFC 2011/009). This tape is probably a compilation Jackson sent to a record company. Musicians include John, Jimmy, and Fred Galligher, Bill DeBusk, and Hobart Smith. Recorded in Saltville, Virginia.
Logger's note: The titles in the documentation do not match the content of the tape.
Two instrumental works (and possibly more), featuring Stan Getz; possibly recorded in New York. A man's voice can be heard between works 1 and 2. Collector's original ID number: 59.
Archivist's note: This recording may have been made on a reused tape, as the information on the tape box seems to be from two different recording sessions, with different artists.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss, and is cut off at the end.
All songs feature drums, sitar, and male solo voice.
Personnel: Frank and Jake, vocals and guitars; Ted Bogan, vocals and bass.
Vendor's digitization note: The recording speeds up near the end of the tape.
Probably dubbed from a commercial recording. Collector's original ID number: 55.
LC engineer's note: Live recordings; some are dubs that are multiple generations removed from the source recordings. The tape was recorded out of relative phase. This was corrected in the transfer.
All selections: James Artis, Walter Davis, John Scarbough, William Moore, Clarence West (guitar). Guest artists: Sallie Martin, Mattie Keen, The Arthur Logan Folk Singers. Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Collector's original ID number: 146. See SR222 and SR343.
Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The vocalists are identified as James Artis; Walter Davis; John Scarbough; William Moore; and Clarence West. Collector's original ID number: 207. See SR222 and SR493.
Archivist's note: There have been different singing groups known as the Kings of Harmony.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The vocalists are identified as James Artis; Walter Davis; John Scarbough; William Moore; and Clarence West. Collector's original ID number: 206. See SR222 and SR343.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Notes from the tape box - Bobby Hackett, trumpet; Jerry Fuller, clarinet; Harry Graves, trombone; Bob Wright, piano; Truck Parham, bass; Don DeMicheal, drums. Recorded by Richard F. Balz at The Big Horn, Ivanhoe, Illinois.
Logger's note: Notes from the tape box - Bobby Hackett, trumpet; Jerry Fuller, clarinet; Harry Graves, trombone; Bob Wright, piano; Truck Parham, bass; Don DeMicheal, drums. Recorded by Richard F. Balz at The Big Horn, Ivanhoe, Illinois.
Collector's original ID number: 130.
Vendor's digitization note: Crosstalk on the tape, and the program is distorted at times. On Side 1 the right channel is at a low level from the start to 00:00:23.
Logger's note 1: Both tape sides were recorded at The Big Horn, Ivanhoe, Illinois. Side 1 was recorded on November 12, 1972, through Side 2 to the song "That's a-Plenty." The balance of Side 2 was recorded on March 1, 1975 (four songs, beginning with "Just You, Just Me," and on May 28, 1973 (from "In a Sentimental Mood" to the end of the tape.
Logger's note 2: Personnel for the show on November 12, 1972 - Russ Whitman, clarinet and bass saxophone, Bob Wright, piano, Rail Wilson, bass, Don DeMicheal, drums. Personnel for the June 1, 1975 show: Ralph Sutton, piano; George Duvivier, bass; Barett Deems, drums. Personnel for the May 28, 1973 show: Bob Wright, piano; Marty Gross, guitar; Dan Shapera, bass; Hilliard Brown, drums.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Dub copy of songs not under copyright.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Mike Hall accompanied by his own guitar playing.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Mike Hall accompanied by his own guitar playing.
Vendor's digitization note: Significant buzz from the tape.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Mike Hall accompanied by his own guitar playing.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant buzz from the tape.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Mike Hall accompanied by his own guitar playing.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: There are notes and song titles that are crossed out but they appear to be the correct description of the songs. Billy Marvin, 1. I am Gonna Find her. 2. Carolina. This tape includes folk songs sung by an unidentified group of a cappella singers.
LC engineer's note: Multitrack session tapes for Mike Hall and a project called "Caprice Neurotique," with no other information on the tape box. There is also no information on this artist or project title found anywhere online (as of 2022). The tape runs out at the last song.
LC engineer's note: The recording has considerable distortion, possibly intentional. The box is marked as a 1972 session tape for jazz-fusion band Contraband, but actually contains sessions for singer-songwriter Mike Hall. The box insert contains the correct information for the contents of this tape.
Archivist's note: Pete Welding's voice can be heard between takes.
LC engineer's note: The contents and artist listed on the outside box (jazz-fusion group Contraband) are not what is on this tape. The inner box flap documentation does match the recording on the tape and is credited to Mike Hall, though the song contents listed are not complete
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is crosstalk on the tape.
LC engineer's note: Lionel Hampton Quartet recordings were dubbed from various LPs. "The Bop Session" was dubbed from the commercial recording with catalog number Sonet 692 (recorded May 19-20, 1975). The Lee Konitz Trio recording was dubbed from the commercial recording I Concentrate On You - A Tribute To Cole Porter, catalog number SCS-1018 (Steeplechase Records; recorded July 30, 1974).
Collector's original ID number: 63.
Vendor's digitization note: Silence in the recording from 00:25:40 to 00:29:57.
Collector's original ID number: 260.
Archivist's note: The tape box lists the lineup of musicians as Johnny Young, vocal; Walter Horton, harmonica; Jimmy Walker, piano. According to a slip of paper accompanying the tape, the solos were by Pete Welding.
LC engineer's note: A compilation tape, taken from two different sources, in two different formats. The first two cuts on the tape are identical, aside from tape speed. (one is 15 ips, the other 7.5 ips in half track format). It is an instrumental, mostly guitar-based and in stereo. It's not a polished studio production which makes me think this was some kind of advanced demo. The other four cuts on the tape are 7.5 ips and in quarter-track stereo format (but the tracks are in mono.) I was able to identify the performer as Ted Hawkins and are songs that appear on a 1986 LP on Rounder Records (called Watch Your Step). However, these are not the same mixes and one is a very different mix to what was released. The recordings date back to the early 1970s and were part of an album project that was completed but never released due to legal issues. This may be a copy of some of the songs close to when they were recorded. By the time this was issued in 1986, they were remixed (or Pete had rough mixes never intended for release). Track 1 and Track 2 are identical except for speed. Track 1 is 15 ips and Track 2 is 7.5ips. They are also half-track stereo. Cuts 3 through 6 are in quarter-track stereo format and are from a Ted Hawkins LP project in the early 1970s but not released until 1986. The mixes are different to what was issued in 1986. They are also in mono sound.
Archivist's note: According to the tape box notes, group members are: Neil Langston, Walter Kieey, John McCoy, Nathaniel Douglas, Ernest Wright, Marvin McDonald. Either Douglas or McDonald play the guitar. Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 245.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - vocals: Neil Langston, Walter Riley, John McCoy, Nathaniel Douglas, Ernest Wright, vocals. Electric guitar: Marvin McDonald. Recorded in Chicago, Illinois.
Archivist's note: Includes two songs: "Four O'Clock Blues" and "One Step Beyond." Side 2 has not yet been digitized, and may be blank. Collector's original ID number: 204.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
LC engineer's note: Unreleased/unissued Vee Jay recordings. The tape was recorded out of relative phase and corrected in the transfer. The first track has a gap at start where accidental erasure occurred at some point. The audio was also over-recorded on the tape, resulting in distortion.
Recorded at The Fillmore West, San Francisco, California.
LC engineer's note: The tape was recorded out of relative phase and corrected in the transfer.
This may be a master recording.
This may be a master recording.
This may be a master recording.
Collector's original ID number: 103.
Archivist's note: See SR275.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - an episode of Big Bill Hill's blues show featuring Hound Dog Taylor and other musicians on WOPA station.
Archivist's note: See SR274.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and has a significant amount of hum.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and has a significant amount of buzz.
Logger's note: From the tape box - an episode of Big Bill Hill's blues show featuring Hound Dog Taylor and Gi Gi de Carlos on WOPA station.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and a buzzing sound can be heard from the tape.
Logger's note: From the tape box - an episode of Big Bill Hill's blues show featuring Hound Dog Taylor and other musicians, on WOPA station.
Dub copy.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Carl Hodges, vocal and guitar. Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
final selections
Archivist's note: The tape box indicates these are "final selections." Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Carl Hodges, vocal and guitar.
Archivist's note: Content includes unused material and an interview. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: Side 1's program is distorted at times, and speed fluctuations from the tape.
Recorded at California State University-Northridge. Distortion in the left channel is part of the source tape, and is not connected with the transfer.
Recorded at California State University-Northridge.
Archivist's note: This is a dub of the LP recording of the two Hopkins brothers. All performances were recorded on November 19, 1959.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape, as well as crosstalk. Side 2 begins with speed fluctuations.
Interview location: Chicago, Illinois.
Logger's note: This recording comes in on an ongoing interview. I could not find the other part(s) of the interview. Most of the SR center on PW asking about Robert Johnson (RJ).
Archivist's note: Interview with Joshua Barnes Howell (Peg Leg Howell) before his death in 1966.
Logger's note: An unidentified person (UP) interviews Peg Leg Howell (PLH). An unidentified woman is also present and speaks on occasion. She may be Howell's wife. At the end of the tape (time 20:40) the interviewer "speaks a letter" to Pete Welding, rather than writing it.
Collector's original ID number: 31.
Logger's note: This is the first part of a two-part interview Pete Welding conducted with Howlin' Wolf [Chester Arthur Burnett]. The interview was conducted in Chicago, Illinois. Part 2 of this interview is on SR002.
Logger's note: This is the second part of a two-part interview Pete Welding conducted with Howlin' Wolf in Chicago, Illinois. The first part of this interview is on SR001.
Logger's note: Songs by Howlin' Wolf [Chester Burnett] and (his) band. The songs are not identified, so first lines are used here instead.
Archivist's note: Live recordings. Collector's original ID number: 239.
Logger's note: The songs may have been dubbed from sound discs. The songs are not identified, so first lines are used here instead. The band is composed of a lead singer [perhaps Howlin' Wolf], harmonica, lead electric guitar, piano and drums.
Logger's note: The songs may have been dubbed from sound discs. The songs are not identified, so first lines are shown. The band is composed of a lead singer [perhaps Howlin' Wolf], harmonica, lead electric guitar, piano and drums. There may be saxophone or brass on some cuts.
Logger's note: The songs may have been dubbed from sound discs. The song titles are from the tape box. There are several different band configurations on these cuts.
Archivist's note: Dub of Side 1 from the Howlin' Wolf album on Chess Records, Change My Way. See SR008.
Archivist's note: Dub of Side 2 from the Howlin' Wolf album on Chess Records, Change My Way. See SR007.
Collector's original ID number: 219.
Collector's original ID number: 220.
Collector's original ID number: 71.
Collector's original ID number: 70.
Interview with Mississippi John Hurt, plus musical performances.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 75.
Collector's original ID number: 125.
Archivist's note: This is a dubbed portion of recordings made at Coolidge Auditorium, Library of Congress. See SR068-SR069 in the Tom Hoskins collection, 1963-1967 (AFC 2011/026). Joe Hickerson's voice can be heard at times. The tape box back reads: J. H. 3 or 4.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 56.
Archivist's note: Dub of Side 1 of the 1967 LP (recorded June 1966), and released as a CD on Hightone in 1995.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Performances by George G.P. Jackson and James Crockett. The tape was sent to Welding by West German blues fan Harmut M. Munnich (see Series 6 for the accompanying letter, dated December 10, 1972).
Channels 3 and 4 have not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times, and also have speed fluctuations, and significant buzzing and hum from the tape.
Archivist's note: Alternate takes of cuts on the 1952 album Wizard of the Vibes (Blue Note 5011).
Vendor's digitization note: Problems with the quality of the source recording include phasing and speed fluctuations from the tape. The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Includes issued and unissued material from Wizard of the Vibes (Blue Note 5011).
Archivist's note: The program is distorted at times. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Collector's original ID number: 56. Personnel: Jamal (piano), Sabu Adeyola (bass), Payton Crossley (drums); probably Gary Burton (vibraphone).
Collector's original ID number: 58.
Archivist's note: The tape seems to have been reused, and the previous recording(s) incompletely recorded over. The first few seconds of the recording, and a few instances after, are moments from an earlier recording. More than one selection features a clarinet, and a man's voice can be heard speaking occasionally.
Collector's original ID number: 61.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - The Gospel Song Style. Clarence Johnson, vocal and guitar. Mabel Washington, vocal.
Archivist's note: A song list appears on the tape box. Also, according to the tape box, unused material from the second session, October 24, 1961, was tacked onto the end of this recording. Collector's original ID number: 213. See SR099.
Collector's original ID number: 212.
Logger's note: Compilation of songs by Professor Clarence Johnson (PCJ) and Sister Mabel Washington (SMW). PCJ plays guitar and sings. SMW sings. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. See SR100.
All selections: Clarence Johnson, vocals and guitar; Mabel Washington, vocals. All songs are duets unless specified otherwise. Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The first seven songs (except "Jesus Will Remember Me") were recorded on July 13, 1961. All other songs were recorded on October 24, 1961. This tape is a dub copy of selections for Heritage LP HLP-1010. The tape box indicates the first seven songs are from Side 1 (of the LP), and the next ten songs are from Side 2.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: Speed fluctuations at the beginning and end of Side 1.
Collector's original ID number: 200.
Vendor's digitization note: There is phasing from the source recording.
Logger's note: Story from Mississippi of a White woman who gave birth to a devil child (continued on SR346). Informants are identified as Bonnie Wood, Alice Churician [?], Helen Firbush [?], and Melanie Taylor. Collected by Melanie Taylor for Folklore 105 (a folklore class).
Story of a devil child (continued from SR345). Collector's original ID number: 201.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
LC engineer's note: Dubbed from various commercial recordings.
LC engineer's note: "Sweet Potato Blues" is incomplete. Tape ran out before song was finished. The song is continued, from the beginning, on SR011. Dubbed from various commercial recordings.
LC engineer's note: Dubbed from various commercial recordings. Track 1 of this file is the last song from SR010 that was incomplete on that tape. As on the previous tape, the last track, Track 6, is incomplete. The tape again ran out before the song was finished. And also again, the song is continued, from the beginning, on SR012.
LC engineer's note: Dubbed from various commercial recordings. Track 1 of this file is the last song from SR011 that was incomplete on that tape. All songs on this tape are complete.
LC engineer's note: Dubbed from various commercial recordings.
LC engineer's note: Dubbed from various commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is high frequency noise on the tape.
Archivist's note: Dubbed from 78 rpm discs.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Dubbed from 78 rpm discs.
The Lonnie Johnson album was released circa 1955, and the Sonny Boy Williamson album was released in 1956.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum.
Tape box spine reads: John Regulis Aid II GZ01-F. The original was received at AFC on a 7-inch tape reel. and was wound onto a 10-inch reel post-digitization. Dub of the original recording.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
This tape may be a copy, or an original tape for recordings that appear on the commercial release St. Louis Parties of July 20 and August 1, 1954, recorded at private parties.
Logger's note: Pete Welding conducts an interview with blues singer Mary Johnson.
Collector's original ID number: 225.
Archivist's note: The original tape was overpacked on a 7-inch reel, and during digitization was wound onto a 10-inch reel. Songs composed and sung by Idella Jones. Music by Big Joe Williams. Collector's original ID number: 157
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: The first half includes songs from Quincy Jones's album Go West, Man! (ABC-186; released 1957). The second half includes songs from Quincy Jones's album This Is How I Feel About Jazz (ABC-149; released 1976).
Recorded at UCLA. Collector's original ID number: 80.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 60.
See SR638.
See SR475.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there are speed fluctuations.
Archivist's note: The ABC-TV show "In Concert" featured concert performances that were recorded live and subsequently broadcast. The dates given are probably broadcast dates.
Archivist's note: Live performance, in front of an audience.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Possibly dubbed from ABC-115 (vinyl record). See SR482 for the same content.
See SR481.
Logger's note: This is the first of four recordings of the Rev. Lacy (pastor) and the congregation of Union Baptist Church. See also SR108, SR109, and SR110. The recording quality of this SR is such that both spoken word and singing are very difficult to understand.
See the note for SR107.
See the note for SR107.
See the note for SR107.
Interview location: Ridgecrest, California.
The full name of the group is the George Lewis Ragtime Jazz Band of New Orleans. This may be a dub copy of The Miami Folk Arts Society Presents The George Lewis Ragtime Jazz Band of New Orleans from the Oxford Series, v. 14, 2nd half. Recorded in front of a live audience. Part of a concert series. Collector's original ID number: 66.
LC engineer's note: The tape is out of relative phase, which was corrected during transfer. The audio quality is very poor, yet is obviously in true stereo.
Collector's original ID number: 67.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. Channel 2 has audio break-up towards the end of the program.
Archivist's note: Channels 3 and 4 have not been digitized, and may have no content. The tape box lists two songs ("Greensleeves" and "Tadd's Delight"), and has the words "lighthouse" and "jazz." These live recordings probably were made at The Lighthouse, a jazz club in Hermosa Beach, California. Towards the end of the first program a man introduces the band members: Lou Levy (piano), Gary Peacock (bass), Larry Bunker (drums), and Gary LeFebvre (tenor sax and flute). While the band itself is not named these musicians constituted the lineup for the group Shorty Rogers and His Giants, circa 1962.
According to accompanying documentation these songs were recorded in Sarezky and Kurshner's living room. Joie Cook Gorton (vocals, rhythm guitar), Laurence Sarezky (vocals, lead guitar), Rick Kurshner (backup harmony, drums), Richard Johnson (backup harmony, bass)
LC engineer's note: Side 1 - interview and music; Side 2 - mostly blues tracks. On Side 1, the speed changes constantly. On Side 2 the speed changes from 3 3/4 ips to 7 1/2 ips at 01:07:55:00, then goes back to 3 3/4 ips at 01:19:16:15.
Logger's note: Possibly unissued recordings. Includes the songs "Keep On Running," "She's Too Much," "When I Think About My Baby," and "I Had A Dream."
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss, and is cut off at the end.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dub of the stereo LP.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is crosstalk on the tape.
Noted on accompanying documentation as a tape copy.
Archivist's note: A dub recording (from a sound disc) of a radio broadcast of this cantata on the time following Abraham Lincoln's assassination, and the response from various groups and individuals. Burl Ives and Pete Seeger are featured singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is crosstalk from the tape.
LC engineer's note: Includes an aircheck of "Just Jazz," hosted by Ed Beach. WRVR-FM, New York. The recording is of Side 2, right track. The left track is blank.
Archivist's note: Recorded at Winnett Lounge, Caltech (California Institute of Technology), Pasadena, California.
Archivist's note: See also SR105 and SR106
LC engineer's note: The tape has sticky shed and had to be baked, then transferred in reverse due to extreme oxide shedding at the head of the reel. As a result the first ten minutes of the file sounds very muffled with lots of audio dropouts. Eventually the audio clears up to a much better sound.
Archivist's note: See also SR105 and SR106
See archivist's note for SR104.
See archivist's note for SR104.
Dub tape. SR510, SR511, and SR512 may all come from the same session at Clare Fischer's house that produced the album Report Of The 1st Annual Symposium On Relaxed Improvisation, released on Revelation Records (1973). The album was recorded on May 9, 1972.
Vendor's digitization note: There are speed fluctuations on the tape.
Dub tape. See note for SR510.
Dub tape. See note for SR510.
LC engineer's note: The tape was reused for at least three projects, going by documentation written on the box. The box is marked as a 1970 session tape for jazz-fusion band Contraband's Epic Records LP, Time & Space (released in 1971); an unrelated recording by Pete Robinson and Charles Orena from 1972; and an undated session with sax player Warne Marsh. The audio appears to be Warne Marsh. No documentation on the Warne Marsh recordings exists on the box, unlike the other previous contents. The recording ends abruptly midsong. There is no evidence this recording was ever mixed and released.
Logger's note: Pete Welding (PW) interview with the blues musician George McCoy (GM), who often recorded with his sister Ethel, and sometimes with his sister Ruby. McCoy and his sisters were related to Memphis Minnie, whom he refers to here as his cousin. In addition to McCoy and Welding, an unidentified man can be heard in the background, occasionally helping McCoy with answers. An unidentified woman can also be heard in the background (possibly McCoy's mother).
Archivist's note: Side 1 seems to have been dubbed from other tapes. It seems all three performed on all songs where Ruby sings the vocal part. She may not perform on the songs where George or Joe sang the vocal part. Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 116.
Archivist's note: Only Part 1 has been digitized to date. Collector's original ID number: 90.
Vendor's digitization note: The Channel 1 program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Only Part 1 has been digitized to date. A photocopied note from Clarence Johnson accompanies the recording, with a photocopied drawing (possibly by Welding) stapled to it. Collector's original ID number: 76.
Vendor's digitization note: Audio cuts in and out for the first four minutes of the program on Part 1, and the program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Only Part 1 has been digitized to date. Collector's original ID number: 77.
Vendor's digitization note: The Part 1 program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. According to the tape box, all songs are in Spanish tuning (open G). Collector's original number: 89.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. According to the tape box, all songs are in Spanish tuning. Collector's original number: 88.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist. Possibly recorded in Chicago. Collector's original ID number: 120.
Collector's original ID number: 171.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist.
Collector's original ID number: 172.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist.
Collector's original ID number: 173.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist. Recorded in Chicago.
Archivist's note: This is the first part of a three-part interview Pete Welding conducted with Fred McDowell. The complete interview is on SR064, SR065, and SR066; dub copies are on SR336 and SR337.
See the note for SR064.
See the note for SR064.
Archivist's note: This tape was dubbed from the 4-track original. See the note for SR064.
See the note for SR064.
Archivist's note: Milestone dub, Side 1. Received edited, with the voice on the left channel, and guitar on the right channel.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Milestone dub, Side 2. Received edited. Collector's original ID number: 30.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: According to the tape box notes, this is an "insurance copy," not a "real dub." Collector's original ID number: 156.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: According to the tape box notes, this is an "insurance copy," not a "real dub." Collector's original ID number: 155.
Dub of unused material. Collector's original ID number: 119.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The recording of McDowell ends at 00:03:52, and at 00:03:54 the recording starts partway into the song "Waiting for the 103," by Dan Hicks and His Hot Licks. The tape seems to have been reused to record McDowell, which incompletely taped over the prior recording. The end of the tape features part of a dubbed recording of "Jimmy the Talking Dummy."
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Interview location: Chicago, Illinois.
Logger's note: Pete Welding (PW) interviews Lester McFarland (LM). A man named Harlan (H) [the rest of his name is unknown] participates in the interview. Mr. McFarland is a blind musician. He performed as half of the duo Mac and Bob {Robert Gardner]. This SR appears to be the second part of the interview; see SR234 for the balance of the interview.
Archivist's note: At least two men apart from McFarland are part of the conversation. See the notes for SR095. Contains racist and sexually explicit language and jokes. Collector's original ID number: 81.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Bob McGuire (piano, vocal).
Logger's note: From the tape box - Bob McGuire (piano, vocal).
Side 1 and the first track on Side 2: Baden Powell Swings with Jimmy Pratt (Elonco LP ME-4). The balance of Side 2: Tamba Trio (Philips P 632-129 L).
Logger's note: The information written on tape container does not reflect the content of the sound recording.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 151.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Topelo Mealey, Natchez, Mississippi. Recorded in Chicago.
Archivist's note: Dubs of country music songs, as performed by various artists. The subject matter of most songs is death and heaven. Channels 2 and 4 were not digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Archivist's note: The test tone is followed (at 00:00:16) by dubbed commercial recordings of Memphis Minnie.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Memphis Minnie sings the first seven songs, accompanied variously by guitar and piano. The unidentified male singer accompanies himself on guitar.
Vendor's digitization note: Reversed audio during the last half the tape, edited to play back normally. The program is distorted at times, and there is hiss from the tape.
Title supplied by the archivist. All songs performed by Memphis Minnie (except as noted), who accompanies herself on the guitar. Piano accompaniment by an unidentified musician.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is hiss and print-through from the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 232.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 78.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Dub recording. Elmon Mickle recorded variously under the names Drifting Slim and Model T Slim. See SR467.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Elmon Mickle, vocal, harmonica; Jack Wall, guitar; Ike Parker, bass; Guy Jones, drums. Recorded in Los Angeles.
Archivist's note: According to the tape box information, this recording is meant to be a dub of Side 2 of a commercial recording. It has not yet been digitized. See SR466
Possibly the TV show, "Midnight Special." See SR625.
See the note for SR626.
Archivist's note: Collector's original ID number: 117.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Collector's original ID number: 118.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and the recording has a significant amount of buzz.
Archivist's note: February 1, 1974 probably was the broadcast date. See the notes for SR151.
Archivist's note: The last digit in the year is obscured on the tape box. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there are speed fluctuations from the tape.
Archivist's note: The album was recorded in 1961, and assigned the Bluesville catalog number BVLP 1080, but not released. Folkways released the album at a later date.
Logger's note: See SR377 for Side 2.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. A flange broke while transferring content.
Logger's note: See the notes for SR376.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: According to documentation accompanying the recording "Winin' Boy Blues" was recorded in Washington, D.C., December 1938.
Vendor's digitization note: Significant amount of hum on the tape, as well as static, clicks, and pops. The program is distorted at times.
Dubbed from different commercial discs.
Archivist's note: The tape box says August 25, and the tape log says August 29.
Logger's note: Personnel listed on the accompanying documentation: S.P. Leary, drums; Lawrence "Little Sonny" Wimberly, bass; James "Pee Wee" Madison, guitar (vocal); Paul Oscher, harmonica; Luther Johnson, guitar and vocal; Otis Spann, piano.
Vendor's digitization note: Dropout from the source recording at 01:38:13. There is also distortion and hiss, and the end of the recording is cut off.
Archivist's note: The LP was released in 1958. This may have been part of a re-release project. See SR549 for Side 2.
Logger's note: Personnel include Nick Travis; Al Stewart; Don Stratton; John Wilson, trumpet; Frank Rehak, trombone; Eddie Bert, bass trombone; Don Butterfield, tuba; Dick Meldonian, alto saxophone; Cliff Hoff, Bill Slapin, tenor saxophones; Gene Allen, baritone saxophone; Milt Hinton, bass; Osie Johnson, drums. Solo group - Phil Sunkel, cornet; Bob Brookmeyer, trombone; Gerry Mulligan, baritone saxophone.
See the notes for SR548.
Logger's note: Personnel include Phil Sunkel, cornet; John Wilson, fluegelhorn; Bob Brookmeyer, valve trombone; Jim Reider, tenor saxophone; Gerry Mulligan, baritone saxophone; Wendell Marshall, bass; Harold Granowsky, drums.
Dubbed from commercial recordings.
LC engineer's note: The audio on this tape seems to have survived by accident. It appears the tape was recorded in the half track format, but blanked over by being recorded without audio in the quarter track format. As a result, the original audio is 'between the tracks,' resulting in very low-level, very hissy audio. Also, the audio on the tape is split between tracks, with the first half of the tape recorded at 3 3/4 ips on track one, and the second half recorded at 7 1/2 ips on track two.
LC engineer's note: The tape is completely blank.
Archivist's note: The fourth part has not yet been digitized. From the accompanying documentation: the sudden breaks on the recording are from the source tape. Due to a labeling issue, part 1 is identified in the documentation as part 3, and vice versa.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dub recording; a combination of live recordings and studio albums.
Archivist's note: 10 blues songs; probably taped in a recording studio. This copy was made at 3 3/4 ips; the source recordings were made at 7 1/2 ips for the first few songs and 15 ips for the rest. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is also feedback on Side 1 from the tape.
Logger's note: This SR is an interview with blues and boogie woogie piano player Iromeio "Romeo" Nelson (RN). The interview is conducted by Pete Welding (PW) and another man, whom PW identifies as "Mr. Halpner" or "Mr. Halpern" (H). Recorded in Chicago, Illinois.
This recording may have been intended for commercial release but not actually released. See SR489.
Logger's note: Jazz pieces performed by Jack Nimitz on the baritone saxophone and Bill Harris on the trombone.
See note for SR488.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Jazz pieces performed by Jack Nimitz on the baritone saxophone and Bill Harris on the trombone.
Live performance, including jams and conversation. According to the note on the tape box, "when One-Leg Sam lost his leg, he renamed himself No-Legs Sam." See SR350. Collector's original ID number: 198.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 199.
Archivist's note: One file (00:37:18) is a recording of a 1961 Charleston radio show (on or near October 31). See the notes for See SR349.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape. Channel 3 source audio cuts in and out (reflected in the file).
Side 1: church service. A male voice can be heard preaching. Side 2; One-Leg Sam performs, live. Collector's original ID number: 197.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss and hum from the tape, and warble on Side A.
Archivist's note: 5-String Hi-Fi was released in 1956. Sonny was one of the Osborne Brothers.
Live recording, at Ash Grove (music club, in Los Angeles, California). Accompanying set list and notes suggest this could be the second show.
Live recording. Accompanying set list.
Live recording, which may include the finale. Accompanying set list.
Live recording. Accompanying set list.
Live recording. Accompanying set list.
Archivist's note: Shuggie Otis is the son of Johnny Otis.
Copy (as per the tape box).
Copy (as per the tape box).
Archivist's note: Copy (as per the tape box). Notes enclosed in the tape box indicate a tape dubbed from various commercial recordings, but may include three selections that are improvisations. These notes may belong with another recording.
LC engineer's note: "These tapes contain an 'off the mixing board,' full-stereo recording of a live KPPC broadcast from the legendary Ash Grove club in Los Angeles of a Johnny Otis R & B Revue that should be noted and listened to. The sound quality is incredibly good, as are the performances. There is no date for the show I could find, but circumstantial evidence place this recording close to KPPC's end as an "underground" rock, jazz, and pop station in 1971. On a side technical note, Johnny keeps mentioning the broadcast is being made in Quadraphonic (four-channel) sound, and while it was technically possible and was being experimented with at the time by numerous FM stations, the sound doesn't betray any evidence of SQ encoding so it's doubtful this particular remote broadcast was truly mixed and broadcast in the format."
LC engineer's note: "The contents of this tape are the same as [SR024], but this sounds like a poorly made copy of an actual off-air aircheck whereas [SR024] sounds like a tape made right off the mixing board."
See LC engineer's note for SR024.
This may be a copy of the recording made live at Ash Grove (music club, in Los Angeles, California).
LC engineer's note: The reel consists of two different tape stocks spliced together. Empirically, they appear to be Scotch-3M 208 and a non-backcoated BASF/AGFA variant.
See LC engineer's note for SR024.
Dub.
Dub of "Country Picking."
Duke singles for use as reissues.
Logger's note: Performance by a jazz ensemble.
All dubs have been issued as commercial recordings.
The dubs were unreleased.
Dubs of unissued material
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs from various commercial recordings: Art Pepper Quartet (Discovery 3019; 1953), Art Pepper Quintet (Discovery 3023; 1954), Modern Sounds - Shorty Rogers and His Giants (Capitol Records, H 294; 1952), Cool and Crazy - Shorty Rogers and His Giants (RCA Victor 3138; 1953), Compositions of Shorty Rogers - Bud Shank Quintet (NLP 2A; 1954), Shelly Manne and His Men, vol. 2 (Contemporary 2511, 1954)
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion, hiss, and hum from the source tape. The end of the recording cuts off abruptly.
Includes works by Phineas Newborn, Bud Powell, Billy Taylor, and Tommy Flanagan.
Recorded at The Boiler Room, Claremont, California. Recorded and produced by Pete Welding. Rough mix from master tapes, for audition purposes. See SR174 and SR175. Collector's original ID number: 223.
Logger's note: Rod Piazza sings and plays harmonica, George Phelps and Hollywood Fats play guitar, Larry Taylor plays bass and Dick Innes plays drums.
See the notes for SR173; see also SR175. Collector's original number: 224.
See SR173 and SR174.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Recorded live at The Boiler Room (club), Claremont, CA. Rod Piazza, vocal, harmonica.; George Phelps, Hollywood Eats, guitars; Larry Taylor, bass; Dick Innes, drums. Recorded and produced by Pete Welding (information from the tape box). Dub copy.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is phasing. On Side 2, the right channel cuts in and out throughout program.
Archivist's note: SR806, SR807, and SR808 were recorded live, probably in a Los Angeles music venue. Personnel: Rod Piazza: vocal and harmonica; George Phelps, guitar; Hollywood Fats, guitar; Larry Taylor, bass; Dick Innes, drums. The song titles follow, as much as possible, the titles as announced during the performance. See SR173, SR174, and SR175.
See the archivist's note for SR806. See also SR173, SR174, and SR175.
Title supplied by the archivist.
See the archivist's note for SR806. See also SR173, SR174, and SR175.
Title supplied by the archivist.
This may have been recorded at the same date and venue as SR806-SR808. See the archivist's note for SR806.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is high-frequency noise from the tape. A small amount of audio can be heard at the tail of the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The Howlin' Wolf segment (towards the end of the program) is interrupted by several pauses in recording from 00:22:20-00:22:50, and speed ramps occur when recording resumes. The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape, as well as print-through. There is a long gap of silence during the program, and the end of the recording is cut off.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape.
Archivist's note: An unidentified rock band, with a male lead singer, and female singers on the chorus. The date is a guess. A song about sexual relations, with nothing left to the imagination.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Recordings dubbed from various commercial releases. This recording has not yet been digitized. The list of recordings comes from the accompanying documentation and will need to be compared to the recordings.
Logger's note: This SR is in two parts. The first is three unidentified blues songs by Doug Quattlebaum. This is followed by Arts Council #4, an unidentified woman speaking about art, artists, and collecting art.
Collector's original ID number: 193.
Archivist's note: Both tape sides include an interview interspersed with performances. Notes on the tape box indicate Robertson's recording is Side 1, and Williams's recording is Side 2. The notes also indicate Robertson is a Clarksdale street musician, although on the recording he says he is from St. Louis.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is high-frequency noise from the tape.
Archivist's note: A note on the tape box indicates the date is on or about November 18, 1976. A letter from Denny that accompanied the recording is dated November 18, with the year 1976 and a question mark pencilled beneath it.
Logger's note: James Robinson plays harmonica and guitar. On the tape box: James Robinson / WHYY, Sept. 7, 1961. The song list is ordered differently from the songs on the tape.
Instrumental works; includes two-track mixes.
Pete Robinson interview, conducted by Pete Welding. Continued on SR157.
Pete Robinson interview, conducted by Pete Welding. Continued from SR156.
LC engineer's note: The album Dialogues for Piano and Reeds was commercially released in 1972. This tape has the master mixes of pieces that were subsequently Dolby-ized.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is hiss from the tape.
Archivist's note: Song titles follow the slates announced on the recording.
LC engineer's note: The tape box indicates this is a multitrack session tape for jazz-fusion band Contraband's Epic Records LP, Time & Space (released in 1971), but is not. The inside tape insert contains accurate information regarding the contents of the tape.
LC engineer's note: The tape was reused at least once going by documentation written on the box. Box is marked as a session tape for Pete Robinson and Charles Orena from 1972; and an undated session with sax player Warne Marsh. Audio appears to be Warne Marsh. No documentation on the Warne Marsh recordings exists on the box, unlike the other previous contents. There is no evidence this was ever mixed and released. After main body of recording, there is a minute or so section of incompletely erased audio from the Pete Robinson session which is included for completeness sake.
Logger's note: The original tape box has Entrance -take 1, Entrance -take 2, Entrance -take 3.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Logger's note: Music composed and performed by Pete Robinson.
Logger's note: Music composed and performed by Pete Robinson.
Logger's note: Music composed and performed by Pete Robinson.
Logger's note: Music composed and performed by Pete Robinson.
Archivist's note: This is presumed to be an acoustic version of Dialogues for Piano and Reeds. See SR767 for Side 2.
Archivist's note: This is presumed to be an acoustic version of Dialogues for Piano and Reeds. See SR766 for Side 1.
Archivist's note: Vird Robertson, vocal and banjo; Ginny Wickham, violin; Graham Wickham, guitar
Logger's note: This is the second of two SRs of Vird Robertson (VR) which Pete Welding recorded (SR139 and SR140). On this SR VR sings a cappella.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. The end of the recording cuts off abruptly. There is overlapping content playing faintly and at high speed in the left channel at various times throughout the recording. Reverse content in the left channel at the tail.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. Brief tape machine noise at the head, and high-pitched mic feedback largely in the left channel at the tail.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. The beginning of the program is cut off.
Logger's note: Probably a compilation dubbed from commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The sound tape reel received at AFC was received on a 7-inch reel, and during digitization was wound onto a 10-inch reel. The venue was located in Balboa Beach, California. The recording date is noted as September 2, but it may have been September 27. See SR319 and SR320.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape, as well as high frequency loss. There is a high-pitched tone at the end of the program.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Rogers, Chef Baker, trumpets; Art Pepper, alto saxophone; Wardell Gray, tenor saxophone; Gerry Mulligan, baritone saxophone; H. Hawes, piano; Joe Mondragon, bass; L. Bonker, drums; Bob Enevoldsen, valve trombone; J. Christy, vocals; Les Thompson, harmonica.
See SR318 and SR320.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times and there are speed fluctuations from the tape. A warble can be heard, plus a high amount of hum and buzz and a high-frequency noise. There are also audio breakups during the program.
See SR318 and SR319.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. There is an audible warble during the program, speed fluctuations, and a high-frequency noise that can be heard.
Logger's note: This is the first part of an interview Pete Welding (PW) conducted with Dr. Ross (DR), a.k.a, Doctor Ross the Harmonica Boss [born Charles Isaiah Ross]. It was recorded in Flint, Michigan.
See the note for SR050.
See the note for SR050.
Logger's note: Doctor Ross performs a blues song with his own guitar and drum accompaniment.
Collector's original ID number: 93.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there are speed fluctuations from the tape.
Archivist's note: Side 1 has not yet been digitized.
Logger's note: This is a commercial recording. Music performance by Bud Freeman, Dave Bowman and Don Lamond ("The Royal Rajahs," according to the tape box).
Dubbed from George Russell's album The Jazz Workshop (RCA LSP-2534(e), released in 1957.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, there is significant hum from the tape, and also instances of crosstalk.
Archivist's note: Dubs of commercial recordings. the "Santa Fe Group" is a reference to a style of blues piano played by African American pianists living near the railroad line in the Houston, Texas area. Performers listed on the tape box: Rob Cooper, Son Becky [Leon Calhoun], "Pinetop" Burks (Conish Burks), Black Boy Shine, and Andy Boy. Channels 3 and 4 may be blank.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 132.
Archivist's note: Solo, electric guitar. About 00:07:42, jazz music starts abruptly. The tape seems to have been previously used for another, unidentified recording. "Pete?" is written on the tape box; this may be Pete Welding.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant buzz from the tape.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there are break-ups of sound on Side 1.
Master recording, as per the note on the tape box.
Vendor's digitization note: The tape begins with a test tone. Issues with the program include distortion and hiss, print-through, and the end cut off.
Welding interviewed Shakey Jake in Los Angeles.
LC engineer's note: The audio is on track two, suggesting this was recorded on a quarter-inch four-channel multitrack recorder.
Pete Welding interviews Johnny Shines. Continued on SR238. While the tape box indicates the tape was recorded on both sides, only one side has content.
Pete Welding interviews Johnny Shines. Continued from SR237. While the tape box has the same date as SR237, Welding begins the interview by trying to recall where they left off "last evening," so it is possible this recording was made on March 5.
Testament Records T-2212. Collector's original ID number: 255.
Unissued material. Collector's original ID number: 276.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum on the tape.
Side 1 of an LP intended for commercial release, but cancelled. See SR487 for Side 2.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Side 2 of an LP intended for commercial release, but cancelled. See SR486 for Side 1.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Song numbers assigned by the archivist. Ratso's was a jazz club in Chicago. The Times Lounge was in Los Angeles. Recorded on a mono cassette by Harriet Choice. The recordings were "cleaned up" by Universal Recording.
LC engineer's note: Both sides are recorded out of relative phase. This has been corrected for the transfer.
Collector's original ID number: 126.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Smith, vocal, harmonica; Muddy Waters, Luther Johnson, Marshall Hoobs, guitars, Otis Spann, piano; Lawrence Wimberley [sic] [Little Sonny Wimberly], bass, S.P.Leary, drums. Recorded in Los Angeles.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Recorded live. Accompanying set list.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and the program has speed fluctuations.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Johnnie Mae Smith, vocal, Big Joe Williams, guitar, Bill Lucas, piano.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Side 1 seems to be a copy of some of the tracks for the Smith mono LP The Legend of Willie "The Lion" Smith (Grand Award 33-368). See SR477.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Willie "The Lion" Smith - 1. ABC, #200910
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. See the archivist's note for SR476.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 101.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. Audio dropouts occur during last 20 seconds of the program.
Logger's note: Blues songs sung by Smoky Babe with guitar and harmonica accompaniment.
Possibly a master recording or copy of a master recording. Collector's original ID number: 113.
Logger's note: Pete Welding conducted a six-part interview with Son House in 1964.
See the note for SR015
LC engineer's note: The start of this tape is in the half track mono format and the left track contains a 26-second snatch of the start of the album The 2000 Year Old Man, by Carl Reiner and Mel Brooks while the right channel contains reversed audio of a fragment of an unidentifiable Bob and Ray bit, likely an aircheck of some kind. The reversed Bob and Ray audio has been made forward for the listening file.
See the note for SR015.
See the note for SR015.
See the note for SR015.
See the note for SR015.
Logger's note: Pete Welding (PW) conducts an interview with Son House (SH). They discuss his songs and personal life experiences, including his first two marriages. This is part one of a two-part interview. The recordings ends abruptly. Continued on SR229.
Archivist's note: A letter from Tommy Vig, dated September 2, 1962, accompanies the tape. It is possible Welding reused the tape to record the interview with Son House.
Logger's note: Interview conducted by Pete Welding with Son House on November 21st, 1964 about his third, fourth, and fifth wives, some of the music he wrote and played, and some of his experiences in Rochester. This interview is continued from SR228.
Collector's original ID number: 214.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: See SR530
Logger's note: The SR consists of a special memorial program, "Songs of the Death of Presidents," hosted by Oscar Brand and produced by RKO General Broadcasting.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: See SR529
Five or six-voice male group, accompanied by guitar. Recorded by Big Joe Williams (as the recordist/sound engineer) in Starkville, Mississippi. Collector's original ID number: 53.
See the notes for SR187. Collector's original number: 87.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Arthur (Big Boy) Spires, vocal, guitar; Johnny Young, guitar.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Arthur (Big Boy) Spires, vocal, guitar; Johnny Young, guitar.
Archivist's note: Dubs of commercial recordings.
Archivist's note: Dub of an eponymous commercial recording (catalog number Brunswick BL 54017), released 1956.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum on the tape.
Archivist's note: Part 1 has a few false starts. It is an edited version of a more complete recording (the edits are audible). Parts 3 and 4 have not yet been digitized.
Archivist's note: Side 1 of an unidentified album (possibly a dub copy).
Archivist's note: The sound of an audio test around 00:01:24 and elsewhere. Possibly a sync track, with wild sound. A film projector may possibly be heard at one point.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, with significant buzz and hum sounds from the tape.
Logger's note: On the tape box - June Steele/Jim's house/J.M. Hall
Archivist's note: If this is the commercial recording of this name, it was released in 1955.
Tape copy of selected masters (Master numbers 16232 through 16236).
Archivist's note: According to the record label, the 10-in. disc recording was released "through special arrangement with Riverside Records."
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Blues music and boogie woogie performed by Montana Taylor, vocal, and Turner Parrish, piano.
Logger's note: A short clip of voice test and/or microphone test. One unidentified piece of guitar music is included.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant buzz. There is a gap in sound from 00:04:35 to 00:06:29.
Logger's note: Central or South American folk songs sung by mixed voices, in Spanish and Portuguese, accompanied by drums, percussion and guitars.
Vendor's digitization note: The program distorted at times. Side 1's left channel has level fluctuation on the tape from the start to 00:40:50.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is hiss from the source tape. There is also a test tone on the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 68.
Archivist's note: Various test frequencies, measured in kHz, with an announcement preceding each tone.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: This is the first part of a two-part interview Pete Welding (PW) did with Henry Townsend (HT), conducted in St. Louis, Missouri. Most of the interview is about Robert Johnson (RJ). A third person, called Joe, was present, [not Big Joe Williams]. (Note: It is difficult to hear and understand Joe, as he does not have a microphone.)
Logger's note: This is the second part of a two-part interview Pete Welding (PW) did with Henry Townsend (HT), conducted in St. Louis, Missouri.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant buzz from the tape.
Dub copy of final edited and sequenced Side 1; see the note for SR491. Collector's original number: 229
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dub copy of final edited and sequenced Side 2. See the notes for SR492.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: These recordings were collected between 1942 and 1970, and released on the Testament label. Side 2 of this tape has not yet been digitized.
Note from the tape box: "material is not in order used on LP; sequence indicated on log sheet included." Collector's original ID number: 136.
Vendor's digitization note: There is no right channel on the tape from the start of the program to 00:09:17. The program is distorted at times, with static, clicks, and pops on the tape.
This tape seems to be a compilation of dub recordings.
Unissued recordings by Lennie Tristano (piano, bass, and drums; guitar on tracks 1-3, 5, 7, 9), 16 songs. Capitol Records.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, with significant hiss from the tape.
"Tri-Tone Social Club" is named on the tape box; it is unclear if this is the name of a project or an album. According to documentation Cale plays bass viol, Bill Moser plays drums, and Tom Shepherd plays reeds. This seems to be an unreleased recording.
Archivist's note: The ABC-TV show "In Concert" featured concert performances that were recorded live and subsequently broadcast. December 14, 1973 was probably the broadcast date. While "In Concert" was created by Don Kirshner it is not the same show as "Don Kirshner's Rock Concert." See SR152 and SR153.
Pete Welding played guitar on this recording.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss, and is cut off at the end.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Boogie woogie tunes performed by Jimmy Walker, and fragments of interviews.
Collector's original ID number: 195.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and has speed fluctuations.
Logger's note: Boogie woogie tunes performed by Jimmy Walker, and fragments of interviews.
Collector's original ID number: 280.
Logger's note: Piano solos by Jimmy Walker. It sound like the first cut has two pianos. The second piano player is probably Erwin Helfer. From listening to comments between songs, it appears that the SR was recorded live by Pete Welding.
Collector's original ID number: 127.
Logger's note: Piano solos by Erwin Helfer and/or Jimmy Walker. The performers are not identified. It appears that the SR was recorded live by Pete Welding.
TBA
Logger's note: Piano solos by Erwin Helfer and/or Jimmy Walker. The performers are not identified. There are five guitar solos by an unidentified musician. It appears that the SR was recorded live by Pete Welding. According to information on the tape box the recording fades in and out.
Collector's original ID number: 145.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there are speed fluctuations from the tape.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 263.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there is a speed fluctuations at 00:00:06.
Collector's original ID number: 69.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times.
Logger's note: There is background chatter and applause suggesting that it is a live performance. The singer is far away from the microphone which makes it difficult to hear the lyrics.
Collector's original ID number: 244.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times.
On the tape reel: Maxwell St / Jimmy Davis / 3 Numbers. Collector's original number: 196.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there is phasing from the tape.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 283.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there is a speed fluctuations at the start.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized. Collector's original number: 277.
Vendor's digitization note: The Side 1 program is distorted at times, and there are speed fluctuations from the tape.
Logger's note: Produced by Bruce Bromberg.
May be a dub copy of a two-disc commercial album.
Recorded in Hamburg, West Germany.
Archivist's note: Because the beginning and end of certain works was uncertain, some of the titles appear in the log without a time marker.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. The right channel is silent from about 00:25:07 to about 00:27:46.
"H. Oster" (probably Harry Oster) also appears on the tape box. Collector's original ID number: 72.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Archivist's note: See SR312 and SR313.
Vendor's digitization note: Significant hiss from the tape.
Logger's note: From the tape box - #2 P.W. - B.S. A handwritten note on the box from Darlene Welding reads, "Pete, from time to time, would record music that he played and wrote."
Archivist's note: See SR311 and SR313.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is high frequency noise the tape.
Archivist's note: See SR311 and SR312.
Logger's note: Note on the tape box, written by Darlene Welding - "Pete liked to Jam [sic] with friends in his home. This tape is a recording of one session Zaven on Harmonica, Pete on gtr."
Archivist's note: Unidentified duo (woman and man, one playing an out-of-tune guitar) perform several songs. Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Produced by D. Wooley; the commercial recording was released by the H.N. White Co. on May 28, 1961.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The tape box indicates this is Thomas A. Dorsey interview #3, but it is the interview with Big Joe Williams #1. SR032 and SR036 include the same recording. It is unclear which is original and which is the duplicate.
Archivist's note: SR032 and SR036 include the same content. It is unclear which is original and which is the duplicate.
Collector's original ID number: 34.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and speed fluctuations from the tape. Side 1 has a sound gap (silence) from 00:02:13-00:02:52.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Big Joe Williams, guitar; Jimmy Brown, guitar; Willie Lee, harmonica.
Collector's original ID number: 41.
Logger's note: According to the tape box, this recording seems to have been made in Chicago.
Logger's note: Pete Welding (PW) interviews Robert Pete Williams (RPW). Other people are present in the room. It seems that the SR begins in the midst of an ongoing conversation. There may be a recording that precedes this one.
Collector's original ID number: 227.
The tape box has "S.B. master." Collector's original ID number: 137.
Archivist's note: Sonny Boy Williamson (sometimes self-styled as Sonny Boy Williamson II; d. 1965).
Dubs from commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 39.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. The source tape also had print-through.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Archivist's note: First set, on either July 8 or 9. Copy of an earlier or the original recording. Near the end of the recording Jack Wilson introduces the band (Ike Isaacs, bass; Donald Bailey, drums and percussion), and says the performance is being recorded live for Blue Note Records.
Third set. Possibly a dub copy.
Possibly a dub copy.
Possibly a dub copy.
Possibly a dub copy.
Possibly a dub copy.
Recorded live at The In-Place.
Recorded live at The In-Place.
Probably recorded live at The In-Place.
Archivist's note: The album was originally released in 1960. This recording may have been part of an effort to re-release the album.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The album was originally released in 1961. This recording may have been part of an effort to re-release the album.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Solo piano jazz pieces. Gerry Collate [Collete?], piano soloist.
Collector's original ID number: 37.
Logger's note: Woods is a street singer who was blind. He sings and plays accordion on all selections. Recorded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Archivist's note: Includes unedited comments and one song ("Down in the Valley" (described on the tape box as the "broken version"). See notes for SR124.
Archivist's note: Recorded live, on these dates, at Pathé-Marconi Studios. Dub copy of the LP. The tape box has "And When We're Young" as the album title.
Copy of the master recording.
See note for SR764
Recorded on one tape side only. Collector's original ID number: 48.
Archivist's note: Lee Wooten was the husband of Ethel McCoy.
Includes live recordings and some dubs of commercial recordings. Accompanying set list. The July recordings were made at The Edge Lounge. The November recordings were made in "a friend's living room."
LC engineer's note: The tape was recorded out of relative phase. This was corrected in the transfer.
Dub recording.
Vendor's digitization note: Some high frequency loss on this recording, as well as distortion and hiss.
Dub copy of the sequenced LP.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The interview was conducted by François Positif (a jazz journalist), in Paris, France, at the Hotel d'Angleterre. The tape is in stereo, but the audio is itself mono. This copy is dubbed from the source, which is a longer interview.
Archivist's note: Emmitt Siniard confirmed the name of the band, and shared additional names of personnel involved, and provided the recording date range. He identified the location as his first recording studio (email response to the archivist, December 19, 2021).
Events are grouped by the event name.
Recorded live at Baxter Lecture Hall, Caltech (California Institute of Technology), in Pasadena, as part of an all-Duke Ellington program. Personnel: Barney Bigard, clarinet; Britt Woodman, trombone; Jimmy Jones, piano; Larry Leatherwood, bass; Nick Fatool, drums.
Archivist's note: The tape container indicates the concert date was November 20, while SR137's container indicates the date was October 20.The archivist at Caltech confirmed the date was October 20. Recordings from this event are also included on SR137, SR749, SR756, SR757, and SR758.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has hiss from the tape.
Archivist's note: Other recordings from this event are included on SR137, SR756, SR757, SR758, and SR817, with further details noted for SR817 relevant to all recordings from the event.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape. The beginning and end of the tape are cut off.
Described on the tape box as a rough dub-down recording. See SR817 for further details and notes. Recordings from this event are included on SR749, SR756, SR757, SR758, and SR817.
The tape box includes the following information: Barney Bigard; Britt Woodman; Jimmy Jones; Ray Leatherwood; Nick Fatool / Caltech Concert.
Other recordings from this event are included on SR137, SR749, SR757, SR758, and SR817, with further details noted for SR817 relevant to all recordings from the event.
Archivist's note: Other recordings from this event are included on SR137, SR749, SR756, SR758, and SR817, with further details noted for SR817 relevant to all recordings from the event.
Archivist's note: Other recordings from this event are included on SR137, SR749, SR756, SR757, and SR817, with further details noted for SR817 relevant to all recordings from the event.
Archivist's note: See SR213 for performances from the 1975 festival.
LC engineer's note: The tape side were recorded out of relative phase. This was corrected in the transfer.
Logger's note: Performers include Marty Grosz on guitar, [unintelligible name on the recording] on drums, Milt Hinton on bass, Kenny Davern on clarinet, and Bob Wilber on clarinet. This audio log includes some of the band members' banter with each other in between songs, and jokes they make about Marty Grosz.
Archivist's note: In 1964 Down Beat magazine held three discussions with drummers, at three locations. This recordings seems to be the third discussion, held in Down Beat 's Chicago office. Elvin Jones and Joe Morello are interviewed by Don (no last name given). The event was covered in the magazine's March 26, 1964 issue.
LC engineer's note: This file contains audio from the left track of the tape, which was in reverse (highly unusual). This was corrected in both preservation and access files. This suggests the tape was recorded in the half-track mono format and later altered on a quarter-track stereo machine. The audio is almost completely inaudible from 00:24:50 to the end of the file but there is audio. It sounds like poor erasure.
Archivist's note: The festival was organized by Hans W. Ewert for Radio WDR and held in Cologne, West Germany. While the date on the tape box is September 8, the festival was held on September 14-15. Three digital files were created from this recording: their durations are 00:43:59, 00:47:20, and 01:35:42. See the notes for SR133
See the notes for SR131.
See the notes for SR131.
Archivist's note: Part of the program series, "Ambassadors of Jazz." September 13, 1963 is the broadcast date. Recorded at Hibiya Outdoor Hall, Tokyo. Mitsuko Miyake recorded from the 1970s under the name Martha Miyake.
Personnel: Frank Chace, clarinet; Johnny Mandel, trumpet; Marty Grosz, guitar; Joe Levinson, bass; Wayne Jones, drums. According to the tape box, the recording starts with a "rehearsal of tunes, then [the] Bunky Green Quintet rehearsal."
These recordings are organized by the name of the broadcast.
LC engineer's note: Undated aircheck from WBAI-FM, New York during a pledge drive. The presence of the Bob Marley tune "So Much Things to Say" on the tape mentioned as being a brand new release (June 3, 1977) places the aircheck from early June 1977.
Collector's original ID number: 226.
Logger's note: Notes on the tape box indicate the following: Band 1 - introduction. Play Side A of enclosed LP. Band 2 - Play at conclusion of Side A (Starting identification, etc.). Band 3 - Introduction to part 2 of show. Play side B of enclosed LP. Band 4 - Conclusion.
Archivist's note 1: Pete Welding's radio show "Blue Monday Blues" was a one-hour show on WXFM, Chicago, Illinois. The show featured blues recordings as well as live interviews and performances.
Archivist's note 2: Pete Welding may have made this tape to reflect introductions to the LP, and not recorded the LP itself.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum.
Logger's note: Johnny Young is the featured guest.
Logger's note: Johnny Young is the featured guest.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distored at times and has significant hum.
Logger's note: This show features discussion of the development of the blues style in Chicago.
Collector's original ID number: 79.
The tape box spine reads: "Hank Williams on Radio Transcription"
Archivist's note: These recordings may have been dubbed from the 1993 CD release, rather than the original transcription discs. See https://www.discogs.com/release/1911825-Hank-Williams-Health-Happiness-Shows for more details.
Vendor's digitization note: There is significant hum on the tape, and the programs are distorted at times.
Contents include a gag radio broadcast, with someone imitating Lionel Barrymore tells a story about a bear (circa 1953-1954). Frank Goss is the announcer. Other comedy sketches are included on the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 19.
Archivist's note: Johnny Turner is better known as John "Honeyboy" Turner. On the radio show, Scott interviewed Turner, who played guitar and sang live, backed by Zaven Jambazian on harmonica.
Vendor's digitization note: The source program has distortion and hiss. The beginning of the program is cut off.
Archivist's note: Episodes from Sinatra's radio program, "Songs by Sinatra."
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is crosstalk from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: For Channel 2, there is a gap in the program (from the source tape) from 01:16:43 - 01:23:13, and the program is distorted at times. For Channel 3, there is a gap in the program (from the source tape) from 01:13:39 - 01:19:12. For Channel 4, there is a speed fluctuation at the start of the program (from the source tape), and crosstalk on the tape.
These recordings are organized by music style, record label, or related categories.
Vendor's digitization note: The recording begins with a test tone. The program has distortion and hiss.
Dub recording.
Dubs from commercial recordings.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by various singers, including Peggy Seeger, Furry Lewis, Memphis Minnie, and others.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by Lightnin' Hopkins.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Logger's note: Dubbed commercial recordings by several artists.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubbed from 78 rpm sound discs.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubbed from 78 rpm sound discs.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum, as well as crosstalk, from the tape.
Dubbed from 78 rpm sound discs.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Blues songs performed by Ernest Lane, James Williamson and other singers. Side 1 - #102-Ernest Lane - Little Girl. Side 2 - F 121-James Williamson - Homesick
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss, and crosstalk from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape. Audio on the left channel only from 00:23:43 to the end.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs from commercial recordings.
Archivist's note: "Texas Slim" was a pseudonym used by John Lee Hooker.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Johnny Shines, James Cotton, Harmonica Frank (Chess Records), Memphis Minnie, Big Joe McCoy, Texas Slim (King Records), Barbeque Bob (Columbia Records).
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape. There is also crosstalk. On Side 1 the right channel has a low audio level from 01:05:15 to the end, and the level fades until it is inaudible (01:28:26 to the end). On the same tape side there is a audio gap from 00:28:30 to 00:31:11.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues and boogie woogie performances dubbed from various unidentified recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape. Dropouts throughout the recordings due to severe curling of the source tape.
Archivist's note: The fourth channel has not yet been digitized.
Logger's note: Blues songs dubbed from recordings of various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: Channel 1: stereo; Channels 2 and 3: mono. Channel 2: simultaneous programs recorded on the tape from the beginning of the program to 00:19:30. Other issues: the programs are distorted at times, in addition to static, clicks and pops, crosstalk, high frequency noise, and significant hum, all from the tape.
Archivist's note: The fourth channel has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: Channel 1: stereo. Channels 2 and 3: mono. Channel 1: right channel cuts out between 01:27:08 and 01:27:52. Channel 2: program volume fluctuates throughout tape, simultaneous programs can be heard at start, the program is distorted at times, there is static on tape, as well as clicks and pops, and also crosstalk.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs by various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and crosstalk on the tape. On Side 2: there are drop-outs and the right channel has a very low level from 00:37:12 to 01:03:46, and a gap from 01:03:46 to 01:17:03.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Archivist's note: The fourth channel has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: Static on tape, plus clicks and pops on the tape. The program is distorted at times, with crosstalk on the tape. Side 2 has two programs simultaneously playing in opposite directions. Side 3 is stereo, left channel only from 00:11:47 to the end, with a gap from 00:20:34 to 00:32:15.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is crosstalk from the tape.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum and buzz from the tape.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum and buzz from the tape.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs of various unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Notes from the original tape box: Side 1 - Merline Johnson #8 thru #24. Side 2 - Merline Johnson #25 thru #43 Nora Lee King.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs by Merline Johnson and other unidentified singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Archivist's note: While the tape box indicates "Christmas America" and has a few song titles, the tape is a compilation of various blues recordings, some recorded live, which may appear elsewhere in this collection. The current title was supplied by the archivist
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape, as well as crosstalk. Side 2 has an audio gap from 00:03:07 to 00:05:59.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by Mississippi Sheiks.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercial recordings by Tampa Joe and Macon Ed.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is also a warble.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercially-recorded blues songs by Peg Leg Howell and His Gang, and Lonnie Johnson. There is a list of songs on the tape but the faded handwriting is mostly unreadable.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and a speed fluctuation at the end of the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: Programs are distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape. Four digital files were created: two from each tape side, due to file size limitations.
Dubs of three commercial recordings from 1943-1953; boogie woogie blues, piano solo and vocal pieces, performed by Jimmy Yancey and Cripple Clarence Lofton.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Mockup of Chess "Female Blues" LP. Three "Dolby-ized" tracks from master (have been dubbed).
Dubs of commercial recordings performed by "Little George" Smith (George "Harmonica" Smith) and others. Also bits of non-blues music by other performers and fooling around in a recording studio.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. Part 1 has speed fluctuation on the tape at the tail. Part 3 has two audio gaps: 00:09:23-17:30 and 00:41:38-00:42:46.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times and warbles, and the sound breaks up towards the end of the recording.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercially-recorded country blues songs by Big Bill Broonzy, Blind Boy Fuller, and Bull City Red.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs from commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
EZQ 102.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss on the tape.
EZQ 108
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Instrumental jazz guitar works composed and performed by William Gomez.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Archivist's note: "Garon" may be Paul Garon, a noted writer and blues historian. Due to a labeling issue, the digital file designated "Side 1" is for tape Side 2, and the digital file designated "Side 2" is for tape Side 1.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Blind Boy Fuller, Son Bond, Big Bill Broonzy, Clifford Hayes (Louisville Stompers), Carr Blackwell [probably Leroy Carr and Scrapper Blackwell], B. Carter, Dr. Clayton, Bumble Bee Slim, and more.
Dubs of commercial recordings. Due to a labeling issue, the digital file designated "Side 1" is for tape Side 2, and the digital file designated "Side 2" is for tape Side 1. See archivist's note for SR429.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Garon Dubs Inset #2. Side 1: Barbecue Bob [Robert Hicks], Hokum Boys, Rosetta Howard. Peg Leg Howell and Jim Hill, Jim Jam. Side 2: Robert Johnson. Cripple Clarence Lofton, J. McCoy, Harlem Hamfats, Sonny Boy Williamson.
Dubs of commercial recordings. Due to a labeling issue, the digital file designated "Side 1" is for tape Side 2, and the digital file designated "Side 2" is for tape Side 1. See archivist's note for SR429.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hum from the tape.
Logger's note: From the tape box - Side 1 - Garon Dubs Inset #3. Rice Miller. Big Joe Williams, Memphis Minnie, David "Pete" McKinley. Side 2 - Blind Willie, Buddy Moss, Hambone Willie Newbern, Guilford "Peachtree" Payne, Walter Roland, Roosevelt Scott.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercially-recorded gospel songs and blues songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of commercially-recorded blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: Dubs of blues songs and folk songs by various singers.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is warbling during the program. The speed increases gradually, from 00:21:10 to the end of the program.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 221.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Collector's original ID number: 222.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss from the tape.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Dubs of commercial recordings.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The recording is misidentified on the tape box as "Joe Albany, #4."
LC engineer's note 1: Track 1 and track 2 are identical except for speed. Track 1 is 15 ips and track 2 is 7 1/2 ips. They are also half-track stereo. The performers and song title are unknown and sound like an advanced experimental demo, not a finished product. Cuts 3 through 6 are in quarter-track stereo format and are from a Ted Hawkins LP project dating from the early 1970s but not released until 1986. The mixes are different to what was issued in 1986. They are also in mono sound.
LC engineer's note 2: Side 2, while not technically blank, contains no audio information. It appears the tape was poorly bulk erased before use, with only Side 1 subsequently recorded. Side 2 contains nothing but loud hiss and a high frequency whine.
Archivist's note: The recording is misidentified on the tape box spine as "Joe Albany, #1." The tape has six unidentified songs, ranging from pop to R & B to gospel, and all are of the easy-listening variety.
Archivist's note: The recording is misidentified on the tape box as "Joe Albany, #3." LC engineer Rob Cristarella identified the style of music on the tape and its approximate era.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is significant hiss on the tape.
Collector's original ID number: 216.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: Recordings on this sound tape reel were copied from various AFC collections, as noted below.
Collector's original ID number: 100.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The original recordings are from the Library of Congress and Fisk University Mississippi Delta collection, 1941-1943 (AFC 1941/002).
Logger's note: The SR consists of folk songs by Sid Hemphill and his band, in the style of fife and drum. The recordings include LWO 6456, AFS 06672, A1 and A4. AFS 06623, A1, A3 and A4.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: The original recordings are from the Library of Congress and Fisk University Mississippi Delta collection, 1941-1943 (AFC 1941/002).
Logger's note: The SR consists of an interview of David Edwards by Alan Lomax. Tape no. 1 of 4. LWO 5433, AFS 06610 A1 and A2, AFS 06610 B1-B5, AFS 06611 A1, and AFS 06611 A2-A4.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
See the archivist's note for SR534.
Logger's note: The SR consists of an interview of David Edwards by Alan Lomax. Tape no. 2 of 4. LWO 5433, AFS 06611 B, AFS 06612 A1-A2, AFS 06612 B1-B2.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times, and there is a skip (from the source tape) at about the 00:13:00 mark.
Logger's note: The SR consists of an interview of David Edwards by Alan Lomax. Tape no. 3 of 4. LWO 5433, AFS 06614 A and B, AFS 06615 A1.
See the archivist's note for SR534.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
See the archivist's note for SR534.
Logger's note: The SR consists of an interview of David Edwards by Alan Lomax. Tape no. 4 of 4. LWO 5433, AFS 06615 A2-A3, AFS 06615 B3-B4.
Archivist's note: Side 2 has not yet been digitized.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: LWO 5103. Side 2 has not yet been digitized. See SR532 for some of the same songs.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Recordings for which there is minimal or no available information, or the content is not readily organized elsewhere in the sound recording series.
Archivist's note: Compilation of blues recordings by various artists.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times. Right channel only from 00:07:20 to 00:07:48.
See the note for SR563.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Vendor's digitization note: The programs are distorted at times, and there is phasing from the tape. Mold was cleaned from the tape prior to digitization.
Performances by an unidentified singer accompanied by guitar. Tape box spine: #2. Collector's original ID number: 83.
Logger's note: Notes from the original tape box: Song: "I don't want to be buried." First thirty seconds lost. Sermon and Songs.
Vendor's digitization note: There is significant hum from the tape.
Archivist's note: The tape includes two takes of the 1970 song, "Fire and Rain," performed by an unidentified female vocalist.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Logger's note: A group of unidentified men speak about country blues and urban blues.
Logger's note: Two free jazz pieces. The musicians are not identified.
The title was supplied by the logger.
The title was supplied by the logger.
The title was supplied by the logger.
Logger's note: The band sounds like an "old fashioned string band," and includes a fiddle and guitar. The vocalists are not identified. The first lines of the songs with vocal are not intelligible.
Archivist's note: The title was supplied by the archivist. SR716, SR720, and SR721, feature the same singers, and SR716 and SR720 have at least one song in common. SR725 may also feature the same singers.
Logger's note: An unidentified man and an unidentified woman sing four songs. Someone plays acoustic guitar accompaniment.
See the archivist's note for SR716.
The title was supplied by the archivist. See the note for SR716.
See the archivist's note for SR716.
Logger's note: An unidentified man and an unidentified woman perform folk songs. All songs are accompanied by a solo guitar.
Logger's note: An unidentified female singer performs eight songs before live audience. She [probably] accompanies herself on guitar. The timeline for Side 2 (a duplicate of Side 1) is slightly different.
LC engineer's note: The tape appears to have been recorded on a four-track (multitrack) machine due to the way the tracks are organized. As a result all files from this tape were from one side of the tape, as opposed to a true quarter-track tape, which would need to be flipped to play back the other side. Both files contain the same content; it is not a mistake in the transfer.
An unidentified jazz trio plays four tunes. The band is composed of saxophone, guitar and bass.
LC engineer's note: Audio is on three tracks, all recorded in the same direction. The track layout is very unusual and needed to be played on a four-track machine to capture the audio.
Archivist's note: Two of the files are home recordings of Pete Welding and a very young Raymond Welding (his son; born 1965). The other is a unknown recording, possibly a demo, that sounds mid to late 1960s in style.
The title was supplied by the archivist.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Title supplied by the logger.
Logger's note: A young girl tells a story she makes up as she speaks. She talks about two people discussing what they want to do. She talks about something called a "thumpas." She talks a lot about shooting guns.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Logger's note: Jazz tunes, dubbed from commercial records. Except for the last cut on Side 1, none of the musicians or tunes are identified. The first 12 tunes on Side 1 feature clarinet and piano, sometimes with bass, drums, or percussion. The next three are by an unidentified Dixieland band. The final cut is by Jazz of Storyville with Wild Bill Davidson, playing "The Jazz Band Ball." On Side 2, the instruments feature clarinet and piano, sometimes with bass, drums or percussion.
Title supplied by the archivist. Side 1 and the first two songs of Side 2 are dubbed from a copy of the AC/DC album, Let There Be Rock (1977). The balance of songs are by various bands.
Dubs from a commercial recording of an unidentified female blues singer with a band. Electric guitar playing is featured. Some of the lyrics are difficult to understand, so none of the songs could be identified.
Title supplied by the archivist.
A jazz band plays unidentified tunes. The band is composed of saxophone, piano, drums and bass. A second sax player is invited to join the band for the fifth tune. There is applause throughout the SR, so the recording was made before a live audience.
Archivist's note: Title supplied by the archivist. The tape also includes a music-comedy sketch from a radio broadcast (at the end of Side 1).
Archivist's note: Title supplied by the archivist. The recordings feature clarinet, piano, standup bass, and drums. No vocals.
The title was supplied by the archivist.
Title supplied by the archivist. Side 1 features an ensemble includes trumpet (as the featured instrument), standup bass, piano, and drums. Side 2 includes dubbed recordings by Chet Baker, from the album Chet Baker Sings (1954).
Archivist's note: Dubbed from a disc, possibly a 78 rpm sound recording.
Title supplied by the archivist.
LC engineer's note: The tape was recorded in the half track stereo format, but was also recorded on a four-track stereo recorder in four-track mono format which results in a confusing number of tracks for this tape, some of which have bleed through and bad crosstalk from the mix of the two formats. However, aside from the main file which is unique content, no other files were made from the remaining contents because they are all incomplete snatches of commercial recordings which hold no value even for research.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Vendor's digitization note: The program has audio hiss and print-through from the source tape.
Two hymns sung by an unidentified chorus, with musical accompaniment: "What a Friend We Have in Jesus" and "In the Garden."
Vendor's digitization note: The program has distortion and hiss from the source tape.
Title supplied by the archivist.
Gospel-rock vocal group, with musical accompaniment.
Archivist's note: The title was supplied by the archivist. The recordings seem to be dubs of commercial recordings.
The tape box indicates this should be a dub of "Comedy from the Second City" (Mercury - OCS 6201), released in 1961. Instead, this recording includes dubs (not all in order) from The Mamas and the Papas LP.
Vendor's digitization note: The program is distorted at times.
Archivist's note: An unidentified woman sings a Christian pop song, with a voice reminiscent of an early-career Olivia Newton-John.
LC engineer's note: The contents and artists listed on the box and inner box flap do not match the recording on the tape. The actual recording is of an unidentified singer with guitar accompaniment; recording date unknown. Multiple partial takes of the two songs. The last tune is a remnant of a Pete Robinson session as noted on the inner box flap.
The title was supplied by the archivist.
LC engineer's note: This is almost certainly the original master session tape for the first album recorded by Dion and The Belmonts. Some speaking can be heard, but no singing.
4 photographs. Folder includes manuscript items, one affixed to the verso of a photo.
10 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 contact sheet (received with one frame clipped out) and a glassine photo development lab sleeve for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
12 photographs (taken on Maxwell Street, Chicago) and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
6 photographs (taken at the flea market, on Maxwell Street, Chicago) and a glassine photo development lab sleeve for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph taken on Maxwell Street, Chicago. Brother Amos was a religious singer and member of Jimmy Brewer's group.
1 photograph.
20 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph and 1 contact sheet. Photos taken on Maxwell Street, Chicago, of the Chicago String Band Carl Martin, John Wrencher, Johnny Young, John Lee Granderson), individually and as a group. The contact sheet originally had 12 frames; two were cut out before the sheet arrived at AFC. The folder includes a photocopy of the original folder plus an original glassine envelope for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
7 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
10 photographs and an envelope with handwritten notes. The photo borders are lab-stamped with the date February 1962.
1 photograph, which originally accompanied materials in box-folder 1/25.
4 contact sheets, with a single frame cut out from one of them (before it arrived at AFC). 7 glassine envelopes for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph, plus a photocopy of the original folder.
1 photograph.
1 photograph and 1 envelope. The photo was taken on either October 19 or October 25. The event (for both dates) was the American Negro Blues Festival, held at Fairfield Halls, Croydon, England.
4 photographs and 1 envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
27 photos and 3 contact sheets (two contact sheets have frames cut out), 2 photo development lab envelopes, and 4 glassine envelopes for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
19 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. The photographs were taken on Maxwell Street, Chicago. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 envelope with handwritten information. The black-and-white images (see Box 28) were taken at the Settlement School.
6 photographs and 2 envelopes (one from a photo development lab). See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
11 photographs, 1 contact sheet, and 1 glassine envelope for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
6 photographs and a photo development lab envelope.
6 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph. Photo credit: Andrew A. Hanson. The photograph originally accompanied materials in box-folder 2/17.
30 photographs, plus two envelopes (one from a photo development lab). See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
Photocopies of the original slide container. See Box 29 for color slides.
3 photos are dated March 1963 and seven photos are dated October 1963. The photographic print is inkjet or laser print on glossy stock paper, and is dated October 1963. The folder also includes an envelope with handwritten information.
The contact sheet is incomplete; 6 frames were removed before the collection came to the American Folklife Center. The folder includes a glassine envelope with handwritten information. See Box 28 for one black-and-white negative.
3 photographs, a glassine envelope for negative strips, and a sheet of paper with handwritten notes regarding dimensions and publication layout. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
8 photographs and an envelope with typed and handwritten information.
2 photographs. Photo credit for both: Chris Strachwitz.
1 photograph. The folder includes a glassine envelope for negative strips, although there were no negatives in this folder.
9 photographs and an envelope with handwritten and typed information. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph.
2 photographs; one with Sister Mabel Washington. Originally housed with materials in box-folder 3/10.
2 contact sheets and 2 glassine envelopes for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
5 photographs and a development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
12 photographs and a development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph.
33 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
15 photographs (taken on Maxwell Street, Chicago) and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
3 photographs and a glassine envelope for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
26 photographs, 3 glassine envelopes for negatives, and a paper envelope. See Box 28 for the black-and-white negatives and Box 29 for the color slides.
5 photographs, 3 envelopes (one is a development lab envelop), and a sheet of paper used for pre-publication formatting marks. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
Archivist's note: Elmon Mickle recorded variously under the names Drifting Slim and also Model T Slim.
16 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
1 photograph and an envelope with Nighthawk's name and a number.
2 photographs. Harry Oster is given photo credit for the smaller image. One photo was relocated from box-folder 13/8
19 photographs (taken at Watts Towers, Los Angeles) and a photo development lab envelope. The date appears on the borders of the photos. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
11 photographs and 2 envelopes, one from a photo development lab. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
3 photographs, 2 glassine envelopes for negatives, and photocopies of the boxes that contained the slides. While the band is identified in the collection as Quicksilver, the band's full name in 1968 was Quicksilver Messenger Service. Quicksilver was the commonly-used, shortened form of the name. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives and box 29 for color slides.
1 photograph.
10 photographs and an envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
8 photographs, relocated from box-folder 9/10.
3 photographs and 2 glassine envelopes for negatives. The date is ink-stamped on the glassine negative sleeves. See Box 29 for black-and-white negatives.
2 photographs.
15 photographs (one is a frame cut from a contact sheet not with the collection) and photocopies of the slide boxes. See box-folder 20/11 for an oversized photo of Shines, Box 28 for black-and-white negatives, and Box 29 for color slides.
1 photograph.
3 photographs; none including Smith himself. These were relocated from box-folder 6/13.
3 photographs (1 frame from a contact sheet was cut out prior to its arrival at AFC), 2 glassine envelopes for negatives, and 1 sheet of paper with layout instructions.
1 photograph.
2 photographs. Photo credit (both images): David Evans.
1 photograph and an envelope with handwritten notes. The date on the photo is inconsistent with the era of the clothing in the photos, which would seem to be circa 1930s.
4 photographs and 3 envelopes (including a photo development lab envelope). The envelopes have handwritten and typed notes. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
7 photographs, relocated from box-folder 7/4.
7 photographs.
5 photographs; 4 have two images printed on each sheet, for a total of 9 images. These photographs arrived at AFC in the same folder as the Pete Robinson photographs.
7 photographs, relocated from box-folder 7/17.
1 photograph.
58 photographs, 1 photo development lab envelope, and 6 glassine envelopes for negatives. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
20 photographs and 1 envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
4 photographs and 2 envelopes (one from a photo development lab). See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
8 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
5 photographs (two are printed on the same sheet) and 1 piece of paper with layout information about a photo.
17 photographs, 4 glassine envelopes for negatives, and 2 envelopes. The photographic print is inkjet or laser print on glossy stock paper. Two contact sheets are a single strip of photos each, cut from larger contact sheets. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
2 photographs and a glassine envelope from a photo development lab. One of the contact sheets is missing 3 images, cut out and removed prior to the collection's arrival at the American Folklife Center. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
47 photographs and a photo development lab envelope. Photos of musicians, with some uncertainty as to the identity of some of them. They may include Lawrence "Smokey Joe" Henry, Henry Brown, and Elijah Brown. The folder title is original to this group of photos. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
2 original pages and two photocopied pages. No photographs in this folder. See Box 28 for black-and-white copy negatives.
8 photographs, 12 glassine envelopes, and 1 manuscript page with photo layout information. 5 images are clipped from one or more larger contact sheets. See Box 28 for black-and-white copy negatives.
13 photographs. The photo credit for at least 4 images is assigned to Ray Flerlage. The photos are of musicians who released commercial recordings on Testament Records. Relocated from 9/9.
10 photographs.
2 photographs of prisoners at Angola Prison.
The folder also includes 5 envelopes (4 envelopes are from photo development labs). See Box 28 for black-and-white copy negatives and Box 29 for color negatives.
12 photocopies of slide containers and 2 envelopes. See Box 28 for black-and-white copy negatives and Box 29 for color negatives.
19 photographs. One photo is credited to R. Howard. See Box 28 for black-and-white copy negatives and Box 29 for color negatives.
Some frames (not included in the count) were clipped from the contact sheets before the photos arrived at the American Folklife Center.
2 photographs.
3 photographs.
11 photographs. See Box 28 for black-and-white negatives.
45 photographs, 4 paper envelopes, and 15 glassine envelopes. Some photos are credited to Ray Flerlage. A drawing was relocated to box-folder 25/7.
20 photographs, 4 paper envelopes, and 1 glassine envelope. Photo credits include Frank Scott and Ted Williams.
4 photographs. The photographic print and 1 photo are credited to Don Schlitten. The other two photos are credited to Peter Amft.
13 photographs. Includes photos credited to Frank Scott and other photos credited to Ray Flerlage. Sketches have been relocated to box-folder 25/7.
3 photographs. According to the original folder these photos were taken by Brad Barrett, but the photo credit on the photo reverse is for Ray Flerlage. Because of this, the archivist kept these photos grouped together.
3 photographs.
2 photographs.
See box-folder 21/2 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/3 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/4 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/5 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/8 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/9 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/10 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/13 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/17 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/18 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/19 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/20 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/21 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/22 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/24 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/26 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/29 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/30 for black-and-white prints.
There are 20 complete negatives and possibly two or more partial negatives, incautiously trimmed prior to their arrival at AFC. See box-folder 21/34 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/37 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/38 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/39 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/1 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/2 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/3 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/4 for the black-and-white prints, and Box 29 for the color slides.
See box-folder 22/5 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/6 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/9 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/10 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/11 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/13 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/15 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/17 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/1 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/7-8 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/9 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/10 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/11 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/13 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/14 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/15 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/16 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 23/17 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 24/1, 24/2, and 24/3 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 24/7 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 21/27 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/4 for the black-and-white prints, and Box 28 for the black-and-white negatives.
See box-folder 22/11 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 22/17 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 24/2 and 24/3 for black-and-white prints.
See box-folder 24/7 for black-and-white prints.
Drawing by Pete Welding; originally housed in box-folder 25/3. Probably pencil on paper.
Drawing by Pete Welding; originally housed in box-folder 25/3. Probably pencil on paper.
Drawing by Hank Newmark; originally housed in box-folder 24/8. Probably pencil on paper.
The Nevada Folklife Archive spans the years 1980 to 2017. The collection consists of field work conducted by folklorists employed by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program to document diverse communities and traditions across the state of Nevada.
Tasked with documenting various aspects of life and culture in Nevada, folklorists employed by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program collected the extensive sound recordings, photographs, transcripts, and field notes retained in this collection. The collection includes documentation of occupational folklife, including ranching, mining, railroad work, nuclear plants, and the entertainment industry; expressive traditions, including fiddling contests, cowboy poetry, leatherwork, glassblowing, basketry, quilting, music, and dance; and examples of vernacular architecture on ranches. Interviews and documentation highlight African American, Mormon, Paiute, Shoshone, Basque, Latinx, Japanese American, Thai American, South Asian American, Scottish American, and Italian American communities and traditions across Nevada. A large portion of the collection also documents programs and events sponsored by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program, including the Las Vegas Folklife Festival, the Sierra Folklife Festival, and the Folk Arts Apprenticeship. In addition to field work documentation, the collection includes correspondence relating to the administration of the Folklife Program, publications from the Folklife Program, and program files relating to the production of the Las Vegas Folklife Festival and the Sierra Folklife Festival.
Scope and content: Field notes collected by folklorists documenting Nevada folklife in a variety of projects and surveys, including the Folklife Apprenticeship Program, the Lander County Survey, the Douglas County Survey, the Reno Folk Arts Survey, and the Las Vegas Folk Arts Survey.
Scope and content: Logs containing item level information about audio and visual content contained in the collection.
Scope and content: Incoming and outgoing correspondence related to the administration of the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program and the Nevada Folklife Archive.
Scope and content: Correspondence, flyers, brochures, and contracts related to the production of the Las Vegas Folklife Festival and the Sierra Folklife Festival. Also includes oversize posters related to these and other programs.
Scope and content: Publications produced by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program.
Scope and content: Transcripts of interviews conducted by folklorists employed by the Nevada Arts Council Folklife Program.
Scope and content: Sound recordings on cassette tapes and audio reels of interviews, music, and events.
Scope and content: Color slides of events, art, performances, vernacular architecture, and occupational folklife. The slides also document material from the Folklife Apprenticeship as well as various folklife festivals across Nevada. Note that the following slide groupings are missing: S-2000-011 through S-2000-019, S-2002-039, S-2002-061 through S-2002-074, S-2003-001 through S-2003-024, S-2003-042 through S-2003-049; S-2003-072 through S-2003-100, and S-2004-021 through S-2004-050.
Scope and content: Black-and-white negatives of events, art, performances, vernacular architecture, and occupational folklife. Negatives also document the Folklife Apprenticeship Program and various folklife festivals across Nevada.
Scope and content: Black-and-white contact sheets from negatives. Also includes color prints of a quilting retreat with no associated negatives.
Scope and content: Digital photographs from the beginning of the Nevada Folklife Archive's transition from analog to digital photography.
Juan B. Rael Collection comprises multi-format ethnographic field documentation of religious and secular music of Spanish-speaking residents of rural Northern New Mexico and Southern Colorado. It contains correspondence, administrative materials, recording logs, song transcriptions and translations, and materials generated in the process of creating the online presentation.
In 1940, Juan Bautista Rael of Stanford University, a native of Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico, used disc recording equipment supplied by the Archive of American Folk Song (now the Archive of Folk Culture, American Folklife Center) to document alabados (hymns), folk drama, wedding songs, and dance tunes in Alamosa, Manassa, and Antonito, Colorado, and in Cerro and Arroyo Hondo, New Mexico. These efforts resulted in approximately 650 pages of print material including correspondence, recording logs, song text transcriptions, excerpts from publications, and 8 hours of audio recordings on 36 12-inch acetate-on-aluminum recording discs. A later effort added one graphic image: Rael interviewing Manuela "Mela" Martínez of Taos, New Mexico, circa 1930, and a corresponding negative. In the process of digitizing the collection for online presentation, materials including six computer diskettes containing digitized LP liner notes, book excerpts, journal articles, as well as digitized framing text, and one CD-ROM with digitized images were generated.
Correspondence with Enrique R. Lamadrid regarding biographical details of Juan B. Rael
Stanford University resolution on the occasion of Rael's death
"Literary Life of Juan B. Rael," unpublished paper written by Althea N. Oakeley, the great granddaughter of Rael's eldest brother for a college course
Homepage Text
About the Collection Text
Essays in English
Juan Bautista Rael, 1900-1993: Pioneer Hispano Folklorist
Nuevo Mexicanos of the Upper Rio Grande: Culture, History, and Society
La Música Nuevo Mexicana: Religious and Secular Music from the Juan B. Rael Collection
Hispano Folk Theater in New Mexico
Essays in Spanish Juan Bautista Rael, 1900-1993: Folklorista Hispano
Los Nuevo Mexicanos del Río Grande del Norte: Cultura, Historia y Sociedad
La Música Nuevo Mexicana: Tradiciones Religiosas y Seculares de la Colección de Juan B. Rael
El Teatro Popular Hispano de Nuevo México
Glossary
Bibliography
Acknowledgments
How to order audio and photographic reproductions
Copyright and other restrictions
The fifteen thousand or so items contained in the 152 boxes of the Library of Congress collection include blueprints and manufactures' information of early French and foreign aircraft and dirigibles, reports of accidents involving flyers and balloonists, aerial photographs from World War I, and a series of French cartoons from the period 1909 - 1912 related to aviation. The collection also contains hundreds of photographs of early aviators and designers, including pictures of Charles Lindbergh and his wife Anne Morrow being feted in Paris during their European trip of 1933. A large number of L'Aerophile images appeared in the National Air and Space Museum's major exhibition in 2003 celebrating the centennial of the Wright brothers' first flight, titled the Wright Brothers & the Invention of the Aerial Age.
Early photographs, handbooks, catalogs, newspaper articles, blueprints, intelligence reports, and other publications relating to the early years of aviation, including balloon flight, airplanes and aviators.
Contains guides, studies, drawings, publicity, books, and albums relating to early aviation companies and aviation-related events.
Photographs, drawings, and charts pertaining to early aviation in the first half of the twentieth century.
Aircraft information arranged by country of origin and specific type of aircraft.
Information on companies that produced aircraft motors and engine.
Photographs and publications on aviators and aircraft designers.
The Herold J. Wiens Collection consists of pen and ink drawings, pencil sketches, facsimiles, and photographs of aerial views showing all or part of China during the period of World War II. The collection also consists of technical drawing equipment, notes, charts, atlases, some books, personal folders, letters, correspondence, and other miscellaneous items. Covers China, Marshall Islands (1951-1952), and parts of Asia. On pilot maps shows graphic flight line index.
Consists of relief models (terrasculptures), samples of book cover prints, negatives, page mock ups, sets of index cards that contain information on print runs, samples of catalogs, and an obituary of C.S. Hammond.
Consists of 51 physical relief models called "terrasculptures." Created in the late 1960s by Ernst Hofmann, a long-time head of cartographic design at Hammond, the terrasculptures are thin aluminum sheets which have been manually embossed to simulate the earth's surface in three-dimensional form. By raising the surface of the aluminum sheets to depict elevated features, or depressing the sheets to reflect such features as rivers and sea floor depths, these models accurately represent relief and topography. Color can be applied to the models to reflect the earth's natural vegetation. Hofmann's relief models reveal the artistic skills that are traditionally a major component of mapmaking. Once the relief sculptures were completed, they were photographed to provide the base shaded relief found on the Hammond maps, creating the impression that the relief actually rises from the printed page. Using the same aluminum modeling technique, Hofmann also created an 18-inch diameter globe, called the "terrasphere."
Within eight folders are samples of materials illustrate and document all the basic elements of map compilation, design, construction and printing. Map artwork contained in the collection includes works drafted using pen and ink, stick-up lettering, and a scribing technique that creates the desired image by removing an opaque coating from a sheet of plastic film. Cartographic design features include examples of line work, symbolization and lettering. The printing of maps and atlases is represented in numerous printing plates, color separations, photographs of original artwork and film negatives. Also included are plates of book covers and catalogs, as well as, an obituary of C.S. Hammond.
Among the non-cartographic materials in the collection is a file of some 12,000 4-by-6-inch cards that represent part of Hammond's printing history from the early 1900s to the mid-1990s. This is primarily a record of the publications that Hammond produced for other companies. The basic data contained in these records changed over time but usually included such information as the customer's name, type of material printed, and number of copies printed, which could range from a few hundred to hundreds of thousands of copies.
Two battle maps annotated in grease pencil.
One annotated map.
Consists of 24 maps and administrative atlas of South Vietnam from 1972 to 1987.
Includes 14 maps of North and South Vietnam, including maps of Hanoi and Saigon published between 1964 and 1971.
Consists of 33 maps of Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, South Vietnam, and Indochina as a whole from 1965 to 1972 published by U.S. Army Map service, U.S. Army, 29th Engineer Battalion, Central Intelligence Agency, and Defense Mapping Agency.
The collection consists of World War I-era maps and charts; some items with annotations.
Collection of five maps from World War I. One railroad map of France, nautical charts, and a desclassified British map of minefields in the North Sea. Some items are annotated.
The collection consists of 36-page booklet that describes the process of aerial reconnaissance and mapping, 15 aerial photographs, and 20 maps.
36-page booklet describes the duties of the pilots and the photo lab capabilities.
15 aerial photographs of France and Germany.
Photographs used to help create maps.
Crozier: "All maps were compiled from aerial photos created by the 30th photo reeonnaisanoe squadron flying P-38s Lightning. The scale depends on the height in which the sortie took place. Cameras ranged from 24 inch for mappinq to 36-40 inch for larqe scale. Shutter speads were extremely fast in their time- up to 1/800 second."
Five maps showing roads and railroads in Normandy and adjacent areas.
Towns and cities indicate population size.
Two captured German maps.
Two celebratory maps.
The collection consists of 9 maps.
9 maps of Western Europe collected by Dreyer.
The collection includes a map from World War II that depicts the military situation in China, maps of Guangxi Province, and various tourist maps. Some maps have annotations on the reverse in English and French and other maps are in Chinese.
The Francis R. Valeo Map collection spans the years 1954-1980, with the bulk of the materials concentrated in the period 1973-1974. Coverage consists primarily of East Asia, specifically Japan, Hong Kong, and Macau
The collection contains 23 annotated flak maps of Western Europe that date from July 1944 to April 1945. Additional war records include five of Solomon Mullin's flight plans, five documents related to his military service, and a receipt of donation, which dates from 1999.
Maps annotated to show routes over Western Europe (England, France, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, etc.) taken by the 385th Bombardment Group. Shaded areas depict the locations and intensity of German anti-aircraft fire.
Solomon Mullin's flight records.
List of military awards received by Solomon Mullin, including the Distinguished Flying Cross.
Receipt of donation.
Maps and data concerning railroad traffic density, tables on ton miles, freight density and traffic distribution, and other railway related tables and calculations. The materials date between 1917 and 1958. They cover railroads in the United States.
The collection consists of 32 pictorial, tourtist, and road maps published between 1942 and 1964. The materials depict the moon and various locations within the United States. Several of these maps were designed for classroom instruction. Publishers include Armour and Company, General Drafting Company, Esso Standard Oil Company, among others.
Robert R. Coles, Hayden Planetarium.
James Gordon Irving, Illustrator.
Amoco Oil Guide.
Verso: Constellations of spring, summer, autumn and winter.
C.S Hammond and Co.
Esso Standard Oil Company.
Hammond Incorporated.
Includes place names and text.
Relief shown by shading.
Date estimated.
Esso Standard Oil Company.
Hammond Incorporated.
With 9 inset views of various stages of the trip to the Moon, photographed by NASA.
Includes place names and text.
Relief shown by shading.
Date estimated.
Pan-American Coffee Bureau.
"Coffee... Is the major commodity in the Inter-American trade."
Pictorial map.
General Drafting Company.
Standard Oil Company.
Pictorial depictions of oil uses for each state.
Three inset maps at top showing producing states, pipelines, and refineries.
The verso has text on the contributions of the oil industry to the American economy and standard of living.
Armour & Company.
"The greatness of the United States is founded on Agriculture."
Bottom left: "This map shows you where various foods are produced in quantities large enough to supply other regions as well as local needs."
Verso: History of the American Food Industry.
With text and photographs.
Rand McNally, Chicago.
McGill-Warner Co.
1:6,336,000.
Three maps on one sheet. Main map shows the route of the Great Northern Railway, Burlington Lines, Main Connection, other railroads, and steamship lines into US ports. The two inset maps show Great Northern Railway and steamship lines to Asia, and steamship line connections to Alaska.
Indiana Toll Road Commission.
1:2,000,000.
Shows turnpikes in eastern states connecting with Indiana Toll Road.
Includes information and toll road indexes.
Verso: three maps. Linkin the East and West: The Indiana Toll Road, Turnpike Routes to the New York World's Fair, and World's Fair and Vicinity.
American Forest Industries.
Shows forests in the United States.
Drawings of various tree types surround map.
Soltesz.
Esso Standard Oil Compnay.
Map includes insets of Alaska and Hawaii. Relief shown by shading.
Verso: pictorial road map of Atlantic and Gulf states with selected points of interest, descriptive list with additional points of interest.
Includes text: "Treasuries of Americana" and "Produced for teacher's classroom use."
General Drafting Company.
Standard Oil Company.
Map of life in colonial Americas, shows state boundaries, historical notes, views of colonial life and settlements.
Map of the westward expansion of the United states showing historical territories, major cities, table of states and their population, text panels, etc.
Hanna, Kohn, and Lively.
The Basic Social Studies Program: Scott, Foresman and Company.
Stars in Our Flag.
Recto: color brochure.
Verso: pictorial map "The Union Pacific West".
Ohio Turnpike Commission.
Includes mileage table and toll schedule for the Ohio Turnpike.
Verso: "Ohio Points of Interest".
New Mexico State Tourist Bureau.
Wilfred Stedman.
Pictorial map howing explorer routes, old trails, illustrations of explorers, animals, army posts, pueblos, state and national monuments, drainage, and other popular places of interest.
Verso: information about explorers and trails.
Illinois State Toll Highway Commission.
Indicates all speed regulations/limits at the time for cars, buses, and trucks.
Pictorial map.
Verso: See all of Hawaii Island State of Enchantment.
Hawaiian Airlines.
Pictorial map of Hawaiian Islands.
Includes mileage chart.
Going Places See Things by the Gray Line.
Tourist map.
Trips operated daily by Hawaiian Cruises, Ltd. Reservations through any travel agent.
Brochure.
Hersey Park brochure and map.
Longwood Gardens brochure and map.
Pictorial map.
Compliments of Motel l'Abitation.
Tourist map.
Th. F. Mathesy, Ph. D.
The York Bank and Trust Company.
Esso Standard.
Rand McNally.
Texaco, Inc.
Consists of some 4162 items related to Heezen and Tharp's mapping of the Pacific Ocean floor.
Groups 01 - 23
749 items
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ South and 68˚ to 85˚ West. Atlantis Cruise 221. Track of research vessel 'Horizon', Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 'Shellback' Expedition 1952.
a. Negative print. b. From 18˚ North to 20˚ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West. Monaco scale.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ North to 20˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West. Monaco scale.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 47˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West. Monaco scale.
a. Negative print
a. Positive print
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 28˚ 20" to 29˚ 10" North and 160˚ to 161˚ East. Chart 1, for the Deep Sea Drilling Project proposed site 20-2. Aug 1-3 1971.
a. Graph paper
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 63˚ North and 120˚ West to 155˚ East. Tracks of the Robert Conrad 11-10.
a. Ozalid. b. From 32˚ to 34˚ North and 153˚ 30" to 154˚ 30" East. Surveyed June 3-6, 1969. Shows location of cores, camera lowerings and heat flow stations.
a. Film negative b. From 17˚ to 18˚ North and 47˚ to 50˚ West. Nov 8,9 1969. Covers U.S. Navy Index 0504N.
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ to 21˚ South. 24 June.
a. Tracing paper b. From 4˚ to 6˚ North and 130˚ to 132˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 10˚ to 12˚ North and 141˚ to 143˚ East. U.S. Navy Index 2203N
a. Tracing paper b. From 8˚ to 10˚ North and 162˚ 50" to 164˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 20˚ South and 170˚ West to 130˚ East. Vema 19, 21, 24, 28, 32, and Robert Conrad 10-13, 17. 1:10,000,000
a. Frosted acetate b. 1:10,000,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 138˚ to 141˚ East. 1 of 11. 18 Sep 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 140˚ to 148˚ East. 2 of 11. 21 Sep 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 147˚ to 153˚ East. 3 of 11. 25 Sep 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 152˚ to 156˚ East. 4 of 11. 1 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 155˚ to 162˚ East. 5 of 11. 3 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 162˚ to 166˚ East. 6 of 11. 5 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 165˚ to 168˚ East. 7 of 11. 6,7, and 8 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 168˚ to 169˚ East. 8 of 11. 9 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 168˚ to 169˚ East. 9 of 11. 10, 11 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 168˚ to 177˚ East. 10 of 11. 12-14 Oct 1975.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 176˚ to 179˚ East. 11 of 11. 15 Oct 1975.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 176˚ to 186˚ East. Areas 41 and 46. Covers 1903S and 1904S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 1˚ 30" to 3˚ South and 143˚ 30" to 144˚ 30" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2201S. Track No. 259/08.
a. Ozalid. b. From 7˚ 30" to 9˚ North and 143˚ to 145˚ East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2202N. Track No. 198/11.
a. Ozalid. b. From 6˚ to 7˚ 30" North and 143˚ to 145˚ East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2202N. Track No. 198/16
a. Ozalid. b. From 16˚ 30" to 7˚ 30" North and 136˚ to 137˚ East. Nov 1964. Track No. 167/01
a. Ozalid. b. From 16˚ 30" to 17˚ North and 137˚ to 138˚ 30" East. Nov 1964. Track No. 167/02.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ 30" to 16˚ 30" North and 137˚ 30" to 139˚ East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track No. 167/07.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 16˚ 30" North and 139˚ to 141˚ East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N and 2303N. Track No. 167/08.
a. Ozalid. b. From 14˚ to 15˚ North and 141˚ to 143˚ East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track No. 167/14.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 14˚ 30" North and 142˚ to 143˚ 30" East. Nov 1964. Track Nos. 167/14 and 167/15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 14˚ North and 143˚ to 144˚ 30" East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track Nos. 167/15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ 40" North and 143˚ 30" to 144˚ 30" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track Nos. 167/15 and 167/20.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ 30" to 12˚ North and 143˚ 30" to 144˚ 30" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track Nos. 198/01.
a. Ozalid. b. From 9˚ to 10˚ 30" North and 143˚ 30" to 144˚ 30" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N. Track Nos. 198/06.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 20" to 13˚ 30" North and 144˚ 20" to 144˚ 40" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 20" to 13˚ 40" North and 144˚ 20" to 144˚ 50" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 20" to 13˚ 40" North and 144˚ 20" to 144˚ 50" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 13˚ 33" North and 144˚ 45" to 144˚ 49" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 13˚ 33" North and 144˚ 45" to 144˚ 49" East. Dec 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2203N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 18˚ North and 134˚ 30" to 136˚ East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2304N. Track Nos. 136/20, 137/16, 166/05, and 167/01.
a. Ozalid. b. From 19˚ 30" to 20˚ North and 123˚ to 125˚ East. Nov 1964. U.S. Navy Index 2404N. Track No. 135/15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Tracks by the U.S.S. Glacier, Arnco and Adisto.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 15˚ North to 20˚ South and 80˚ to 125˚ West. 1 of 2.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 42˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Sheet 5 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 42˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Sheet 5 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 6 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 6 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 6 of 21.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 8 of 21.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Sheet 9 of 21. Special track chart No. 1, 2 and 4.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Sheet 10 of 21. Special track chart No. 4.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 160˚ West. Sheet 11 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 11 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 11 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 50˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East
a. Frosted acetate b. Drill sites 44, 45 - 59 and 60. Reprinted in the Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, Vol. 6, 1970 by courtesy of the Geological Society of America.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Track from the Thomas Washington from Hawaii to Japan.
a. Film negative b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 159˚ to 179˚ East. Vicinity of Campbell Island.
a. Film negative b. From 25˚ to 45˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Film negative b. Monaco scale. Made 24 Jan 1975
a. Film negative b. From 35˚ North to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ to 35˚ North and 140˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 35˚ to 63˚ South and 40˚ to 80˚ West.
a. Tracing aper b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 60˚ North to 45˚ South and 148˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 12˚ to 23˚ North and 109˚ to 121˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 25˚ North to 35˚ South and 100˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 25˚ North to 35˚ South and 100˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 120˚ to 155˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 135˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 15˚ North to 10˚ South and 165˚ to 180˚ East. Map 6, North.
a. Positive print b. From 11˚ to 50˚ South and 165˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 20˚ to 60˚ South and 160˚ East to 120˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 20˚ to 60˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 60˚ to 79˚ South and 160˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 105˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 63˚ North to 10˚ South and 100˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 11˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 45˚ to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 170˚ West. Plotted over U.S. Navy Index grid.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Pacific ocean northwest sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. Pacific Northwest sheet
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ North to 30˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Tracks from Snellius, AUS MS, Downwind, Vema 18, USMS and Capricorn. On control map 2/10/65 - DCJ. Howard Foster.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Pacific northeast sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Pacific northeast sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Pacific northeast sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Pacific southwest sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Expedition - Jan 1961.
a. Acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Pacific southwest sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Pacific southwest sheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Arned - 2/11/61, Adisto - 11/20/60
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Eltanin 19-22, Conrad 8 and 9.
a. Ozalid. b. From 8˚ to 28˚ South and 110˚ to 130˚ East. Note: "Hi Gang. Get this here map reduced to GEBCO scale and add to the northwest Australian margin. Thank you, troops. Hang in there! Alan Lowrie."
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 150˚ West to 110˚ East. Plotted on Physiographic Diagram of the Western Pacific Ocean.
a. Tracing paper b. From 0˚ to 47˚ South and 170˚ East to 60˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 72˚ South and 20˚ to 110˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 55˚ North and 105˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 60˚ North and 100˚ to 175˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 50˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 125˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 5˚ to 35˚ South and 170˚ West to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ North to 8˚ South and 67˚ to 97˚ West. Sheet I
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ North to 8˚ South and 67˚ to 97˚ West. Sheet II
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 39˚ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West. Sheet III.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 39˚ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West. Sheet IV.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ 30" to 13˚ 30" North and 134˚ to 145˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 150˚ to 160˚ West and 15˚ to 32˚ North. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 165˚ to 172˚ West and 10˚ to 35˚ North. Rolled item. b. From 150˚ to 160˚ West and 15˚ to 32˚ North. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Rolled item.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 70˚ South and 90˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 70˚ South and 15˚ West to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 70˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 70˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 10˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 10˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 70˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 70˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 50˚ South and 170˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Film positive b. From 30˚ to 50˚ South and 170˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ South and 170˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 35˚ to 65˚ South and 170˚ West to 140˚ East.
a. Film positive b. From 35˚ to 65˚ South and 170˚ West to 140˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 60˚ to 80˚ South and 170˚ West to 140˚ East.
a. Film positive b. From 60˚ to 80˚ South and 170˚ West to 140˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Film positive b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 50˚ South and 70˚ West to 140˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 155˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 174˚ to 179˚ East. Sheet 1, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 178˚ East to 178˚ West. Sheet 2, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 172˚ to 178˚ West. Sheet 3, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 170˚ to 174˚ West. Sheet 4, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 165˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 5, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 161˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet 6, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 160˚ to 165˚ West. Sheet 7, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ West. Sheet 8, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 175˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 9, Sep and Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 174˚ to 178˚ East. Sheet 10, Sep 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 175˚ to 180˚ East. Sheet 11, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 175˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 12, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Sheet 13, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 166˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 13A, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Sheet 14, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 24˚ South and 166˚ to 176˚ West. Sheet 15, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 174˚ to 177˚ West. Sheet 15A, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 24˚ South and 159˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet 16, Oct 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 24˚ South and 159˚ to 169˚ West. Sheet 17, Oct and Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 21˚ to 23˚ South and 165˚ to 168˚ West. Sheet 17A, Oct and Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 19˚ to 24˚ South and 169˚ to 179˚ West. Sheet 18, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 21˚ to 23˚ South and 172˚ to 175˚ West. Sheet 18A, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 24˚ South and 171˚ East to 179˚ West. Sheet 19, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 173˚ to 175˚ East. Sheet 20, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 173˚ to 175˚ East. Sheet 21, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 175˚ to 179˚ East. Sheet 22, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 172˚ to 175˚ East. Sheet 23, Nov 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 120˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Negative print. b. From 50˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 170˚ East. Sheet 1.
a. Negative print. b. From 50˚ to 74˚ South and 100˚ to 150˚ West. Sheet 2.
a. Negative print. b. From 50˚ to 74˚ South. Sheet 3.
a. Negative print. b. From 135˚ to 175˚ East. Sheet 1.
a. Negative print. b. From 40˚ to 69˚ South and 155˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 2.
a. Negative print. b. From 135˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 3.
a. Negative print. b. From 95˚ to 135˚ West. Sheet 4.
a. Negative print. b. From 40˚ to 69˚ South and 60˚ to 100˚ West. Sheet 5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 40˚ to 130˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 130˚ East to 140˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart #1.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 160˚ to 168˚ East. Chart #2.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 52˚ South and 157˚ to 165˚ East. Chart #3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 165˚ to 170˚ East. Chart #4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 52˚ to 55˚ South and 156˚ to 165˚ East. Chart #5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 55˚ to 58˚ South and 157˚ to 166˚ East. Chart #6.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 60˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Chart #7.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 60˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Chart #8.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 60˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Chart #9.
a. Ozalid. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 118˚ to 122˚ East. Chart #15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 41˚ to 46˚ South and 118˚ to 122˚ East. Chart #16.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 115˚ to 122˚ East. Chart #17.
a. Ozalid. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 113˚ to 117˚ East. Chart #18.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 30˚ South and 110˚ to 112˚ East. Sheet A. 11 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 30˚ South and 108˚ to 109˚ East. Sheet B. 12 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 30˚ South and 105˚ to 107˚ East. Sheet C. 13 Sep 1970
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 30˚ South and 99˚ to 101˚ East. Sheet D. 15 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 31˚ to 32˚ South and 100˚ to 101˚ East. Sheet E. 16 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 32˚ to 33˚ South and 100˚ to 102˚ East. Sheet F, area 31. 17 Sep 1970. Also from 34˚ to 35˚ South and 101˚ to 102˚ East. Sheet F, area 31. 18 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 36˚ South and 101˚ to 103˚ East. Sheet G, area 31. 19 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 37˚ South and 102˚ to 103˚ East. Sheet H, area 31. Also from 37˚ to 38˚ South and 103˚ to 104˚ East. Sheet H, area 31. 20 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 41˚ South and 104˚ to 105˚ East. Sheet I, area 31. 22 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 41˚ to 42˚ South and 104˚ to 106˚ East. Sheet J, area 31.
a. Ozalid. b. From 43˚ to 44˚ South and 105˚ to 106˚ East. Sheet K, area 22. 24 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 46˚ to 47˚ South and 107˚ to 108˚ East. Sheet M, area 23 and 24. Also from 48˚ to 49˚ South and 108˚ to 109˚ East. Sheet M, area 24 and 25.
a. Ozalid. b. From 50˚ to 57˚ South and 109˚ to 110˚ East. Sheet M, area 25. 27 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 51˚ to 52˚ South and 110˚ to 111˚ East. Sheet O, area 25. 28 Sep 1970. Also from 53˚ to 54˚ South and 111˚ to 112˚ East. Sheet O, area 26. 29 Sep 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 57˚ South and 112˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet R, area 26. 30 Sep and 8 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 58˚ South and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet S, area 26. 1 and 6 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 58˚ to 59˚ South and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet T, area 27. Also from 58˚ to 59˚ and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Area 26 and 27. 5 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 60˚ South and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet U. 2 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 60˚ to 61˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet V, area 27 and 28. Also from 55˚ to 56˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet V, area 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 55˚ to 56˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet W, area 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 54˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet X, area 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 51˚ to 52˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet Y, area 25. Also from 52˚ to 53˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet Y, area 25 and 26. 10 Oct 1970. Note: "Positions on some of these charts differ with coordinates given in the daily data sheets. Use with caution!"
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 50˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet Z, area 25. 12 and 13 Oct 1970. Also from 50˚ to 51˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet Z, area 25. 11 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 48˚ to 49˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet AA, area 24 and 25. 14 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 47˚ to 48˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet BB, area 23 and 24.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 46˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet CC, area 22. 16 Oct 1970. Also from 46˚ to 47˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet CC, area 22 and 23. 15 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 41˚ to 42˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet DD, area 31. 19 Oct 1970. Also from 43˚ to 44˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet DD, area 31. 17 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 41˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet EE, area 31. 20 Oct 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 38˚ to 39˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet FF, area 31. 21 Oct 1970. Also from 39˚ to 40˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet FF, area 31.
a. Ozalid. b. From 37˚ to 38˚ South and 108˚ to 110˚ East. Sheet II, area 31.
a. Ozalid. b. From 32˚ to 37˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 1. 20 to 22 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 2. 22 to 25 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 44˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 3. 25 to 27 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 43˚ to 47˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 4. 27 to 28 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 46˚ to 49˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 5. 28 and 29 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 47˚ to 51˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 6. 28 and 29 Nov 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 7. 29 Nov to 3 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 8. 4 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 60˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 9. 5 to 7 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 10. 7 and 8 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. Sheet 11. 9 to 12 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 64˚ to 65˚ South and 104˚ to 114˚ East. Sheet 12. 12 to 16 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 63˚ to 64˚ South and 94˚ to 104˚ East. Sheet 13. 16 to 18 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 64˚ South and 84˚ to 94˚ East. Sheet 14. 19 to 22 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 76˚ to 86˚ East. Sheet 15. 22 to 27 Dec 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 66˚ South and 74˚ to 76˚ East. Sheet 16. 28 Dec 1970 to 2 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 74˚ to 76˚ East. Sheet 17. 2 and 3 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 60˚ South and 72˚ to 75˚ East. Sheet 18. 3 and 4 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 73˚ to 75˚ East. Sheet 19. 4 and 5 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 69˚ to 72˚ East. Sheet 20. 5 to 8 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 52˚ South and 71˚ to 81˚ East. Sheet 21. 8 to 11 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 50˚ South and 79˚ to 89˚ East. Sheet 22. 11 to 13 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 92˚ to 102˚ East. Sheet 23. 13 to 15 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 100˚ to 110˚ East. Sheet 24. 15 to 17 Jan 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 36˚ South and 108˚ to 118˚ East. Sheet 25. 17 to 19 Jan 1971.
a. Tracing paper b. From 40˚ to 68˚ South and 65˚ to 105˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 35˚ to 60˚ South and 85˚ to 100˚ East. Chart 3. 1 Apr 1971.
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 58˚ South and 65˚ to 85˚ East. Charts 4 and 5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 80˚ South and 140˚ East to 130˚ West. 17 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 1. 17 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 2. 17 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 3. 20 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 4. 21 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 5. 24 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 6. 25 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 7. 28 Jan 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 65˚ to 70˚ South and 160˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 8. 29 Jan to 1 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 70˚ to 74˚ South and 170˚ East to 170˚ West. Chart 9. 3 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 74˚ to 77˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 10. 8 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 74˚ to 77˚ South and 155˚ to 175˚ West. Chart 11.
a. Ozalid. b. From 77˚ to 79˚ South and 155˚ to 175˚ West. Chart 12. 14 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 77˚ to 79˚ South and 155˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 13. 20 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 80˚ South and 150˚ East to 160˚ West. 26 Feb 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 77˚ to 79˚ South and 155˚ West to 175˚ East. Chart 1. 29 Feb to 1 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 74˚ to 77˚ South and 155˚ West to 175˚ East. Chart 2. 2 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 77˚ to 77˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 3. 26 Feb to 1 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 74˚ to 77˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 4. 27 Feb to 5 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 70˚ to 74˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 5. 8 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 65˚ to 70˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West. Chart 6. 17 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 7. 19 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 8. 19 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 9. 20 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 10. 21 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 11. 22 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 12. 24 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 41˚ to 45˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Chart 13. 25 Mar 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 110˚ to 175˚ East. 10 Apr to 1 Jun 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 31˚ to 35˚ South and 110˚ to 120˚ East. Chart 1. 8 Jun 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 39˚ South and 110˚ to 120˚ East. Chart 2. 8 Jun 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 31˚ to 35˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Chart 3. 31 May to 1 Jun 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 39˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Chart 4. 2 Jun 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Chart 5. 24 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 38˚ to 43˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Chart 6. 18 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 43˚ to 47˚ South and 143˚ to 151˚ East. Chart 7. 29 Apr to 17 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 47˚ to 51˚ South and 141˚ to 151˚ East. Chart 8. 30 Apr to 1 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 51˚ to 54˚ South and 141˚ to 151˚ East. Chart 9. 2 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 54˚ to 57˚ South and 141˚ to 151˚ East. Chart 10. 3 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 59˚ South and 141˚ to 151˚ East. Chart 11. 4 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 137˚ to 147˚ East. Chart 12. 5 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 137˚ to 147˚ East. Chart 13. 6 May 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 42˚ to 47˚ South and 137˚ to 163˚ East. Chart 14. 18 Apr 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 47˚ to 50˚ South and 160˚ to 171˚ East. Chart 15. 11 Apr 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 50˚ to 53˚ South and 150˚ to 171˚ East. Chart 16. 12 Apr 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 42˚ to 47˚ South and 163˚ to 175˚ East. Chart 17. 10 Apr 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 60˚ to 165˚ East. 20 Jun, 1 Aug, 2 Sep 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 110˚ to 117˚ East. Chart 1. 28 to 31 Jul 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2506S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 103˚ to 110˚ East. Chart 2. 21 Jun 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2606S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 106˚ to 113˚ East. Chart 3. U.S. Navy Index 2606S, 2607S, 2506S and 2507S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 98˚ to 108˚ East. Chart 4. 23 Jun 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2606S and 2607S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 91˚ to 98˚ East. Chart 5. 25 Jun 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2706S and 2707S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 85˚ to 91˚ East. Chart 6. 26 Jun 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2706S, 2707S, 2806S and 2807S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ to 107˚ East. Chart 7. 24 Jul 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2607S and 2608S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 44˚ South and 85˚ to 90˚ East. Chart 8. 27 Jun 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2807S and 2808S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 44˚ to 48˚ South and 93˚ to 102˚ East. Chart 9. 23 Jul 1972. U.S. Navy Index 2608S, 2609S, 2708S and 2709S.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 57˚ 30" to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ West to 165˚ East. Suva to Del Plata, Cruise XII, Leg XII.
a. Paper. b. Near 19˚ North by 176˚ East. Aries V, May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 19˚ North by 176˚ East. Aries V, 15 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 22˚ North by 171˚ East. Aries V, 19 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 21˚ North by 166˚ East. Aries V, Survey #4, 21 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 21˚ North by 161˚ East. Aries V, Survey #5, 22-23 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 30˚ North by 158˚ East. Aries V, Dredge Station #28, 29 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 29˚ North by 153˚ East. Aries V, Survey #6, 30-31 May 1971.
a. Paper. b. Near 34˚ North by 145˚ East. Aries V, Survey #7, 3-4 June 1971.
a. Paper. b. Insets A, B and C for Leg VII; Inset D for Leg VIII; Inset E for Leg V; and Inset G for Legs IV, V, VII, & A-185.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ South and 65˚ to 80˚ West. Tracks 44-80. Sheets 1-6, 1 of 2.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 10˚ to 35˚ South and 70˚ to 85˚ West. Tracks 24-58.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 15˚ to 28˚ South and 73˚ to 91˚ West. Color-coded tracks. Blue 1-4 and orange 1-4.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 21˚ North and 68˚ to 76˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. No annotations, just lines.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ North to 12˚ South and 112˚ to 134˚ East. From Snellius Expedition Volume V, Part I. Plate IX. Scale 1:5,000,000. Lines are coded according to bottom characteristics.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 125˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Acetate. b. From 15˚ North to 10˚ South and 165˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Acetate. b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 105˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Acetate. b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 105˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ North to 45˚ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West. Tracks for the Baird, Horizon, and Vema.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 35˚ South and 90˚ East.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 169˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 44˚ to 48˚ South and 169˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 36˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Computer plotted.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ East to 90˚ West. Tracks 3 through 10, 15, 16a and b, and 17.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ East to 90˚ West. Tracks 3 through 10, 15, 16a and b, and 17.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 40˚ South and 105˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 12˚ South and 112˚ to 134˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 65˚ South and 110˚ to 165˚ East. Signed by Marie Tharp.
a. Paper. b. From 9˚ North to 12˚ South and 112˚ to 134˚ East. Snellius Expedition vol.5 part 1, plate IX.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Plate 2.
a. Paper. b. From 13˚ 20’to 13˚ 30’ North and 144˚ 20’to 144˚ 40’ East. Covers 2203N, December 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 20˚ South and 140˚ to 180˚ East. RV Vema, March 1977.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 135˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 150˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West. Plotted on a French map.
a. Paper. b. From 25˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West. Plotted on a French map.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 65˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 100˚ to 140˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Area 470.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 121˚ to 133˚ East. Area 471.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 133˚ to 145˚ East. Area 472. December 1978.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 145˚ to 157˚ East. Area 473. December 1978.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 105˚ to 120˚ East. Area 497. August 1977.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Area 498. August 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 155˚ to 158˚ East. Area 499. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 150˚ to 165˚ East. Area 500. December 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 105˚ to 120˚ East. Area 521. August 1977.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Area 522.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Area 523. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 105˚ to 125˚ East. Area 542. March 1974.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 125˚ to 145˚ East. Area 543. March 1974.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 145˚ to 165˚ East. Area 544. March 1974.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 66˚ to 72˚ South and 100˚ to 125˚ East. Area 558. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 66˚ to 72˚ South and 125˚ to 150˚ East. Area 559. June 1972.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 2˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 60˚ North and 100˚ to 177˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 125˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 105˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 70˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ to 70˚ South and 90˚ East to 160˚ West. Master track chart.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 110˚ to 165˚ East. Index chart.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 46˚ to 49˚ South and 166˚ to 173˚ East. Matthew’s areas 22 and 23. 12 April 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 169˚ to 174˚ East. Matthew’s areas 23, 42,and 43. 11 April 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 159˚ to 169˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22 to 25. 12 April 1972. Sheet 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 159˚ to 163˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22. 18 April 1972. Sheet 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 41˚ to 45˚ South and 153˚ to 163˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22, 31, and 42. 19 April 1972. Sheet 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 47˚ South and 148˚ to 155˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22, 31, and 42. 29 April 1972. Sheet 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 47˚ to 50˚ South and 144˚ to 151˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22, 23 and 31. 14 May 1972. Sheet 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ to 53˚ South and 144˚ to 153˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 23-25. 13 May 1972. Sheet 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 142˚ to 149˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 25-26. 12 May 1972. Sheet 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 140˚ to 148˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 26-27. 10 May 1972. Sheet 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 61˚ South and 139˚ to 147˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 27-28. 9 May 1972. Sheet 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 61˚ to 64˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 27-28. 6-8 May 1972. Sheet 11a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 47˚ South and 142˚ to 149˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31, 42, and 46. 18-23 May 1972. Sheet 12a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 135˚ to 145˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31. 24-28 May 1972. Sheet 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 41˚ South and 128˚ to 136˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31. 29-30 May 1972. Sheet 14.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 37˚ South and 123˚ to 131˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31 and 32. 31 May to 5 June 1972. Sheet 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 34˚ to 38˚ South and 117˚ to 123˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 32. 6-7 June 1972. Sheet 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 112˚ to 117˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31 and 32. 8-9 June 1972. Sheet 17.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 55˚ to 58˚ South and 73˚ to 78˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 28. Sheet 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 55˚ to 58˚ South and 67˚ to 73˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 28. 9 July 1972. Sheet 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 115˚ to 122˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 32. 31 July 1972. Sheet 17.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 120˚ to 125˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31. 2 August 1972. Sheet 18.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 122˚ to 128˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 22-24, and 31. 3 August 1972. Sheet 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 123˚ to 126˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 24-26. Sheet 20.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 43˚ to 46˚ South and 123˚ to 125˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31. Sheet 21.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 135˚ to 144˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31. Sheet 22.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 40˚ South and 142˚ to 146˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 31 and 46. Sheet 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 146˚ to 152˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 46. Sheet 24.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 152˚ to 157˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 42 and 46. Sheet 25.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 36˚ South and 152˚ to 155˚ East. Matthew’s Areas 46. Sheet 26.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 37˚ South and 149˚ to 154˚ East. 30-31 October 1972. Sheet 1 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 147˚ to 152˚ East. Matthews areas 42 and 46. 2 November 1972. Sheet 2 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 143˚ to 153˚ East. Matthews areas 41, 42, and 46. 5 November 1972. Sheet 3 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. Matthews areas 22, 23, and 31. 9 November 1972. Sheet 4 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 138˚ East. Matthews areas 22-24, and 31. 13 November 1972. Sheet 5 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 132˚ to 141˚ East. Matthews areas 31. 14 November 1972. Sheet 6 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. Matthews areas 31. 16 November 1972. Sheet 7 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. Matthews areas 31. Sheet 8 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 127˚ to 146˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 9 December 1972. Sheet 9 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 117˚ to 127˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 11-16 December 1972. Sheet 10 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 17-24 December 1972. Sheet 11 of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 17-24 December 1972. Sheet 11 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 26-29 December 1972. Sheet 12 of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. Matthews areas 31 and 32. 26-29 December 1972. Sheet 12 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 56˚ to 58˚ South and 119˚ to 121˚ West. Pencil version.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 173˚ to 180˚ East. From Tahiti to Townsville. From 13 to 15 April 1966. Sheet 8 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 167˚ to 174˚ East. From Tahiti to Townsville. From 16 to 17 April 1966. Sheet 9 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 150˚ to 155˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 29 April to 1 May 1966. Sheet 1a of 6. `
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 154˚ to 155˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 2 May 1966. Sheet 1b of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 152˚ to 159˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 3-6 May 1966. Sheet 1c of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 147˚ to 154˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 7-9 May 1966. Sheet 1 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 152˚ to 156˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 13-14 May 1966. Sheet 2 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 155˚ to 159˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 15-17 May 1966. Sheet 3 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 158˚ to 162˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 18 May 1966. Sheet 4 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 152˚ to 163˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 19-24 May 1966. Sheet 5 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 141˚ to 152˚ East. From Townsville to Tokyo. 25-27 May 1966. Sheet 6 of 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ North and 124˚ to 129˚ East. From Victoria to Panama. 14-17 August 1966. Sheet 1 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ North and 126˚ to 129˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 18-19 August 1966. Sheet 2 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ North and 128˚ to 129˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 28 August 1966. Sheet 3 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 128˚ to 129˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 21-22 August 1966. Sheet 4 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 129˚ to 130˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 23-24 August 1966. Sheet 5 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 124˚ to 130˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 25 August 1966. Sheet 6 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 118˚ to 124˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 26- 27 August 1966. Sheet 7 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 112˚ to 118˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 28- 29 August 1966. Sheet 8 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 101˚ to 110˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 31August to 1 September 1966. Sheet 9 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 93˚ to 101˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 2-4 September 1966. Sheet 10 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 83˚ to 93˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 5-6 September 1966. Sheet 11 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 80˚ to 84˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 7-8 September 1966. Sheet 12 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 79˚ to 81˚ West. From Victoria to Panama. 9 September 1966. Sheet 13 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 113˚ to 116˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 20-21 May 1967. Sheet 1 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 109˚ to 113˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 22-23 May 1967. Sheet 2 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 109˚ to 115˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 24 May 1967. Sheet 3 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 111˚ to 114˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 27 May 1967. Sheet 4 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 114˚ to 120˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 28-30 May 1967. Sheet 5 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 117˚ to 119˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 31 May to 1 June 1967. Sheet 6 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 118˚ to 129˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 2-4 June 1967. Sheet 7 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 129˚ to 131˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 5-6 June 1967. Sheet 8 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 7-10 June 1967. Sheet 9 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 11-14 June 1967. Sheet 10 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 147˚ to 150˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 16-17 June 1967. Sheet 11 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 138˚ to 148˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 18-19 June 1967. Sheet 12 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 136˚ to 141˚ East. From Freemantle to Yokohama. 20-22 June 1967. Sheet 13 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ North and 123˚ to 130˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 21-22 August 1967. Sheet 1 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ North and 130˚ to 139˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 23-24 August 1967. Sheet 2 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ North and 138˚ to 140˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 25-26 August 1967. Sheet 3 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 27 August 1967. Sheet 4 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 28-29 August 1967. Sheet 5 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 139˚ to 140˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 30-31 August 1967. Sheet 6 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 31˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 1 September 1967. Sheet 7 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 2-3 September 1967. Sheet 8 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 4-6 September 1967. Sheet 9 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 7-8 September 1967. Sheet 10 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 139˚ to 141˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 9-10 September 1967. Sheet 11 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 140˚ to 146˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 11-13 September 1967. Sheet 12 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 18˚ South and 145˚ to 149˚ West. From Victoria to Tahiti. 14-16 September 1967. Sheet 13 of 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 104˚ to 114˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 23-24 February 1968. Sheet 1 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 104˚ to 124˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 29 February 1968. Sheet 2 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 123˚ to 133˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 1-4 March 1968. Sheet 3 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 132˚ to 143˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 6-9 March 1968. Sheet 4 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 142˚ to 149˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 10-13 March 1968. Sheet 5 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 148˚ to 151˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 14-15 March 1968. Sheet 6 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 150˚ to 152˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 16-17 March 1968. Sheet 7 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 151˚ to 158˚ West. From Manzanilo to Honolulu. 18-22 March 1968. Sheet 8 of 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 144˚ to 147˚ West. From Guam to Fiji. 20-21 October 1974. Sheet 1 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 146˚ to 157˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 22-25 October 1974. Sheet 2 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 166˚ to 168˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 31 October 1974. Sheet 3 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 156˚ to 165˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 26-30 October 1974. Sheet 4 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 165˚ to 168˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 1-4 November 1974. Sheet 5 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 165˚ to 167˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 2 November 1974. Sheet 6 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 166˚ to 176˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 1-13 November 1974. Sheet 7 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 172˚ to 175˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 7-10 November 1974. Sheet 8 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 175˚ to 177˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 14 November 1974. Sheet 9 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 176˚ to 177˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 15-16 November 1974. Sheet 10 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 12˚ North and 175˚ to 178˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 17-18 November 1974. Sheet 11 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 176˚ to 179˚ East. From Guam to Fiji. 19 November 1974. Sheet 12 of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 178˚ East to 172˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 1.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 167˚ to 173˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 2 and 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 165˚ to 174˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 157˚ to 166˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 157˚ to 166˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 149˚ to 155˚ West. From Fiji to Tahiti. November/December 1974. Trace 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 1.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 131˚ to 141˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 132˚ to 142˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 119˚ to 123˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 115˚ to 123˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 112˚ to 116˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ South and 108˚ to 113˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ South and 106˚ to 110˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 104˚ to 108˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 102˚ to 106˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 101˚ to 101˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 83˚ to 93˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 75˚ to 84˚ West. From Tahiti to Ushuaia. December 1974 to January 1975. Trace 14.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 56˚ to 58˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 17-18 May 1974. Sheet 1 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 55˚ to 58˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 19-20 May 1974. Sheet 2 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 57˚ to 60˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 21-22 May 1974. Sheet 3 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 59˚ to 63˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 23-24 May 1974. Sheet 4 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 62˚ to 65˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 25-26 May 1974. Sheet 5 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 64˚ to 74˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 27-28 May 1974. Sheet 6 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 66˚ to 73˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 30 May to 16 June 1974. Sheet 7 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 66˚ to 72˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 1-8 June 1974. Sheet 8 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 73˚ to 74˚ East. From Mauritius to Goa. 17 June 1974. Sheet 9 of 9.
a. Negative print. b. From 40˚ to 65˚ South and 100˚ West to 150˚ East. “The Russians gave us this track in the form of a book with the profiles printed on 8x11 pages. These sheets had to be copied and pasted together, then annotated in our customary style of selected peaks and valleys, in the appropriate unit. Seven lat. and long. were noted in order to plot the depths onto a map with the appropriate lat. and long. These notebooks have been boxed up and cruises have been indexed – see Foreign Data and Profile Records.”
a. Positive print. b. From 40˚ to 65˚ South and 100˚ West to 150˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ North to 20˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ East. Includes an attached index of ships and cruise numbers.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 3˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Work done by the Department of the Interior. “Shows tracks of data and contours complete file is a verifile. Published and in Heezen and Tharp biblios – other sheets discovered later.”
a. Negative transparency. b. From 42˚ South and 169˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ to 85˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 60˚ North and 90˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Acetate. b. From 03˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Shot down to near illegibility Southeast of Hawaii.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 23˚ North and 85˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 21˚ North and 85˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 46˚ South and 110˚ to 155˚ East. Color-coded tracks and cruise numbers.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 15˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 25˚ to 33˚ North and 109˚ to 117˚ West. By Rusnak, Fisher, and Shepard. Chart 1, sheet 2. Published by the American Association of Petroleum Geologist, 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 27˚ North and 105˚ to 112˚ West. By Rusnak, Fisher, and Shepard. Chart 1, sheet 2. Published by the American Association of Petroleum Geologist, 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 125˚ to 145˚ East. Royal Australian Navy. Area 543.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 95˚ to 165˚ West. Acupoco to Honolulu, 31 May to 27 June 1975.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ South to 60˚ North and 100˚ East to 70˚ West. December 1979.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 57˚ South and 60˚ to 70˚ West. From the US Luaia. March 1962.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 57˚ South and 50˚ to 60˚ West. Covers the Burdwood bank.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ 50’ to 55˚ 20’ South and 66˚ to 69˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ 30’ to 55˚ South and 66˚ to 67˚ 30’ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 0˚ to 10˚ South and 90˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 27˚ to 41˚ South and 176˚ to 179˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 169˚ East to 179˚ West. Prepared by the NZ Oceanographic Institute. Plotted on sheet Bounty. 1963.
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 169˚ East to 179˚ West. Prepared by the NZ Oceanographic Institute. Plotted on sheet Bounty. 1970.
a. Paper. b. From 65˚ to 68˚ South and 157˚ to 169˚ East. Prepared by the NZ Oceanographic Institute. Plotted on sheet Balleny. 1970.
a. Paper. b. From 48˚ to 65˚ South and 157˚ to 169˚ East. Prepared by the NZ Oceanographic Institute. Plotted on sheet Auckland. 1967.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 110˚ West. Includes provinces, tracks without depths, and unidentified cruises.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 65˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ to 60˚ North and 95˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 15˚ North to 50˚ South and 150˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 120˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 21˚ 50’ to 22˚ 30’ North and 171˚ to 172˚ East. Seamount #3. 19 –20 May 1971.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 15˚ to 60˚ South and 105˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid Paper. b. From 30˚ to 75˚ South and 120˚ East to 60˚ West.
a. Negative Transparency. b. From 35˚ North to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 110˚ West. Includes contours in meters.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 125˚ West. Covers the central Eastern Pacific. Included US Navy Index blocks.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ West. Covers the central Pacific. Included US Navy Index blocks.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 50˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ East. Covers the central Pacific. Included US Navy Index blocks.
a. Ozalid Paper. b. Polar projection. Tracks from US Navy and other expeditions.
a. Tracing Paper. b. From 9˚ to 22˚ North and 156˚ to 173˚ West. Computer plotted, 6-9 May 1971.
a. Tracing Paper. b. From 29˚ 10’ to 29˚ 50’ North and 153˚ to 153˚ 50’ East. Computer plotted, 31 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ 20’ to 18˚ North and 175˚ to 175˚ 50’ West. Computer plotted, 10- 11 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ 20’ to 18˚ North and 175˚ to 175˚ 50’ West. Computer plotted, 10- 11 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 105˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Color –coded tracks and Matthew’s numbers.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 165˚ East. Covers the NW Pacific, Map 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 165˚ East. Color-coded tracks. Covers the NW Pacific, Map 5.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 165˚ East. Cover the Northern Pacific, Map 6N.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 165˚ East. Cover the Northern Pacific, Map 6N. (Data different from 0563).
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 95˚ to 170˚ West. Map 6A. From December 1960 to January 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 60˚ South and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 10, covers the central Pacific.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ 20’ to 31˚ North and 158˚ to 158˚ 55’ East. From 29-30 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ 20’ to 31˚ North and 158˚ to 158˚ 55’ East. From the ship – Thomas Washington.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ to 31˚ North and 158˚ to 158˚ 55’ East. Aries V, 29-30 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 143˚ to 154˚ East. Manila to Townsville. July 3 1967.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 157˚ to 167˚ West. Sheet 1 and 1 a.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 168˚ to 178˚ West. Sheet 2.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 18˚ North and 174˚ to 178˚ West. Sheet 2a.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 177˚ West to 178˚ East. Sheet 3.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 176˚ to 177˚ East. Sheet 4.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 165˚ to 173˚ East. Sheet 5.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 158˚ to 167˚ East. Sheet 6.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 154˚ to 168˚ East. Sheet 7.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 151˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 8.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 151˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 8.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 146˚ to 154˚ East. Sheet 9.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 142˚ to 148˚ East. Sheet 10.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 138˚ to 143˚ East. Sheet 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 8˚ 58’ to 9˚ 42’ North and 158˚ to 159˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May, June, August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 18˚ 37’ North and 159˚ 45’ to 160˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May, June, August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 18˚ 37’ North and 159˚ 40’ to 160˚ 22’ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May, June, August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 21˚ North and 159˚ to 164˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May, June, August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 13˚ to 18˚ North and 157˚ to 163˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to 24˚ North and 164˚ to 171˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 27˚ North and 170˚ to 178˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 158˚ to 164˚ East. Hawaii to Midway. Number 1 of 10. 27-29 March 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 163˚ to 173˚ West. Hawaii to Midway. Number 2 of 10. 30 March to 1 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 173˚ to 176˚ West. Hawaii to Midway. Number 3 of 10. 2 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 176˚ to 180˚ West. Hawaii to Midway. Number 4 of 10. 3-4 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 169˚ to 179˚ West. Hawaii to Midway. Number 5 of 10. 6-8 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 159˚ to 170˚ East. Hawaii to Midway. Number 6 of 10. 9-12 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 159˚ to 169˚ East. Hawaii to Midway. Number 7 of 10. 13 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 169˚ to 172˚ East. Hawaii to Midway. Number 8 of 10. 17 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 171˚ to 180˚ East. Hawaii to Midway. Number 9 of 10. 18-20 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 177˚ to 180˚ West. Hawaii to Midway. Number 10 of 10. 21-22 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 177˚ to 179˚ West. Midway to Manila. Number 1 of 15. 25-26 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 178˚ to 180˚ West. Midway to Manila. Number 2 of 15. 27-28 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 179˚ to 180˚ West. Midway to Manila. Number 3 of 15. 30 April 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 178˚ to 180˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 4 of 15. 1 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 172˚ to 180˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 5 of 15. 2-4 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 66˚ to 173˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 6 of 15. 5-7 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 155˚ to 166˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 7 of 15. 8-11 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 151˚ to 155˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 8 of 15. 12-13 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 147˚ to 152˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 9 of 15. 14-15 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 147˚ to 148˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 10 of 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 144˚ to 147˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 11 of 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 142˚ to 145˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 12 of 15. 17 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 131˚ to 142˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 13 of 15. 18-20 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 120˚ to 131˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 14 of 15. 21-24 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 118˚ to 121˚ East. Midway to Manila. Number 15 of 15. 25 May 1967.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. J.L.M. Worksheet
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 85˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 160˚ West. Cover 1505N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ North to 40˚ South and 20˚ East to 85˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 5˚ to 60˚ North and 80˚ to 165˚ West. By Scripps for the Bell Telephone laboratories, December 1965.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 65˚ to 165˚ East. Map 5-b.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 65˚ to 165˚ East. Map 5.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 100˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 6a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 6a. Includes color-coded grid.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 6b.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 6c.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 72˚ South and 100˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ to 30˚ South and 100˚ to 130˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 90˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 90˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 30˚ South and 160˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 90˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ South 120˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. JLM Worksheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 70˚ South and 165˚ East to 100˚ West. Map 10.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 70˚ South and 100˚ West to 165˚ East. Map 10b.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 70˚ South and 100˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 18˚ to 35˚ North and 158˚ to 165˚ West. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 18˚ North to 46˚ 40’ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West. Rolled item. Color- coded pen and ink tracks.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Rolled item.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ North and 80˚ to 135˚ West. Prepared by Smith, Chase, Farrell, Taylor, and Weed of the Scripps Institution for the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Chart 3B South, Dec. 1965.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 18˚ North to 25˚ South and 125˚ to 180˚ West. Summary sheet, no. 2 of 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ North to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 110˚ West. 18 August 1974.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ North to 24˚ South and 158˚ to 163˚ West. Sheet no. 1 of 9. 2-3 October, 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 161˚ to 168˚ West. Sheet no. 2 of 9. 4-6 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 166˚ to 176˚ West. Sheet no. 3 of 9. 7-10 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 177˚ East to 176˚ West. Sheet no. 4 of 9. 11-15 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 173˚ to 178˚ East. Sheet no. 5 of 9. 16-17 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 178˚ West to 173˚ East. Sheet no. 6 of 9. 18-20 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 168˚ to 179˚ West. Sheet no. 7 of 9. 21-23 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 168˚ to 179˚ West. Sheet no. 8 of 9. 25-29 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 178˚ East to 178˚ West. Sheet no. 9 of 9. 30-31 October 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 158˚ to 161˚ West. Sheet no. 1 of 12. 28-29 March 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 160˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet no. 2 of 12. 30-31 March 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 164˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet no. 3 of 12. 1-2 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 164˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet no. 4 of 12. 3-5 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 163˚ to 165˚ West. Sheet no. 5 of 12. 6-8 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 160˚ to 164˚ West. Sheet no. 6 of 12. 9-10 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 160˚ to 166˚ West. Sheet no. 7 of 12. 11-13 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 165˚ to 171˚ West. Sheet no. 8 of 12. 14-16 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet no. 9 of 12. 17-20 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Sheet no. 10 of 12. 21-23 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Sheet no. 11 of 12. 24-26 April 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 153˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet no. 12 of 12. 27-28 April 1968.
a. Negative print. b. From 5˚ to 17˚ North and 100˚ to 115˚ East. Gulf of Thailand and South China Sea track chart, 1959 – 1961.
a. Negative print. b. From 4˚ to 16˚ North and 105˚ to 116˚ East. Tracks A – Z.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 90˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 32˚ to 70˚ South and 40˚ to 180˚ East. Covers Tasmania, New Zealand and Antarctica.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ North to 20˚ South and 75˚ to 100˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ South to 18˚ North and 125˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 79˚ to 80˚ West. Sheet 1 of 5, covers 0802N.
a. Paper. b. From 9˚ to 6˚ North and 79˚ to 90˚ West. Sheet 2 of 5, covers 0902N.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 90˚ to 101˚ West. Sheet 3 of 5, covers 1102N and 1002N.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 94˚ to 95˚ West. Sheet 4 of 5, covers 1002N and 1003N.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 94˚ to 95˚ West. Sheet 5 of 5, covers 1101N and 1102N.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 104˚ to 107˚ West. Sheet 1 of 5, covers 1104N.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 106˚ to 113˚ West. Sheet 2 of 5, covers 1103N, 1104N, 1203N, and 1204N.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 113˚ to 121˚ West. Sheet 3 of 5, covers 1203N, 1204N, 1303N, and 1304N.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 120˚ to 127˚ West. Sheet 4 of 5, covers 1302N, and 1303N.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 126˚ to 134˚ West. Sheet 5 of 5, covers 1301N, 1302N, 1401N and 1402N.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 176˚ to 179˚ West. 30 August 1972. Sheet 1 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 174˚ to 177˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 2 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 167˚ to 176˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 3 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 160˚ to 167˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 4 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 158˚ to 163˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 5 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 156˚ to 162˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 6 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 144˚ to 154˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 7 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 154˚ to 157˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 8 of 9.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 144˚ to 145˚ East. 30 August 1972. Sheet 9 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 137˚ to 143˚ East. 31 May 1974. Sheet 1 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 133˚ to 140˚ East. Sheet 2 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 140˚ to 149˚ East. 21 May 1971. Sheet 3 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 24˚ North and 133˚ to 140˚ East. 6 July 1971. Sheet 4 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 140˚ to 147˚ East. 10 June 1971. Sheet 5 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 130˚ to 137˚ East. 16 June 1971. Sheet 6 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ North and 129˚ to 131˚ East. 18 June 1971. Sheet 7 of 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 157˚ to 164˚ West. 20 August 1972. Sheet 1 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 162˚ to 169˚ West. 26 August 1972. Sheet 2 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 168˚ to 175˚ West. 26 August 1972. Sheet 3 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 172˚ to 180˚ West. 26 August 1972. Sheet 4 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 176˚ to 180˚ West. 26 August 1972. Sheet 5 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 174˚ to 179˚ West. 26 August 1972. Sheet 6 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 176˚ to 178˚ East. 26 August 1972. Sheet 7 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 175˚ to 178˚ East. 26 August 1972. Sheet 8 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 175˚ to 179˚ East. 26 August 1972. Sheet 9 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Covers BC 0906N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 104˚ to 107˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 1 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 104˚ to 106˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 2 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 100˚ to 108˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 3 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 91˚ to 100˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 4 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 89˚ to 92˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 5 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 80˚ to 89˚ East. November 1971, Sheet 6 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 86˚ to 79˚ West. December 1971, Sheet 7 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ North and 79˚ to 89˚ East. December 1971, Sheet 8 of 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ North and 82˚ to 90˚ East. December 1971, Sheet 9 of 9.
653 items
a. Negative print. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ North and 120˚ to 125˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1307 N-C.
a. Negative print. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1307 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1406 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1406 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 29˚ to 32˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1406 N-D.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1505 N-A.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 26˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1505 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1505 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 29˚ to 32˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1506 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1603 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1604 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1604 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 43˚ to 47˚ North and 156˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1608 N.
a. Negative print. b. From 47˚ to 49˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1609 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 45˚ to 47˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1609 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 51˚ to 53˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1610 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 49˚ to 51˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1610 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 54˚ 30 to 56˚ North and 155˚ to 167˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1611 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 55˚ to 56˚ 30" North and 154˚ to 157˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1611 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 54˚ 30" to 56˚ North and 155˚ to 159˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1611 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 53˚ to 55˚ North and 155˚ to 159˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1611 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 53˚ to 55˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1611 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 51˚ to 53˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1710 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 51˚ to 53˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1710 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 49˚ to 51˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1710 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1704 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1704 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1704 N-D.
a. Positive print b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1804 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 51˚ to 53˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1810 N.
a. Negative print. b. From 51˚ to 53˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1810 N.
a. Negative print. b. From 49˚ to 51˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1810 N.
a. Negative print. b. From 49˚ to 51˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ West. U. S. Navy Index 1810 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 13˚ 30" to 17˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 1903 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 1904 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 1904 N-B and 1905 N-C.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 1904 N-C.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 1904 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2003 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2003 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2004 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2004 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2103 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2103 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2104 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2104 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 6˚ to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2202 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2203 N-B.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2203 N-C.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2203 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2204 N-C.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2204 N-D.
a. Negative print. b. From 6˚ 30" to 10˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2302 N-A.
a. Negative print. b. From 7˚ to 10˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2302 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2302 N- D.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2303 N- A.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2303 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2304 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 120˚ to 125˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2401 N- A.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2402 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 120˚ to 125˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2402 N- D.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2403 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 125˚ to 129˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2403 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 110˚ to 115˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2501 N- A.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2501 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2501 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 6˚ to 10˚ North and 115˚ to 119˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 110˚ to 115˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 N- D.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ South and 110˚ to 115˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 S.
a. Negative print. b. From 7˚ to 10˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 S.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2502 S- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2503 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2503 N- C.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 100˚ to 105˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2601 N- A.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 105˚ to 110˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2601 N- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ South and 100˚ to 105˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2602 S- A.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ South and 105˚ to 110˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2602 S- B.
a. Positive print b. From 3˚ to 7˚ South and 105˚ to 110˚ East. U. S. Navy Index 2602 S- B.
a. Negative print. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 143˚ to 149˚ West. Project 10,000-828, Feb 1962, Sheet No. 7, U. S. Navy Index 1505 N.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 17˚ 30" South and 178˚ 40" to 179˚ 20" East.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ 40" to 18˚ 20" South and 176˚ to 178˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 19˚ South and 178˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ to 17˚ 30" South and 178˚ East to 179˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ North to 20˚ South and 75˚ to 100˚ West. Computerized soundings. Historical document.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 119˚ to 125˚ West. Plot 1.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 124˚ to 129˚ West. Plot 2.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 128˚ to 134˚ West. Plot 3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 133˚ to 139˚ West. Plot 4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 138˚ to 140˚ West. Plot 5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 140˚ to 142˚ West. Plot 6.
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ to 10˚ South and 141˚ to 146˚ West. Plot 7.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ South and 141˚ to 150˚ West. Plot 8a.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 11˚ South and 138˚ to 142˚ West. Plot 8b. Marquesas Islands
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ South and 130˚ to 139˚ West. Plot 8c.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 1˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Plot 9.
a. Ozalid. b. From 1˚ North to 1˚ South and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Plot 10.
a. Ozalid. b. From 1˚ North to 1˚ South and 100˚ to 110˚ West. Plot 11.
a. Ozalid. b. From 1˚ North to 1˚ South and 91˚ to 100˚ West. Plot 12.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 2˚ North and 89˚ to 91˚ West. Plot 13a. Galapagos Island
a. Ozalid. b. From 2˚ to 4˚ North and 90˚ to 93˚ West. Plot 13b.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 91˚ to 98˚ West. Plot 14.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 97˚ to 104˚ West. Plot 15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 103˚ to 113˚ West. Plot 16.
a. Ozalid. b. From 22˚ to 24˚ North and 110˚ to 115˚ West. Plot 17.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 115˚ to 117˚ West. Plot 18.
a. Ozalid. b. From 28˚ to 31˚ North and 115˚ to 117˚ West. Plot 1.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 112˚ to 117˚ West. Plot 2.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 105˚ to 114˚ West. Plot 3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ North and 105˚ to 112˚ West. Plot 4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 5˚ to 11˚ North and 101˚ to 110˚ West. Plot 5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 91˚ to 101˚ West. Plot 6.
a. Ozalid. b. From 5˚ to 9˚ North and 81˚ to 91˚ West. Plot 7.
a. Ozalid. b. From 5˚ to 9˚ North and 79˚ to 82˚ West. Plot 8.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 96˚ to 105˚ West. Plot 9.
a. Frosted acetate b. Covers U.S. Navy Index No. 1503
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 60˚ to 130˚ East. 3 Feb, 1 Mar, and 1 April 1971.
a. Tracing paper b. From 40˚ to 50˚ South and 115˚ to 130˚ East, Chart No. 1, 5 April 1971. Computerized printout of soundings
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ to 115˚ East, Chart No. 2, 3 April 1971. Computerized printout of soundings
a. Tracing paper b. From 50˚ to 70˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ East, Chart No. 6, 22 Feb and 4 Mar 1971. Computerized printout of soundings
a. Tracing paper b. From 50˚ to 65˚ South and 77˚ to 90˚ East, Chart No. 7, 24 Feb and 3 Mar 1971. Computerized printout of soundings
a. Tracing paper b. From 65˚ to 75˚ South and 75˚ to 87˚ East, Chart No. 8, 26 Feb and 1 Mar 1971. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 31˚ to 37˚ South and 113˚ to 118˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 33˚ to 39˚ South and 118˚ to 125˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 32˚ to 38˚ South and 125˚ to 131˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 32˚ to 38˚ South and 125˚ to 131˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 37˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 139˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 38˚ to 41˚ South and 139˚ to 143˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 40˚ to 44˚ South and 142˚ to 147˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 44˚ to 48˚ South and 121˚ to 128˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 48˚ to 51˚ South and 122˚ to 128˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 43˚ to 47˚ South and 128˚ to 136˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Tracing paper b. From 40˚ to 44˚ South and 136˚ to 144˚ East. Computerized printout of soundings.
a. Ozalid. b. From 150˚ East to 170˚ West. Covers the Deep Sea Drilling Project.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 125˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 158˚ to 164˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 22˚ to 24˚ North and 157˚ to 159˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 6.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 157˚ to 159˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 7.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 157˚ to 158˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 8.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 157˚ to 158˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 9.
a. Ozalid. b. From 25˚ to 30˚ North and 157˚ to 164˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 10.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 28˚ North and 156˚ to 166˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 11.
a. Ozalid. b. From 24˚ to 28˚ North and 156˚ to 159˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 12.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 34˚ North and 157˚ to 158˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 14.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 34˚ North and 156˚ to 159˚ West. Voyage 13-3, Nov to Dec 1969, Honolulu III-IV, Soundings No. 15.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ South and 141˚ to 150˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 1. U.S. Navy Index No. 1503S and 1504S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 28˚ South and 131˚ to 141˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 2, U.S. Navy Index No. 1405S and 1504S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 26˚ to 28˚ South and 121˚ to 131˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 3, U.S. Navy Index No. 1305S and 1405S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 26˚ 30" to 27˚ 30" South and 128˚ to 131˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 3a, U.S. Navy Index No. 1305S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 28˚ South and 112˚ to 122˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 4, U.S. Navy Index No. 1205S and 1305S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 25˚ to 28˚ South and 109˚ to 113˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 5, U.S. Navy Index No. 1105S and 1205S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 24˚ to 27˚ South and 102˚ to 113˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 6, U.S. Navy Index No. 1105S and 1205S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ South and 92˚ to 103˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 7, U.S. Navy Index No. 1005S and 1105S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 28˚ to 30˚ South and 82˚ to 92˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 8, U.S. Navy Index No. 0905S and 1005S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ to 32˚ South and 72˚ to 82˚ West, Nov 1971, Voyage 15-02, Tahiti to Valparaiso, Soundings No. 9, U.S. Navy Index No. 0806S and 0906S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ South and 71˚ to 75˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 1, U.S. Navy Index No. 0806S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 74˚ to 78˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 2, U.S. Navy Index No. 0807S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 74˚ to 78˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 3, U.S. Navy Index No. 0808S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 75˚ to 79˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 4, U.S. Navy Index No. 0809S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 76˚ to 80˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 5, U.S. Navy Index No. 0810S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 79˚ to 81˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 6, U.S. Navy Index No. 0910S and 0911S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 60˚ South and 80˚ to 81˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 7, U.S. Navy Index No. 0911S and 0912S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 79˚ to 81˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 8, U.S. Navy Index No. 0813S, 0912S and 0913S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 74˚ to 80˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 9, U.S. Navy Index No. 0813S and 0814S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 64˚ to 66˚ South and 70˚ to 78˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 10, U.S. Navy Index No. 0515S and 0615S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 69˚ to 72˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 11, U.S. Navy Index No. 0713S and 0814S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 66˚ to 70˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 12, U.S. Navy Index No. 0712S and 0713S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 59˚ to 67˚ West, Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 13, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0612S, 0712S and 0713S.
a. Ozalid. b. Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 13a, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0713S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 60˚ South and 59˚ to 65˚ West. Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 14, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0711S and 0712S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 62˚ to 64˚ West. Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 15, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0710S and 0711S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 52˚ to 54˚ South and 62˚ to 68˚ West. Dec 1971, Voyage 15-03, Valparaiso to Punta Arenas, Plot No. 16, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0710S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 38˚ South and 178˚ to 180˚ West. U.S. Navy Index Nos. 1986S and 1987S. Note: "BCH probably used this for contouring the area since he was chief scientist at the time."
a. Ozalid. b. From 41˚ 12" to 41˚ 20" South and 174˚ 45" to 174˚ 55" East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 11˚ to 17˚ North and 95˚ to 100˚ West. 18 to 28 May, Sheet 2 of 2, U.S. Navy Index No. 1003N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 40˚ South and 149˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 36˚ to 40˚ South and 170˚ to 176˚ West and 39˚ to 41˚ South and 175˚ to 178˚ West. July 1962, U.S. Navy Index No. 1807S. Note: "Probably Glacier or Eastwind. Panama to Christchurch, New Zealand (on to Murdo Sound). Possibly these are Horizon soundings but they are put down differently from Scripps Tracks."
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ West. 4 to 13 Sep.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 9˚ North and 79˚ to 86˚ West. 14 to 16 March. U.S. Navy Index Nos. 0802N and 0902N.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 5˚ to 20˚ North and 95˚ to 130˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 105˚ to 165˚ East. Note: "Bruce and Marie were on this cruise, which went from Fiji to Guam. One important purpose of this cruise was to do site surveys for the GLOMAR Challenger. This was the first Vema cruise that Bruce had been on since Vema 18.'
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ North to 20˚ South and 140˚ to 180˚ East. 22 Feb to 22 Mar 1977
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 19˚ South and 175˚ to 179˚ East. 22 to 23 Feb 1977, Sheet 01, U.S. Navy Index No. 1904S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ South and 173˚ to 176˚ East. 23 to 26 Feb 1977, Sheet 02, U.S. Navy Index No. 1903S.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 10˚ South and 170˚ to 175˚ East. 26 Feb to 1 Mar 1977, Sheet 03, U.S. Navy Index No. 1902S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ South and 170˚ to 175˚ East. 26 Feb to 1 Mar 1977, Sheet 03, U.S. Navy Index No. 1902S.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ North to 10˚ South and 164˚ to 170˚ East. 2 to 4 Mar 1977, Sheet 04, U.S. Navy Index No. 2001N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 12˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ East. 4 to 10 Mar 1977, Sheets 04, 05 and 06, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 2202N and 2003N.
a. Film negative b. From 11˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. 10 to 16 Mar 1977, Sheet 07, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 2103N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 11˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. 10 to 16 Mar 1977, Sheet 07, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 2103N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 11˚ to 13˚ North and 159˚ to 160˚ East. 10 Mar 1977, Sheet 07, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 2103N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 17˚ North and 144˚ to 150˚ East. 16 to 21 Mar 1977, Sheet 08, U.S. Navy Index Nos. 2203N.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Contains two overlays showing depth of basement and sediment thickness.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 46˚ North and 130˚ to 180˚ East. 1940.
a. Film positive b. From 5˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 5˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Soundings obtained by the H.M.N.Z.S. Lachlan, May-Jun 1954.
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 20˚ North and 101˚ to 115˚ West. U.S. Navy Index Nos. 1102N and 1202N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Published by the U.S. Department of the Interior, Ocean Mining Administration. Covers U.S. Navy Index No. 1204N.
a. Tracing paper b. From 28˚ to 30˚ North and 166˚ to 170˚ East and from 24˚ to 29˚ North and 169˚ to 179˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. Chart No. 1.
a. Ozalid. b. Oct 1967, Chart No. 2.
a. Ozalid. b. Oct 1967, Chart No. 3.
a. Ozalid. b. Oct 1967, Chart No. 6.
a. Ozalid
a. Ozalid. b. From 33˚ to 35˚ 40" North and 138˚ to 142˚ East. Sheet E1. Takuyo ship.
a. Ozalid. b. From 29˚ 40" to 33˚ North and 139˚ to 142˚ East. Sheet E2.
a. Ozalid. b. From 26˚ 35" to 29˚ 50" North and 140˚ to 143˚ East. Sheet E3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ 25" to 26˚ 45" North and 141˚ to 143˚ East. Sheet E4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ 10" to 23˚ 35" North and 142˚ to 144˚ East. Sheet E5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 16˚ 50" to 20˚ 20" North and 142˚ to 145˚ East. Sheet E6.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 17˚ North and 141˚ to 145˚ East. Sheet E7.W7.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 42˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Chart G1307.
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ to 42˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Chart G1407.
a. Ozalid. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Chart G1408.
a. Ozalid. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Chart G1505.
a. Ozalid. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Chart G1705.
a. Positive print b. From 19˚ North to 47˚ South and 68˚ to 90˚ West. Plotted on French base map includes Southern Caribbean.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 75˚ South and 150˚ West to 110˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 57˚ to 65˚ South and 156˚ to 169˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. 21 Mar 1978. Sheet 1608.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Dec 1964. Sheet 1704N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. 21 Mar 1978. Sheet 1707.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. 1 Jul 1977. Sheet 1708.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 2 Jun 1976. Sheet 1802.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 21 Mar 1978. Sheet 1803.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Feb 1968. Sheet 1804.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 28 Nov 1977. Sheet 1807.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 21 Mar 1978. Sheet 1807.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 1808.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Sheet 1607N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Jun 1965. Sheet 1702N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 1703N.
a. Ozalid. b. 21 Nov 1969.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. 14 Sep 1966.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. 9 Sep 1966.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Apr and Oct 1966. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Apr, Jun and Oct 1966. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. J.L.M. Worksheet. Covers zones 33, 39, 41, 42 and 46.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers Vema 20 (Hawaii to Victoria, Sep 1965); Vema 20 (Victoria to Midway to Tokyo, Sep 1965); Vema 20 (Darwin to Mauritius, Sep 1965). Note: "Obsolete. Do not use. Includes an overlay for P-47." J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Jul, Aug and Sep 1965. Covers zones 33, 41 and 46. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers zones 23 - 29, 42 and 43.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Eltanin and Vema tracks and soundings. Jun, Jul 1966. Shows overlay plot for Eltanin 18.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 71˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers zones 26 - 29.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers zones 41 and 42. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Sep 1966. Covers zones 41 and 42. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers zones 24, 25 and 42 - 45. J.L.M. Worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 14˚ to 27˚ South and 170˚ to 176˚ West. Note: "Red tracks on soundings are from the British Admiralty".
a. Paper. b. Includes Photograph Copies E/S Trace, Course Plots, and Sounding Collectors. Note: "Jack: Prof Heezen would like copies of 1. All our Galathea soundings (traverses about no 31-33). 2. & of prints showing Galather tracks. Could you organize this pl ? "
a. Negative print. b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 147˚ to 175˚ East. Based on H.O. Chart No. 825. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-E. Scale 1:5,990,000, December 1951.
a. Ozalid enlargement. b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 147˚ to 175˚ East. Based on H.O. Chart No. 825. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-E. Scale 1:5,990,000. Marked D17a, December 1951.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 38˚ South and 150˚ to 175˚ West. Based on H.O. Chart No. 825. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-O. Scale 1:5,990,000. February-March 1952.
a. Ozalid enlargement. b. From 14˚ to 38˚ South and 150˚ to 175˚ West. Based on H.O. Chart No. 825. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-O. Scale 1:5,990,000. Marked D17c, February-March 1952.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ North to 15˚ South and 140˚ to 175˚ West. Based on H.O. Charts No. 825 & 528. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-G. Scale 1:5,990,000. March 1952.
a. Paper enlargement. b. From 10˚ North to 15˚ South and 140˚ to 175˚ West. Based on H.O. Charts No. 825 & 528. Soundings in uncorrected meters. Includes profiles A-G. Scale 1:5,990,000. March 1952.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 169˚ to 172˚ East. Campbell Island area. Sheet 1, December 1951.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 40˚ 15' to 40˚ 50' South and 172˚ to 174˚ East. Melbourne to Wellington. December 1951.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 41˚ 30' to 43˚ South and 174˚ to 174˚ 30' East. Wellington to Campbell Island, December 1951.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 42˚ 30' to 44˚ 15' South and 173˚ 30' to 174˚ 30' East. Wellington to Campbell Island, December 1951.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 40˚ to 41˚ 20' South and 174˚ to 175˚ East. Cook Strait. Chart 695, 21 December 1951.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 44˚ to 49˚ South and 170˚ to 174˚ East. Campbell Island. December 1951 - January 1952.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 52˚ 33' to 52˚ 34' South and 169˚ 10'. Covers Perseverance Harbour on Campbell Island, 7 January 1952.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 44˚ to 46˚ South and 164˚ to 168˚ East. Tasman Sea, 13-16 January 1952.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 44˚ 30' to 44˚ 40' South and 166˚ 30' to 168˚ East. Chart 615. Milford Sound, 16-19 January 1952.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 3˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Sheet 3, Antarctic Scale: 1: 3,000,000. Published by the American Geographical Society, 1962.
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2202S. Soundings Overlay #1. Number 444. "Hi Tray, Here are some of your evaluations. - Marie"
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. Covers 1904N-A Number 839.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. Covers 1904N-D Number 840.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ East. Covers 2003N-A Number 841.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ East. Covers 2004N-B Number 842.
a. Positive print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2203N-C. Number 843.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Covers 2204N-D. Number 844.
a. Positive print. b. From 6˚ to 10˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. Covers 2302N-A. Number 845.
a. Positive print. b. From 6˚ to 10˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2302N-B. Number 846.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. Covers 2302N-D. Number 847.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2303N-B. Number 848.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 120˚ to 125˚ East. Covers 2402N. Number 849.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 110˚ to 115˚ East. Covers 2501N-A. Number 850.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2501N-D. Number 851.
a. Positive print. b. From 7˚ to 10˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2502N-B. Number 852.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2502N-C. Number 853.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 110˚ to 115˚ East. Covers 2502N-D. Number 854.
a. Positive print. b. From 7˚ to 10˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2502S. Number 855.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2503N-B. Number 856.
a. Positive print. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ West. Covers 1505N-B. Number 857.
a. Positive print. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ West. Covers 1505N-B. Number 858.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1604N-A. Number 859.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1604N-A. Number 860.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. Covers 1704N-A. Number 861.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. Covers 1704N-D. Number 862.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Covers 1804N-B. Number 863.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Covers 1804N-C. Number 864.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ West. Covers 1804N-D. Number 865.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. Covers 1804N-D. Number 866.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1904N-B. Number 867.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1904N-C. Number 868.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ East. Covers 2003N-B. Number 869.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ East. Covers 2004N-A. Number 870.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ East. Covers 2103N-A. Number 871.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2103N-B. Number 872.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ East. Covers 2104N-A. Number 873.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2104N-B. Number 874.
a. Positive print. b. From 7˚ to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Covers 2202N-A. Number 875.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2202N-B. Number 876.
a. Positive print. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Covers 2203N. Number 877.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 145˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2204N-C. Number 878.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 130˚ to 135˚ East. Covers 2303N-A. Number 879.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 20˚ North and 135˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2304N-C. Number 880.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 120˚ to 125˚ East. Covers 2401N-A. Number 881.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2402N-C. Number 882.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 17˚ North and 125˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2403N-B. Number 883.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2501N-C. Number 885.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 4˚ to 10˚ North and 158˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1602 N.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 5˚ to 10˚ North and 155˚ to 157˚ West. Covers 1602 N.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 10˚ to 15˚ North and 166˚ to 167˚ West. Covers 1603 N.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 158˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1603 N.
a. Positive print. b. From 19˚ 25’ to 19˚ 50’ North and 121˚ 20’ to 121˚ 40’ East. Sub-Plan A H-7376-A. P1716A.
a. Positive print. b. From 19˚ 50’ to 20˚ 10’ North and (?)˚ 30’ to (?)˚ 55’ East. H3-76-B. P1716B.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ 20’ to 21˚ 20’ North and 121˚ 10’ to 122˚ 30’ East. Sub Plan A and B H-7376-Northern Section. P1716. Historical document showing wire soundings and Fathometer soundings, 1930.
a. Positive print. b. From 18˚ 40’ to 19˚ 40’ North and 121˚ to 122˚ 30’ East. Historic document, 1924. H-7340, P1657. Covers 2404N.
a. Positive print. b. From 19˚ 30’ to 19˚ 45’ North and 122˚ to 122˚ 15’ East. Sub Plan C H-7376, P1716C. Covers 2404N.
a. Positive print. b. From 19˚ 10’ to 19˚ 20’ North and 121˚ 10’ to 121˚ 25’ East. H-7340-A, P1657A. 15 June 1930.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 470. August 1977.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 121˚ to 133˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 471.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 133˚ to 145˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 472. December 1978.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 145˚ to 157˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 473. December 1978.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 105˚ to 120˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 497.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 498. August 1977.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 499. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 150˚ to 165˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 500. December 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 105˚ to 120˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 521. August 1977.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 522. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 523. June 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 105˚ to 125˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 542. 1974(?).
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 125˚ to 145˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 543. February 1972.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 145˚ to 165˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 544. March 1974.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 66˚ to 72˚ South and 125˚ to 150˚ East. Royal Australian Navy, Area 559. June 1972.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 33˚ South and 117˚ to 141˚ West. Worksheet 1.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 19˚ North and 139˚ to 154˚ West. Worksheet 2.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ to 23˚ North and 158˚ to 178˚ West. Worksheet 3.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 20˚ North and 165˚ East to 178˚ West. Worksheet 4.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 24˚ North and 166˚ East to 170˚ West. Worksheet 5.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 35˚ North and 168˚ West to 168˚ East. Worksheet 6.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 40˚ North and 145˚ to 169˚ West. Worksheet 7.
a. Paper. b. From 39˚ to 41˚ North and 133˚ to 145˚ West. Worksheet 8.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ North and 129˚ to 135˚ West. Worksheet 9.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ North and 117˚ to 129˚ West. Worksheet 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 11˚ South and 151˚ to 153˚ West. Suva to Papeete. February 1970.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 178˚ East to 172˚ West. Suva to Papeete. February 1970.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ South and 149˚ to 152˚ West. Suva to Papeete. February/March 1970.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 32˚ to 37˚ South and 149˚ to 154˚ East. 2106S and 2107S, sheet 1 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 147˚ to 152˚ East. 2107S and 2207S, sheet 2 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 143˚ to 150˚ East. 2208S, sheet 3 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 148˚ to 150˚ East. 2209S and 2309S, sheet 4 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 138˚ East. 2309S, sheet 5 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 142˚ to 141˚ East. 2308S, sheet 6 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. 2307S and 2308S, sheet 7 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 32˚ to 37˚ South and 149˚ to 154˚ East. 30-31 October 1972, sheet 1N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 147˚ to 152˚ East. 1-3 November 1972, sheet 2N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 143˚ to 150˚ East. 4-5 November 1972, sheet 3N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. 6-10 November 1972, sheet 4N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 138˚ East. 11-13 November 1972, sheet 5N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 132˚ to 141˚ East. 14-15 November 1972, sheet 6N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. 16-18 November 1972, sheet 7N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. 2-8 December 1972, sheet 8N of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 127˚ to 136˚ East. 9-11 December 1972, sheet 9 of 12.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 127˚ to 136˚ East. 9-10 December 1972, sheet 9N of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 117˚ to 127˚ East. 12-16 December 1972.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. 17-24 December 1972.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 108˚ to 116˚ East. 25-29 December 1972.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 47˚ to 52˚ South and 147˚ to 152˚ East. 1-3 November 1972. Sheet 2TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 143˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet 3TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. 6-7 November 1972. Sheet 4TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 138˚ East. 11-13 November 1972. Sheet 5TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 46˚ to 50˚ South and 132˚ to 141˚ East. 14-15 November 1972. Sheet 6TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 138˚ to 146˚ East. 16-18 November 1972. Sheet 7TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. 3-7 December 1972. Sheet 8TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 36˚ to 41˚ South and 127˚ to 136˚ East. 9-10 December 1972. Sheet 9TP of 12.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 117˚ to 127˚ East. 11-16 December 1972. Sheet 10TP of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. 17-24 December 1972. Sheet 11TP of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 108˚ to 117˚ East. 25-29 December 1972. Sheet 12TP of 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 55˚ to 57˚ South and 60˚ to 66˚ West. Kanves-N15, 1963. a. Ozalid paper. b. From 55˚ to 57˚ South and 60˚ to 66˚ West. Kanves-N15, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 58˚ South and 50˚ to 60˚ West. Kanves-N16, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 57˚ to 58˚ South and 40˚ to 50˚ West. Kanves-N17, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 57˚ to 58˚ South and 30˚ to 40˚ West. Kanves-N18, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 58˚ South and 26˚ to 30˚ West. Kanves-N19, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 22˚ to 27˚ West. Kanves-N20, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 51˚ to 54˚ South and 20˚ to 30˚ West. Kanves-N21, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 52˚ South and 15˚ to 20˚ West. Kanves-N22, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 6˚ to 15˚ West. Kanves-N23, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 4˚ East to 5˚ West. Kanves-N24, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 5˚ to 15˚ East. Kanves-N25, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ South and 15˚ to 19˚ East. Kanves-N26, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 34˚ to 36˚ South and 11˚ to 20˚ East. Kanves-N27, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 1˚ to 10˚ East. Kanves-N28, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 39˚ South and 0˚ to 10˚ West. Kanves-N29, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 39˚ South and 10˚ to 20˚ West. Kanves-N30, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 40˚ South and 20˚ to 30˚ West. Kanves-N31, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 40˚ South and 33˚ to 40˚ West. Kanves-N32, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 40˚ South and 40˚ to 49˚ West. Kanves-N33, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 39˚ South and 50˚ to 57˚ West. Kanves-N34, 1963.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 39˚ South and 8˚ to 16˚ West. Kanves-N29A, 1963.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 45˚ South
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 1˚ 20’ North and 104˚ to 104˚ 30’ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 1.
a. Paper. b. From 1˚ to 1˚ 45’ North and 104˚ to 105˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 2.
a. Paper. b. From 1˚ 30’ to 2˚ 30’ North and 105˚ to 107˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 3.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 3˚ 30’ North and 108˚ to 109˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 5.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ 30’ to 4˚ North and 109˚ to 111˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 6.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ to 5˚ North and 111˚ to 113˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton. 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 7.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ to 6˚ North and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton, 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 8.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ 55’ to 5˚ 15’ North and 113˚ 10’ to 113˚ 37’ East. Singapore to Jesselton, 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 9.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ to 5˚ 10’ North and 113˚ 20’ to 113˚ 30’ East. Singapore to Jesselton, 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 10.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ North and 113˚ to 115˚ East. Singapore to Jesselton, 29 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 11.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ 50’ to 6˚ 20’ North and 114˚ 50’ to 116˚ 05’ East. Singapore to Jesselton, Jesselton to Hong Kong. 31 May to 2 June 1962. Sheet 12.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ 57’ to 6˚ North and 115˚ 59’ to 116˚ 03’ East. 10-13 July 1962. Sheet 13.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 6˚ 10’ North and 111˚ to 113˚ East. Jesselton to Singapore. 25-31 July 1962. Sheet 14.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ 20’ to 6˚ 10’ North and 109˚ to 111˚ East. Jesselton to Singapore. 25-31 July 1962. Sheet 15.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ 40’ to 5˚ 50’ North and 108˚ to 109˚ East. Jesselton to Singapore. 25-31 July 1962. Sheet 16.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 7˚ 30’ North and 115˚ to 115˚ 50’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June to 24 July 1962. Sheet 17.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ 20’ to 7˚ 30’ North and 115˚ to 115˚ 50’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June to 24 July 1962. Sheet 17a.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ 30’ to 9˚ North and 114˚ 40’ to 115˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 18.
a. Paper. b. From 9˚ to 10˚ 30’ North and 114˚ 40’ to 115˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 19.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 15’ to 10˚ 30’ North and 114˚ 40’ to 115˚ 12’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 20.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 30’ to 12˚ North and 115˚ to 115˚ 40’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 21.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 30’ to 12˚ North and 114˚ 50’ to 115˚ 40’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 21a.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ 30’ North and 115˚ 30’ to 116˚ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 22.
a. Paper. b. From 13˚ 30’ to 15˚ North and 115˚ 40’ to 116˚ 10’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 13 - 24 July 1962. Sheet 23.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ 30’ to 9˚ North and 115˚ to 117˚ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June - July 1962. Sheet 24.
a. Paper. b. From 9˚ to 10˚ 30’ North and 116˚ to 118˚ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 25.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 30’ to 12˚ North and 117˚ 20’ to 118˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 26.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 35’ to 10˚ 53’ North and 117˚ 50’ to 118˚ 26’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 27.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 35’ to 10˚ 55’ North and 117˚ 30’ to 118˚ 25’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 27a.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ 30’ North and 116˚ 50’ to 117˚ 40’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 28.
a. Paper. b. From 13˚ 30’ to 15˚ North and 116˚ 50’ to 117˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 29.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ to 16˚ 30’ North and 116˚ 30’ to 117˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 30.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ 30’ to 18˚ North and 116˚ to 117˚ 10’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 31.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ 30’ to 16˚ 50’ North and 116˚ 30’ to 117˚ 08’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 32.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ 30’ North and 115˚ 20’ to 116˚ 20’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 33.
a. Paper. b. From 19˚ 30’ to 21˚ North and 114˚ 30’ to 115˚ 30’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 34.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ 25’ to 20˚ 50’ North and 115˚ 05’ to 115˚ 24’ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 35.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ to 22˚ 20’ North and 114˚ 10’ to 115˚ East. Jesselton to Hong Kong. 2 June – 7 July 1962. Sheet 36.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 45˚ South and 145˚ to 170˚ East. Wellington to …
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Umataka to Maru.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 2˚ to 3˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Plotted on BC1301. Vema 32.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 2˚ to 3˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Plotted on BC1201. Vema 32.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 2˚ to 3˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. 1401N. Vema 24 and 32.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 1˚ to 3˚ North and 140˚ to 144˚ West. 1501N. Vema 24 and 32.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 13˚ to 108˚ West. 1101N. Vema 21 and 32.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 27˚ North and 65˚ to 66˚ West. 0705N. Sheet D.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ to 15˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Samoa to Tahiti. Extensive annotation and notes.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 34˚ North and 64˚ to 69˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 165˚ East. Composite of 3 transparencies.
a. Negative print. b. From 41˚ 13’ to 41˚ 20’ South and 174˚ 45’ to 174˚ 55’East. Data from Vema 18.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 14˚ North and 156˚ to 161˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag Java Plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ North and 159˚ 30’ Plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. PDR and Scripps data – summary sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 9˚ to 14˚ North and 115˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2102N and 2103N.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 50˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 55˚ to 56˚ South and 129˚ to 131˚ West. Composite of 4 sheets.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 50˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 55˚ South and 155˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ South and 120˚ to 160˚ East. Poorly plotted data.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 50˚ South and 175˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 65˚ South and 60˚ to 90˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ 30’ North and 145˚ to 150˚ West. Covers 1505N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 20˚ North and 170˚ to 172˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 157˚ to 164˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 164˚ to 171˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ 20’ to 22˚ North and 161˚ 20’ to 162˚ 15’ East. Survey 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 40’ North and 176˚ 20’ to 177˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to19˚ 40’ North and 179˚ 20’ to 180˚ West. 13-14 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 40’ North and 179˚ 20’ to 180˚ West. Includes color-coded annotations and corrected sounding numbers. 13-14 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 40’ North and 179˚ 20’ to 180˚ West. 13-14 May 1971. Track with soundings.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 40’ North and 176˚ 10’ to 177˚ East. 15-16 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ 50’ to 22˚ 30’ North and 171˚ 10’ to 172˚ East. 19-20 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ 50’ to 21˚ 30’ North and 165˚ 50’ to 166˚ 45’ East. 21-22 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ 20’ to 22˚ 30’ North and 161˚ 20’ to 162˚ 15’ East. 23-24 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 33˚ 40’ to 34˚ 20’ North and 145˚ 20’ to 146˚ 15’ East. 3-4 June 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 170˚ to 177˚ West.
a. Negative transparency. b. Vema 34-02 and 34-01. Eight tracks with soundings.
a. Positive print. b. From 38˚ to 61˚ North and 123˚ to 181˚ West. Soundings contours and physiographic information.
a. Positive print. b. Enlargement of item 0487.
a. Positive print. b. From 29˚ to 30˚ 30’ North and 74˚ to 81˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 13˚ to 25˚ South and 170˚ to 173˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 14˚ to 26˚ South and 171˚ to 176˚ West. Work done by R.L. Fisher.
a. Ozalid Paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 83˚ East. 2802N.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 16˚ to 17˚ North and 143˚ to 148˚ West. Covers Tahanea, Faaite, Fakaraya, Toau, and Kaukara islands
a. Gridded Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ to 72˚ South and 100˚ to 133˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2405 N. Color-coded annotations.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 42˚ South and 175˚ East to 178˚ West. 5-8 August.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 13 – 15 August.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2502 N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ West. Covers BC1002 N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North BC2402 N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Covers BC2401 S.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ East. BC2302 N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 36˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 13˚ to 18˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West. 21-27 August.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. NP – 13, 902.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ South and 75˚ to 85˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 155˚ to 167˚ West. Attached is a letter to Heezen, from Geoffrey Glasby – from the New Zealand Oceanographic Inst. Related to this sheet.
a. Mylar encased paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 145˚ to 155˚ East. Prepared by the Royal Australian Navy – Area 290.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Covers 1602N, 1701-1704N, and 1803- 1804N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 1 of 7. Covers 1704N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 2 of 7. Covers 1804N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 3a of 7. Covers 1803N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Sheet 3b of 7. Covers 1803N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 4 of 7. Covers 1703N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 5 of 7. Covers 1702N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 6 of 7. Covers 1602N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 7 of 7. Covers 1701N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Index lists 67 items.
a. Paper. b. Covers 2101N to 2105S, 2202N to 2204S, 2302N to 2303S, 2401 to 2402N, and 2502N.
a. Paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ South and 152˚ to 156˚ East. Sheet no.1, July 1961. Covers 2105S.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ 50’ to 28˚ 07’ South and 153˚ 20’ to 155˚ 15’ East. Sheet no.2, 19 July to 17 August 1961. Covers 2105S.
a. Paper. b. Covers 2501S. Sheet no.3, 20 July 1961.
a. Paper. b. Covers 2105S. Sheet no.4, 21 July 1961.
a. Paper. b. Covers 2105S. Sheet no.5, 21 July 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 24˚ 30’ South and 152˚ 50’ to 155˚ 30’ East. Covers 2104 and 2105S. Sheet no.6, July 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 24˚ to 25˚ South and 152˚ to 153˚ East. Covers 2105S Sheet no.7, July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 24˚ 46’to 24˚ 50’ South and 152˚ 25’ to 152˚ 28’ East. Covers 2105S Sheet no.8, 22 July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 153˚ to 156˚ East. Covers 2104S Sheet no.9, July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ 35’ to 19˚ 53’ South and 153˚ to 156˚ East. Covers 2104S Sheet no.10, 25 July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ 34’ to 18˚ 47’ South and 154˚ to 154˚ 23’ East. Covers 2104S Sheet no.11, 25 July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 153˚ to 156˚ East. Covers 2103S Sheet no.12, July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 18˚ South and 145˚ to 153˚ East. Covers 2103S and 2203S Sheet no.13, July/August 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 19˚ South and 146˚ to 147˚ East. Covers 2204S Sheet no.14, 29-30 July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ 10’ to 18˚ 22’ South and 147˚ 15’ to 147˚ 22’East. Covers 2204S Sheet no.15, 29-30 July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 20˚ South and 146˚ to 148˚ East. Covers 2204S Sheet no.16, July 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 16˚ 45’ to 16˚ 49’ South and 145˚ 40’ to 145˚ 45’ East. Covers 2203S Sheet no.17, 2 August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ to 16˚ 50’ South and 145˚ 40’ to 146˚ 12’ East. Covers 2204S Sheet no.18, 2-3 August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ 17’ to 16˚ 25’ South and 145˚ 57’ to 146˚ 07’ East. Covers 2203S Sheet no.19, 2-3 August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ South and 140˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet no.29, 19 July to 17 August 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ 20’ to 6˚ South and 145˚ 20’ to 147˚ East. Covers 2202S Sheet no. 31, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ 12’ to 5˚ 14’ South and 145˚ 50’ to 145˚ 52’ East. Covers 2103S Sheet no. 32, 20 August 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ 12’ to 5˚ 16’ South and 145˚ 48’ to 145˚ 51’ East. Covers 2101N Sheet no. 33, 20 August 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ 30’ to 4˚ 20’ South and 145˚ 05’ to 146˚ 25’ East. Covers 2201N and 2202S Sheet no. 34, 17 August 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ 45’ to 3˚ 37’ South and 144˚ to 145˚ 15’ East. Covers 2201N Sheet no. 35, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ 5’ to 2˚ 58’ South and 142˚ 40’ to 144˚ East. Covers 2201N Sheet no. 36, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ 50’ to 3˚ South and 141˚ to 142˚ East. Covers 2201N Sheet no. 37, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 2˚ 30’ South and 137˚ to 141˚ East. Covers 2201N and 2301N Sheet no. 38, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ to 1˚ 19’ South and 139˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2201N and 2301N Sheet no. 39, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 2˚ 30’ North and 134˚ to 138˚ East. Covers 2301N Sheet no. 40, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ 30’ to 2˚ 39’ North and 132˚ to 134˚ East. Covers 2301N Sheet no. 41, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ 10’ to 3˚ 17’ North and 129˚ to 131˚ East. Covers 2301N, 2302N, 2401N, and 2402N. Sheet no. 43, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 3˚ 57’ North and 127˚ to 129˚ East. Covers 2302N, Sheet no. 44, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 3˚ 57’ North and 127˚ to 129˚ East. Covers 2302N, Sheet no. 45, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 4˚ 44’ North and 126˚ to 127˚ 10’ East. Covers 2401N and 2402N, Sheet no. 46, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 5˚ 42’ North and 124˚ 30’ to 126˚ 10’ East. Covers 2402N, Sheet no. 47, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 6˚ North and 122˚ to 124˚ 35’ East. Covers 2402N, Sheet no. 48, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ 20’ to 6˚ 54’ North and 122˚ to 123˚ 10’ East. Covers 2404N, Sheet no. 49, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ 41’ to 7˚ 4’ North and 121˚ 32’ to 122˚ 27’ East. Covers 2402N, Sheet no. 50, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 8˚ 20’ North and 118˚ to 121˚ 50’ East. Covers 2402N and 2502N, Sheet no. 51, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ to 8˚ 18’ North and 117˚ to 119˚ 15’ East. Covers 2502N, Sheet no. 52, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ to 8˚ 15’ North and 116˚ to 117˚ 32’ East. Covers 2502N, Sheet no. 53, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ to 6˚ North and 118˚ to 119˚ 45’ East. Covers 2502N, Sheet no. 54, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ 5’ to 5˚ 30’ North and 119˚ 32’ to 119˚ 47’ East. Covers 2502N, Sheet no. 55, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ 3’ to 5˚ 10’ North and 119˚ 25’ to 121˚ 08’ East. Covers 2402N and 2502N, Sheet no. 56, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 2˚ 25’ to 4˚ 52’ North and 120˚ to 124˚ 25’ East. Covers 2402N and 2401N, Sheet no. 57, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 2˚ 15’ to 3˚ 23’ North and 124˚ to 124˚ 26’ East. Covers 2401N, Sheet no. 58, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ 18’ to 7˚ 7’ North and 116˚ to 116˚ 47’ East. Covers 2502N, Sheet no. 59, 17 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 3˚ South and 139˚ to 145˚ East. Sheet no. 61, August/September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ North to 3˚ South and 116˚ to 116˚ East. Covers 2301N, Sheet no. 62, July/August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ North and 123˚ to 133˚ East. Sheet no. 63, August/September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 6˚ North and 119˚ to 123˚ East. 2301N, 2302N, 2401N, and 2402N. Sheet no. 64, July/August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 9˚ North and 115˚ to 125˚ East. 2402N and 2502N. Sheet no. 65, August/September 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ North to 7˚ South and 110˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet no. 67, 20 August to 14 September 1961.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ North and 171˚ to 172˚ West. Aires V, 9 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 18˚ North and 175˚ to 175˚ 50’ West. Aires V, 10-11 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 18˚ North and 175˚ 30’ to 176˚ 20’ West. Aires V, 11 May 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 28˚ to 29˚ North and 159˚ to 161˚ East. Soundings from Aires Legs V and VII. Chart no. 2, 28 May and 1 –3 August 1971.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 150˚ West. Color-coded data.
a. Paper. b. From 38˚ to 41˚ South and 138˚ to 143˚ East. Covers 2207S. 17-18 Nov., Sheet no.1
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 44˚ South and 140˚ to 144˚ East. Covers 2208S. 18-19 November, Sheet no.2.
a. Paper. b. From 41˚ to 45˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2308S. 19-24 November, Sheet no.3.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 43˚ South and 130˚ to 133˚ East. Covers 2307 - 2308S. 13 December, Sheet no.4.
a. Paper. b. From 43˚ to 46˚ South and 132˚ to 136˚ East. Covers 2308S 25-28 November, Sheet no.4.
a. Paper. b. From 45˚ to 47˚ South and 130˚ to 134˚ East. Covers 2308 - 2309S 28-29 November, Sheet no.5.
a. Paper. b. From 47˚ to 49˚ South and 127˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2409S 29-30 November, Sheet no.6.
a. Paper. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 126˚ to 129˚ East. Covers 2408-2409S 10-12 December, Sheet no.6.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 139˚ East. Covers 2309-2310S 30 November - 3 December, Sheet no.7.
a. Paper. b. From 53˚ to 57˚ South and 130˚ to 136˚ East. Covers 2310-2311S 3-8 December, Sheet no.8.
a. Paper. b. From 56˚ South and 134˚ East. 6-8 December, Sheet no.9.
a. Paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 128˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2410-2411S 9 December, Sheet no.10.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 127˚ to 129˚ East. Covers 2409-2410S 10 December, Sheet no.11.
a. Paper. b. From 43˚ to 46˚ South and 126˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2408S 12-13 December, Sheet no.12.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 130˚ to 139˚ East. Covers 2306-2307S 14-16 December, Sheet no.13.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 132˚ to 139˚ East. Covers 2306-2307S 21-23 December 1975, Sheet no.14.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 131˚ to 133˚ East. Covers 2307-2308S 24-25 December 1975, Sheet no.15.
a. Paper. b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 130˚ to 132˚ East. Covers 2308S 25-27 December 1975, Sheet no.16.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 51˚ South and 130˚ to 131˚ East. Covers 2310-2410S 27-28 December 1975, Sheet no.17.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 53˚ South and 128˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2110S 6-7 January 1976, Sheet no.18.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 51˚ South and 124˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2409-2410S 28-30 December 1975, Sheet no.18.
a. Paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 124˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2401-2404S 8-9 January 1976, Sheet no.19.
a. Paper. b. From 48˚ to 50˚ South and 120˚ to 125˚ East. Covers 24019S 30 December 1975 - 1 January 1976, Sheet no.19.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2509-2510S 1-4 January 1976, Sheet no.20.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 54˚ South and 117˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2511S 4 January 1976, Sheet no.21.
a. Paper. b. From 53˚ to 55˚ South and 120˚ to 129˚ East. Covers 2410 - 2411S 5-6 January 1976, Sheet no.22.
a. Paper. b. From 43˚ to 45˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2408S 9-11 January 1976, Sheet no.23.
a. Paper. b. From 41˚ to 44˚ South and 120˚ to 115˚ East. Covers 2508S 12-13 January 1976, Sheet no.24.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 112˚ to 116˚ East. Covers 2506 - 2507S 13-15 January 1976, Sheet no.25.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ South and 111˚ to 116˚ East. Covers 2506S 16 January 1976, Sheet no.26.
a. Paper. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 114˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2506S 20-22 January 1976, Sheet no.27.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 114˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2506 - 2507S 22-25 January 1976, Sheet no.28.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 39˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2406 - 2407S 26 January – 8 February 1976, Sheet no.29.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 36˚ South and 125˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2406S 8 -14 February 1976, Sheet no.30.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 36˚ South and 120˚ to 123˚ East. Covers 2406S 30 January – 6 February 1976, Sheet no.30.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 35˚ South and 125˚ to 127˚ East. Covers 2406S 9-11 February 1976, Sheet no.31.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 126˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2406-2407S 11-13 February 1976, Sheet no.32.
a. Paper. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ South and 130˚ to 132˚ East. Covers 2306S 14-15 February 1976, Sheet no.33.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 41˚ South and 131˚ to 141˚ East. Covers 2306-2307S 15-17 February 1976, Sheet no.34.
a. Paper. b. From 38˚ to 41˚ South and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Covers 2306-2307S 18-19 February 1976, Sheet no.35.
a. Paper. b. From 38˚ to 40˚ South and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Covers 2207S 23-24 February 1976, Sheet no.36.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 39˚ South and 130˚ to 140˚ East. Covers 2407S 24-26 February 1976, Sheet no.37.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 120˚ to 130˚ East. Covers 2407S 26-28 February 1976, Sheet no.38.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 110˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2507S 28 February – 2 March 1976, Sheet no.39.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 34˚ South and 106˚ to 108˚ East. Covers 2606S 7-8 March 1976, Sheet no.40.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 36˚ South and 106˚ to 110˚ East. Covers 2606S 3-13 March 1976, Sheet no.40.
a. Paper. b. From 31˚ to 33˚ South and 110˚ to 116˚ East. Covers 2506S 13-15 March 1976, Sheet no.41.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ North to 20˚ South and 165˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 25˚ North and 79˚ to 82˚ West. Covers the Nicholas channel.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Covers the Campeche Bank.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 87˚ to 91˚ West. “Vema tied up to oil well derrick.”
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ West. Covers 1005N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to 23˚ North and 90˚ to 95˚ West. Covers 1004N. Includes hand-written text.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 16˚ to 19˚ North and 81˚ to 87˚ West. Covers N5514-4. Includes a pencil sketch of a power boat.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 9˚ to 14˚ North and 79˚ to 82˚ West. Covers N5510-3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 74˚ to 80˚ West. Covers 0802N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ to 8˚ North and 80˚ to 86˚ West. Covers 0902N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ South to 3˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Covers 0901N.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Covers 0903S. Includes a picture of a boat/car, with the caption, “why the Vema 17 crew nearly mutinied.” Includes a pen and ink sketch of a double-chinned female snout on way to day with a male “snarf” – the male “snarf” has gone on a date with a willful haired futz.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 22˚ South and 80˚ to 86˚ West. Covers 0904S.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to 23˚ North and 70˚ to 80˚ West. 2 May 1968. Covers N7019-6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 23˚ to 27˚ North and 70˚ to 80˚ West. 2 May 1968. Covers N7023-7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 34˚ North and 70˚ to 81˚ West. 2 May 1968. Covers N7030-9.
181 items
a. Frosted acetate b. From 50˚ ? and 70˚ to 84˚ West. Corrected meters not rounded off.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ North to 20˚ South and 80˚ to 125˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 23˚ North to 25˚ South and 75˚ to 100˚ West. Note: "Dishon from Israel was first man to use computerized profiles."
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 145˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 60˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ East. Map #3. Includes data from the Robert Conrad cruises 10-8, 11-8, 12-07, 12-20 and 14-5.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 24˚ South and 133˚ to 150˚ West. Produced December 3, 1975. Selected soundings in meters.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ North to 5˚ South and 70˚ to 84˚ West. Data in uncorrected fathoms.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 63˚ North and 120˚ West to 165˚ East. Data collected from Robert Conrad 10-08 to 10-11, 11-09, 12-07, 12-20, 12-22, 13-03, 14-05, 15-01, and Eltanin 30.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. October, 1975. 1:10,000,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ North and 141˚ to 143˚ East. Copyright, London 1961. Plotting area 167/14. Covers US Navy Index 2203N. 1:250,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ North and 143˚ to 145˚ East. Copyright, London 1961. Plotting area 167/15. Covers US Navy Index 2203N. 1:250,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 12˚ to 13˚ North and 143˚ to 145˚ East. Copyright, London 1961. Plotting area 167/20. Covers US Navy Index 2203N. 1:250,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 6˚ to 7˚ North and 143˚ to 145˚ East. Copyright, London 1961. Plotting area 198/01. Covers US Navy Index 2203N. 1:250,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 26˚ 50" to 28˚ North and 92˚ to 93˚ West. Chart 8-6501, Part 1. 1:120,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 25˚ 50" North to 17˚ 50" North and 94˚ to 96˚ West. Chart 8- 6499a. 1:240,000
a. Negative print. b. Plate IX of the Snellius Expedition Vol 5, Part 1. Track lines indicate bottom conditions. 1:5,000,000
a. Paper. b. From 30" to 3˚ 30" North and 119˚ to 124˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 7˚ North and 120˚ 30" to 125˚ 30" East.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 73˚ to 74˚ West. Item 1 of 26. 2 May 1972
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 74˚ to 88˚ West. Item 2 of 26. 2 May 1972. All area 23.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 66˚ South and 82˚ to 87˚ West. Item 3 of 26. 2 May 1972. Area 23 and 24.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 80˚ to 84˚ West. Item 4 of 26. 2 May 1972. Area 24 and 25.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 75˚ to 81˚ West. Item 5 of 26. 5 May 1972. Areas 25 and 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 68˚ to 76˚ West. Item 6 of 26. 5 May 1972. Areas 26 thru 29.
a. Ozalid. b. From 65˚ to 69˚ South and 67˚ to 71˚ West. Item 7 of 26. 5 May 1972. All area 29.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 69˚ to 78˚ West. Item 8 of 26. 5 May 1972. Areas 23 thru 29.
a. Ozalid. b. From 65˚ to 69˚ South and 70˚ to 79˚ West. Item 9 of 26. 5 May 1972. Areas 27 thru 29.
a. Ozalid. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 78˚ to 95˚ West. Item 10 of 26. 5 May 1972. Areas 26 and 27.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 95˚ to 107˚ West. Item 11 of 26. 8 May 1972. Areas 26 and 27.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 107˚ to 114˚ West. Item 12 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 25 and 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 113˚ to 120˚ West. Item 13 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 24 and 25.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 119˚ to 127˚ West. Item 14 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 23 and 24.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 126˚ to 132˚ West. Item 15 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 23 and 43.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 131˚ to 133˚ West. Item 16 of 26. 2 May 1972. All area 23.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 5=6˚ South and 132˚ to 134˚ West. Item 17 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 23 thru 25.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 134˚ to 136˚ West. Item 18 of 26. 2 May 1972. Areas 25 and 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 135˚ to 140˚ West. Item 19 of 26. 8 May 1972. Areas 26 and 27.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 135˚ to 140˚ West. Item 19 of 26. 8 May 1972. Areas 26 and 27.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 139˚ to 145˚ West. Item 20 of 26. 9 May 1972. Areas 25 thru 27.
a. Ozalid. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 144˚ to 167˚ West. Item 21 of 26. 9 May 1972. Areas 26 thru 28.
a. Ozalid. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 166˚ to 173˚ West. Item 22 of 26. 8 May 1972. Areas 25 and 26.
a. Ozalid. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 172˚ to 179˚ West. Item 23 of 26. 8 May 1972. Areas 24 and 25.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 178˚ West to 174˚ East. Item 24 of 26. 9 May 1972. All area 24.
a. Ozalid. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 172˚ to 176˚ East. Item 25 of 26. 9 May 1972. Areas 23 and 24.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40 to 45˚ South and 174˚ to 176˚ East. Item 26 of 26. 9 May 1972. Areas 42, 43 and 23.
a. Paper
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 75˚ South and 150˚ West˚ to 120˚ East. Spot soundings and tracks around Antarctica from the Russians.
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. Scale: 1:10,000,000
a. Ozalid. b. Notes: "Picked depths of the Western Pacific. The step that preceded province map. Original will be on acetate."
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 11˚ North to 20˚ South and 70˚ to 84˚ West. Hand-colored coastal information and some annotated fracture zones and ridges. Attaches to 0053B.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 20˚ to 46˚ South and 70˚ to 84˚ West. Hand-colored coastal information and some annotated fracture zones and ridges. Attaches to 0053A.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 36˚ South and 114˚ to 115˚ East. Sheet GG, 22 October 1970.
a. Ozalid. b. From 35˚ to 36˚ South and 108˚ to 109˚ East. Sheet HH.
a. Ozalid. b. From 44˚ to 45˚ South and 106˚ to 107˚ East. Sheet L.
a. Ozalid. b. From 54˚ to 55˚ South and 111˚ to 112˚ East. Sheet P.
a. Ozalid. b. From 55˚ to 56˚ South and 112˚ to 113˚ East. Covers Area 26. Sheet Q.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1904S. Soundings sheet.
b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1904S. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1902S. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1902S. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Covers 2001N. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 2001N. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 4˚ North and 166˚ to 170˚ East. Covers 2001N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2103N. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2103N. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2104N. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2104N. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2105N. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Covers 2105N. Province map sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2205N. Soundings sheet.
a. Ozalid. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2205N. Province map sheet.
a. Film negative. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. Covers 1403N. Scale of 1:1,000,000.
a. Film negative. b. From 3˚ to 11˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Covers 1502N. Scale of 1:1,000,000.
a. Film negative. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Covers 1502N. Scale of 1:1,000,000.
a. Film negative. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Covers 1502N. Scale of 1:1,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 3˚ South to 10˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. Rolled item.
a. Negative print. b. Equatorial projection. Scale of 1:40,000,000.
a. Positive print. b. Equatorial projection. Scale of 1:40,000,000.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ 50’ to 7˚ North and 84˚ 30’ to 86˚ West. 0902 N, Site 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ 50’ to 7˚ North and 84˚ 30’ to 86˚ West. 0902 N, Site 3. 14-18 January.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 45˚ South and 130˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Adjacent to South and West Australia.
a. Frosted acetate. b. South of Sumatra and Java.
a. Frosted acetate. b. In vicinity of Tasmania.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 24˚ North and 134˚ to 140˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 39˚ North and 124˚ to 130˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 9˚ to 18˚ North and 130˚ to 136˚ West. Covers 1407 A and B I.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 29˚ to 33˚ North and 140˚ to 146˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 143˚ to 150˚ West. Covers 1505, N and S, I.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 26˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ West. Covers 1605 N and S.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 173˚ to 175˚ East. 1 December 1969, Sheet 1 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 160˚ to 168˚ East. 3-4 December 1969, Sheet 2 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 168˚ to 174˚ East. 2 December 1969, Sheet 3 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 149˚ to 155˚ East. 6-7 December 1969, Sheet 4 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 155˚ to 161˚ East. 5 December 1969, Sheet 5 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 138˚ to 144˚ East. 9-10 December 1969, Sheet 6 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 144˚ to 150˚ East. 8 December 1969, Sheet 7 of 7. Navigation sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 166˚ to 174˚ East. 25-27 June 1970, Sheet 1 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 160˚ to 167˚ East. 28 June to 3 July 1970, Sheet 2 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 156˚ to 166˚ East. 5-14 July 1970, Sheet 3 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 165˚ to 175˚ East. 7 July 1970, Sheet 4 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 156˚ to 166˚ East. 18-23 July 1970, Sheet 5 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 157˚ to 165˚ East. 20-27 July 1970, Sheet 6 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 55˚ to 59˚ South and 158˚ to 160˚ East. 26 July 1970, Sheet 7 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 150˚ to 159˚ East. 27-28 July 1970, Sheet 8 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 144˚ to 150˚ East. 29-30 July 1970, Sheet 9 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 133˚ to 144˚ East. 31 July to 1 August 1970, Sheet 10 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 122˚ to 133˚ East. 2-4 August 1970, Sheet 11 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 65˚ South and 119˚ to 133˚ East. 5-6 August 1970, Sheet 12 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 119˚ to 121˚ East. 7-8 August 1970, Sheet 13 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 119˚ to 120˚ East. 8-9 August 1970, Sheet 14 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ South and 119˚ to 120˚ East. 11 August 1970, Sheet 15 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ South and 119˚ to 121˚ East. 12-13 August 1970, Sheet 16 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 119˚ to 120˚ East. 14-15 August 1970, Sheet 17 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 40˚ South and 115˚ to 120˚ East. 16 August 1970, Sheet 18 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 35˚ South and 114˚ to 116˚ East. 17-18 August 1970, Sheet 19 of 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 57˚ to 60˚ South and 122˚ to 130˚ East. 4 August 1970, Sheet 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 119˚ to 123˚ East. 5-6 August 1970, Sheet 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 66˚ South and 118˚ to 122˚ East. 7-8 August 1970, Sheet 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 118˚ to 122˚ East. 9-10 August 1970, Sheet 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ to 53˚ South and 118˚ to 122˚ East. 11 August 1970, Sheet 14.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 36˚ South and 151˚ to 156˚ East. 28 June 1971, Sheet 1.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 40˚ South and 146˚ to 156˚ East. 30 June to 2 July 1971, Sheet 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 136˚ to 146˚ East. 3-4 July 1971, Sheet 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 126˚ to 136˚ East. 5-6 July 1971, Sheet 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 116˚ to 126˚ East. 7-8 August 1971, Sheet 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 106˚ to 116˚ East. 9-11 August 1971, Sheet 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 97˚ to 106˚ East. 12-14 July 1971, Sheet 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 39˚ South and 94˚ to 99˚ East. 15 July 1971, Sheet 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ South and 95˚ to 98˚ East. 16-17 July 1971, Sheet 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ South and 97˚ to 101˚ East. 13-17 July 1971, Sheet 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 28˚ to 32˚ South and 92˚ to 99˚ East. 9-19 July 1971, Sheet 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 31˚ to 32˚ South and 93˚ to 94˚ East. 22 July to 9 August 1971, Sheet 11a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 32˚ to 35˚ South and 91˚ to 96˚ East. 24 July 1971, Sheet 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ South and 91˚ to 95˚ East. 24 July 1971, Sheet 12a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 36˚ to 39˚ South and 89˚ to 94˚ East. 25-26 July 1971, Sheet 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 41˚ South and 77˚ to 89˚ East. 28 July to 1 August 1971, Sheet 14.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 39˚ South and 77˚ to 78˚ East. 1 August 1971, Sheet 14a.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ to 37˚ South and 78˚ to 85˚ East. 2-4 August 1971, Sheet 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 33˚ South and 83˚ to 92˚ East. 5-8 August 1971, Sheet 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 31˚ to 35˚ South and 101˚ to 109˚ East. 14-16 August 1971, Sheet 17.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 31˚ to 33˚ South and 109˚ to 116˚ East. 18-19 August 1971, Sheet 18.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 25˚ to 45˚ South and 75˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 19.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 100˚ to 180˚ East. Perth to Christ Church, Index Sheet.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 31˚ to 35˚ South and 107˚ to 116˚ East. 8-11 November 1971. Chart 1 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 38˚ South and 103˚ to 108˚ East. 12 November 1971. Chart 2 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 13-15 November 1971. Chart 3 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 42˚ to 46˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 16-17 November 1971. Chart 4 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 43˚ to 46˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 18-19 November 1971. Chart 5 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ to 53˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 20 November 1971. Chart 6 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 21-22 November 1971. Chart 7 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 103˚ to 107˚ East. 23 November 1971. Chart 8 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 103˚ to 114˚ East. 24-27 November 1971. Chart 9 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 63˚ South and 114˚ to 121˚ East. 29 November 1971. Chart 10 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 119˚ to 130˚ East. 30 November to 2 December 1971. Chart 11 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 126˚ to 136˚ East. 3-4 December 1971. Chart 11a of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 64˚ South and 130˚ to 142˚ East. 5-6 December 1971. Chart 12 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 136˚ to 143˚ East. 5-6 December 1971. Chart 12a of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 63˚ to 66˚ South and 143˚ to 147˚ East. 7-9 December 1971. Chart 13 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 61˚ to 63˚ South and 143˚ to 150˚ East. 10 December 1971. Chart 14 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 150˚ to 158˚ East. 11-12 December 1971. Chart 15 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 158˚ to 167˚ East. 13 December 1971. Chart 16 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 65˚ to 67˚ South and 163˚ to 172˚ East. 14-15 December 1971. Chart 17 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 62˚ to 65˚ South and 167˚ to 172˚ East. 16-21 December 1971. Chart 18 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 62˚ South and 167˚ to 172˚ East. 18-22 December 1971. Chart 19 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 56˚ to 59˚ South and 167˚ to 172˚ East. 23 December 1971. Chart 20 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 52˚ to 56˚ South and 168˚ to 175˚ East. 24-29 December 1971. Chart 21 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 52˚ South and 170˚ to 175˚ East. 30 December 1971. Chart 22 of 23.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 43˚ to 48˚ South and 170˚ to 179˚ East. 31 December to 3 January 1971. Chart 23 of 23.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 90˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 0˚ to 90˚ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 19˚ 15’ to 20˚ 15’ North and 120˚ 55’ to 122˚ 30’ East. H-7376, P1716.
a. Positive print. b. From 32˚ 50’ to 33˚ 20’ North and 124˚ 45’ to 121˚ 15’ West. USCGS Ship Pioneer. July 1955. Includes Classification notations.
a. Positive print. b. From 33˚ 40’ to 34˚ 10’ North and 30˚ to 31˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 50˚ North to 55˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West.
461 items
a. Frosted acetate b. From 11˚ to 23˚ North and 107˚ to 122˚ East. Profiles 1 thru 18 shown.
a. Film negative b. Scripps Institution of Oceanography for the Bell Telephone Laboratories. Distribution and statistical analysis of sea-floor relief in the Northeast Pacific Ocean. December 1965, Chart No. 3A (North). 1:5,990,157
a. Ozalid. b. From 36˚ South to 10˚ North and 70˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Paper. b. Thirteen profiles (A-T) shown. Selected depths annotated.
a. Paper. b. 6 May to 6 June 1971
a. Ozalid. b. Shows profile of topography and magnetics in an area from the Marcus Island Archipelagic Apron, Mariana Trench, Ita Maital Guyot, Solomon Plateau and Fiji Plateau.
a. Ozalid. b. From Volume 5, Part 1, Plate 8. Sections of the sea bottom, redrawn from construction based on echo soundings by F. Pinke, L. J. Veidman and P. H. Milo.Profile 24 covers the Pacific Ocean, 90-93 the Banda Sea, and 94-109 the Flores Sea.
a. Ozalid
a. Graph paper b. From 13˚ 32" to 19˚ 57" North and 123˚ 29" to 144˚ 47" East. 1964
a. Ozalid. b. Profile 'B'.
a. Ozalid. b. Profile 'A'.
a. Graph paper b. 24 January 1975. Topo pl0t and Ans.
a. Graph paper b. 5 February 1975. Topo.
a. Graph paper b. 21 January 1975. Topo.
a. Graph paper b. 29 January 1975. Topo.
a. Graph paper b. 29 January 1975. Topo.
a. Graph paper b. 4 November 1974. Topo.
a. Graph paper b. From 30˚ 49.5" North and 141˚ 58" East to 30˚ 44" North and 142˚ 49" East. Uncorrected PDR soundings.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 32˚ 32" South and 73˚ 5" West to 35˚ 01" South and 71˚ 48" West. Uncorrected PDR soundings.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 32˚ 32" South and 73˚ 5" West to 35˚ 01" South and 71˚ 48" West. Uncorrected PDR soundings. Corrected track miles.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 35˚ 26.3" South and 74˚ 36" West to 36˚ 05" South and 73˚ 22" West. Uncorrected PDR soundings.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 35˚ 26.3" South and 74˚ 36" West to 36˚ 05" South and 73˚ 22" West. Uncorrected PDR soundings. Corrected track miles.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 30˚ 19.5" South and 73˚ 14.5" West to 32˚ 57.7" South and 72˚ 4.2" West. Uncorrected PDR Soundings.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper b. From 30˚ 19.5" South and 73˚ 14.5" West to 32˚ 57.7" South and 72˚ 4.2" West. Uncorrected PDR Soundings. Highlights sea level and shows thousand fathom lines.
a. Graph paper
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 1 - 5, 6 and 7 (Glacier), 8 (Vema 17), 9 (Vema 15). 6 June 1961. Sheet No. 1.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 10 - 16 (Vema 15), 17 (Baird). 6 September 1961. Sheet No. 2.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 18 - 20, 23 and 24 (Vema 15), 20 and 22 (Baird). 6 June 1961. Sheet No. 3.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 26 (Vema 15); 25, 28 and 29 (Baird); 27, 30 and 31 (Horizon). 20 June 1961. Sheet No. 4.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 32, 33, and 37 (Horizon); 34 - 36 (Atlantis). 26 June 1961. Sheet No. 5.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 38 and 44 (Horizon); 39 - 43 (Baird). Sheet No. 6.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 45 and 46 (Baird); 47, 48 and 51 (Horizon); 49 and 50 (Vema 15). Sheet No. 7.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 25˚ to 41˚ South and 70˚ to 77˚ West. Profile tracks 44-67 along west coast of South America. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 40˚ to 60˚ South and 63˚ to 77˚ West. Profile tracks 67-80 along Southern tip of South America. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 4˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 87˚ West. Profile tracks 1&2 in Gulf of Panama. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 10˚ North and 76˚ to 84˚ West. Profile tracks 1-8 in the Gulf of Panama. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 3˚ North to 7˚ South and 79˚ to 87˚ West. Profile tracks 1-7 Publication graphic. Index for 0031.10
a. Frosted acetate b. From 3˚ North to 7˚ South and 79˚ to 87˚ West. Profile tracks 1-7 Publication graphic. Indexed on 0031.9
a. Frosted acetate b. From 14˚ to 27˚ South and 75˚ to 92˚ West. Profile tracks 1-8. Publication graphic. Shown in 0031.12
a. Frosted acetate b. From 14˚ to 27˚ South and 75˚ to 92˚ West. Vema 15, Vema 17, Horizon and Baird profiles 1-8. Publication graphic. Indexed on 0031.11
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 1-3 (Horizon); 4 (Baird); 5-8 (Vema 15); and 9 (Vema 17). Publication graphic, 4 October 1961.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 52, 54 and 55 (Baird); 53 and 59 (Horizon); 56-58 (Vema 15). Sheet No. 8, 3 August 1961.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 60, 62, 65 and 66 (Vema 17); 61 and 64 (Vema 15); 63 (Baird). Sheet No. 9.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 67 and 71 (Vema 17); 68- 70, 72 and 73 (Vema 15). Sheet No. 10.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles: 74 and 75 (Discovery II); 76 and 77 (Vema 17); 88 (Vema 16); 79 (Meteor); and 80 (Capt. Canepa). Sheet No. 11.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 2˚ to 10˚ North and 77˚ to 85˚ West. Profile tracks 1-9 in Gulf of Panama. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 12˚ South to 10˚ North and 77˚ to 87˚ West. Profile tracks 1-25 in Gulf of Panama and along west coast of South America. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 12˚ South to 3˚ North and 77˚ to 87˚ West. Profile tracks 10-25 along west coast of South America. Publication graphic.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ to 27˚ South and 70˚ to 82˚ West. Profile tracks 24-49 along west coast of South America. Publication graphic.
a. Film negative b. Profiles 1 - 23. Signed by Marie Tharp
a. Tracing paper b. Profiles 1 - 23. Signed by Marie Tharp.
a. Film negative b. Profiles 1 - 24. Signed by Marie Tharp.
a. Ozalid. b. Profiles 1 - 24. Signed by Marie Tharp.
a. Graph paper b. Nautical miles from Point Reyes, California
a. Graph paper
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Displays topographic data plotted perpendicular to the ship tracks in corrected meters. Fracture zones are indicated by dashed lines. Magnetic anomalies are indicated by stripped patterns.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles A thru G shown.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Tracks with profiles plotted with selected soundings.
a. Linen
a. Linen
a. Tracing paper b. Profiles 1 - 19 shown.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles 1 - 11 shown.
a. Frosted acetate b. Profiles 12 - 17 shown.
a. Frosted acetate b. Walvis Ridge, Rockall Ridge, Madagascar, Carnegie Ridge, Nasca Ridge and Iquique Ridges shown.
a. Frosted acetate b. Four profiles shown.
a. Tracing paper b. Notes: "The original profiles were plotted at 100:1 and were 20 inches wide. These profiles have been correlated peak for peak, lined up and shot down in size to this composite worksheet. This is a negative of a worksheet (the original was much larger). The finished, inked drawing for publication will probably be in the Pacific ocean bin. Twenty five profiles lined up to work with 170˚ East and 60˚ South across the Mid- Oceanic Ridge in the southeast Pacific Ocean."
a. Frosted acetate
a. Tracing paper b. Four profiles across the New Zealand Plateau, five profiles across the Mid-Oceanic Ridge, and four profiles across the Chile Ridge.
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print. b. Shows profiles C-1 thru C-6
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-1
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-2
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-3
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-4
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-5
a. Negative print. b. Profile C-6
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Positive print b. Photographic reductions of Vema 2 #850 - #877
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Negative print. b. Shows profiles A-1, A-2, A-8 thru A-12
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-1
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-2
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-8
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-9
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-10
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-11
a. Negative print. b. Profile A-12
a. Negative print. b. Shows profiles B-3 thru B-6, B-13 thru B-14.
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-3
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-4
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-5
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-6
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-13
a. Negative print. b. Profile B-14
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 11 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 12 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 12 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 13 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 13 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 1, 15 June 1969
a. Film negative b. End air gun record No. 2, 16 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 4, 23 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 4, 23/24 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 4, 25 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 26/27 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 27 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 27 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 28 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 28 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 28 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 5, 30 June 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 6, 1/2 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 6, 1/2 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 7, 4 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 7, 4 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 7, 4 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 7, 8 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 8, 11 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 8, 12 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 8, 12/13 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 7, 4 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin air gun record No. 10, 19 July 1969
a. Film negative b. End of air gun record No. 10, 20 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin of air gun record No. 11, 20 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Air gun record No. 11, 21 July 1969
a. Film negative b. End of air gun record No. 11, 21 July 1969
a. Film negative b. End of air gun record No. 12, 23 July 1969
a. Film negative b. Begin of air gun record No. 13, 25 July 1969
a. Film negative b. End of air gun record No. 13, 28 July 1969
a. Film negative
a. Film negative
a. Film negative
a. Film negative
a. Film negative
a. Paper. b. Profiles A thru F, over the Campbell Plateau, 1965
a. Film positive b. Covers Auckland Islands and Cathedral Banks
a. Film positive b. Covers Pukaki Rise, Campbell Islands Shelf and the Sub Antarctic Slope
a. Film positive b. Covers Pukaki Rise, Campbell Islands Shelf and the Sub Antarctic Slope
a. Film positive b. Covers Pukaki Rise, Campbell Islands Shelf, Bounty Platform and the Sub Antarctic Slope. 1965
a. Film negative b. Covers the Campbell Plateau, the Sub Antarctic Slope and the Southwest Pacific Basin.
a. Film negative b. Covers the Bounty Platform, the Sub Antarctic Slope and the Southwestern Pacific Basin.
a. Film positive b. Endeavor profile A covers the Campbell Plateau, Cathedral Depression and the Auckland Slope. Endeavor profile C covers the Campbell Plateau the Sub Antarctic Slope, the Southwestern Pacific Basin and a Seamount. Endeavor D profile covers the Campbell Plateau and the Endeavor Banks. Wilhoite profile covers the Campbell Plateau, the Sub Antarctic Slope and the Southwestern Pacific Basin.
a. Paper. b. Profiles A and B (Pukaki), C and D (Endeavor), and E (Taranui)
a. Film negative b. Four profiles showing Campbell Plateau, Snares Depression and the Auckland Islands Shelf.
a. Film positive b. Five profiles showing Campbell Plateau, Snares Depression and the Auckland Islands Shelf.
a. Paper. b. Eight profiles showing Antipodes Islands, Bounty Platform and the Pukaki Saddle
a. Film positive b. Eight profiles showing Antipodes Islands, Bounty Platform and the Pukaki Saddle
a. Film negative b. Eight profiles showing Antipodes Islands, Bounty Platform and the Pukaki Saddle
a. Paper. b. Profile A shows Macquarie Ridge, the Emerald Basin and the Auckland Slopes.
a. Film positive b. Profile A shows Macquarie Ridge, the Emerald Basin and the Auckland Slopes.
a. Paper. b. Profiles A thru D cover the Auckland Slopes
a. Film negative b. Profiles A, B and C cover the Auckland Slopes
a. Film positive b. Profiles A, B, C and D cover the Auckland Slopes
a. Paper. b. Four profiles shown
a. Film positive b. Two profiles (A and B) covering the Abyssal Hill Province shown.
a. Film positive b. Two profiles (C and D) covering the Abyssal Hill Province shown.
a. Film negative b. Profiles B, C and D are shown.
a. Paper. b. Nine profiles of South Pacific Ocean area near Antarctica
a. Film negative
a. Film positive
a. Film positive
a. Film negative b. O-P and Q-R are covered by profiles #540 to #550. M-N covered by profile #590.
a. Paper. b. Covers four profiles of Macquarie Ridge, Solander Trough and the Auckland Slopes
a. Film positive b. Covers four profiles of Macquarie Ridge, Solander Trough and the Auckland Slopes
a. Paper. b. Two profiles (A and B) covering the Continental Rise and the Abyssal Plain
a. Film positive b. Two profiles (A and B) covering the Continental Rise and the Abyssal Plain
a. Paper. b. Six topographic profiles and six magnetic intensity profiles shown
a. Film positive b. Six topographic profiles and six magnetic intensity profiles shown
a. Film negative b. Six topographic profiles and six magnetic intensity profiles shown
a. Frosted acetate
a. Frosted acetate b. Covers an area from 10˚ North to 60˚ South
a. Frosted acetate b. Covers an area from 10˚ North to 25˚ South and from 70˚ to 85˚ West.
a. Film positive
a. Film positive
a. Film positive
a. Frosted acetate b. From 40˚ North to 65˚ South and 15˚ to 40˚ West. Nine profiles showing depths in meters.
a. Graph paper. b. Covers 1607S. In uncorrected fathoms, 18-21 July 1967. Sheets A- K
a. Graph paper. b. From 62˚ 53' South and 173˚ 50' East. Scale: 40:1.
a. Graph paper. b. From 0˚ to 16˚ 40' North. a. Graph paper. b. From 0˚ to 16˚ 40' North. a. Graph paper. b. From 0˚ to 16˚ 40' North.
a. Graph paper. b. At 42˚ North.
a. Graph paper. b. In fathoms.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 5˚ North. Figure 7. Enlargement of 0198.
a. Graph paper. b. No other identification information.
a. Graph paper. b. No other identification information.
a. Graph paper. b. No other identification information.
a. Graph paper. b. From Wellington to Samoa. Number 12.
a. Graph paper. b. Covers Mathews areas 42-44. Ship 34458, May, Number 1.
a. Graph paper. b. Covers Mathews areas 42 and 43. Scripps "No Holiday", Number 4.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Covers sheets 40, 41, 43, 44, 52, and 53. Color-coded profiles.
a. Ozalid. b. Profile A-B from 125˚ to 135˚ West and Profile C-D, from 145˚ to 155˚ West. Covers Eltanin Fracture Zone and shows camera stations, pillow lava and ripples. Includes an index. b. Covers sheets 40, 41, 43, 44, 52, and 53. Color-coded profiles.
a. Ozalid. b. Profiles I and II. Shows camera stations, pillow lava and ripples, scour marks and suspended matter, outcrops, rocks and manganese nodules, current marks, and rafted rocks on muddy bottom. Includes an index.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Profiles 1 through 9 and 16 to 22.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Panama to Hawaii, 3013.
a. Ozalid paper. b. SW Pacific and Eastern Indian Oceans. 11 sheets.
a. Tracing paper. b. Wellington to Valparaiso.
a. Tracing and Ozalid paper. b. 3007.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3008.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3009.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3011.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3012.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3014.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3016.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3017.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3018.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3019.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3020.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3021.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3029.
a. Ozalid paper.
a. Ozalid paper.
a. Ozalid paper.
a. Ozalid paper.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Hobart to Fremantle.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Anta – Faoasta – Wellington.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Fremantle to Fremantle.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Manila to Townsville.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Tahiti to Townsville.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Fremantle to Fremantle.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Yokahaka to Adak.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Fremantle to Joicohama.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Adak to Victoria.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Adak to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Tokyo to Adak.
a. Ozalid paper.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Kodiak to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Suva to Mar del Plata.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Sasebo to Hakodate.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Honolulu to Suva. (extremely fragile)
a. Ozalid paper. b. Honolulu to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Honolulu to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3001.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3003.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3002.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3004. Midway to Tokyo.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3026. Tahiti to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3024. Tokyo to Okinawa.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3025. Hawaii to Panama. Final Plot.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 3023. Dutch harbor to Honolulu.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Panama to Hawaii.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Midway to Manila. Preliminary run.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Midway to Manila.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Hawaii to Midway.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Midway to Manila. Partial duplicate.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Hawaii to Midway.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Manila to Manila.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 1965, number 3028.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 1965.
a. Negative print. b. Profile A – A’ to L – L’. From 0˚ to 20˚ North and 80˚ to 100˚ West. Covers the Middle America Trench, by John Peacock.
a. Positive print. b. From 14˚ to 26˚ South and 77˚ to 91˚ West. Profiles 5 through 8 from the Horizon and Baird.
a. Positive print. b. 15 profiles from the Horizon, Baird, and Vema.
a. Positive print. b. From 3˚ North and 80˚ to 87˚ West. Seven profiles from Vema.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ South. Profile 103 to 108.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. Figures 1 and 2.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. Figure 6.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. Figure 7 and 8.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. Profiles 129 to 134.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. Profiles 46 to 52.
a. Positive print, mounted on cardboard. b. No other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Profiles 1 through 10.
a. Graph paper. b. From 25 to 29 North and 159 to 160 East.
a. Linen. b. I-V by Menard, Dietz, and Shumway.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ South to 50˚ North and 120˚ to 165˚ East. Color-coded tracks and profiles.
a. Paper. b. From 38˚ to 44˚ North and 140˚ to 149˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 5˚ to 60˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ North. December 1965.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 59˚ to 64˚ West. Profile A – A’
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ South and 148˚ to 177˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 3˚ South˚ to 7˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 46˚ to 70˚ South and 174˚ and to 178˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 19˚ South to 7˚ North and 80˚ and to 110˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 38˚ South and 111˚ to 136˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ North to 7˚ South and 80˚ to 87˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 40˚ to 85˚ South and 60˚ to 78˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 2˚ to 10˚ North and 78˚ to 87˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 4˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 88˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 3˚ North to 27˚ South and 70˚ to 87˚ West. Profiles 10 through 39.
a. Negative print. b. From 23˚ to 25˚ South and 71˚ to 72˚ West. Profiles 38 to 44.
a. Negative print. b. From 2˚ to 7˚ North and 79˚ to 85˚ West. Profiles 1 through 9.
a. Negative print. b. From 25˚ to 33˚ South and 71˚ to 73˚ West. Profiles 45 through 59.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 22˚ South and 70˚ to 82˚ West. Profiles 25 through 37.
a. Negative print. b. From 25˚ to 41˚ South and 71˚ to 77˚ West. Profiles 60 through 66.
a. Negative print. b. Copies of original PDR records. 831A to 835A.
a. Negative print. b. Copies of original PDR records. 836A to 840A.
a. Negative print. b. Copies of original PDR records. 875A to 879A.
a. Negative print. b. 635 to 634.
a. Positive print. b. Copies of original PDR records. 506A to 510A, 19-20 May 1965.
a. Negative print. b. 508a to 520a.
a. Negative print. b. 25 – 27 August 1965.
a. Negative print. b. 18 – 21 May 1966.
a. Negative print. b. 17 – 18 March 1965.
a. Negative print. b. 15– 16 May 1966.
a. Negative transparency. b. 4- 6 January 1967.
a. Negative print. b. Profiles 46 – 69, copies of original PDR records.
a. Paper. b. Profiles 1756 to 1761.
a. Tracing paper. b. Profiles A – A’ to J – J’.
a. Tracing paper. b. No other information.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 51˚ to 62˚ South and 161˚ to 166˚ East. Profiles 1 and 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ to 63˚ South and 171˚ to 172˚ East. Profiles 2 through 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 173˚ to 180˚ East. Profiles 10 through 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 47˚ to 63˚ South and 173˚ to 175˚ East. Profiles 17 through 22.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 47˚ to 61˚ South and 173˚ to 176˚ East. Profile 23.
a. Linen. b. Profile of the Gulf of Guayaquil.
a. Negative print. b. From 10˚ to 45˚ South and 165˚ East to 165˚ West. General map of the area.
a. Negative print. b. From 19˚ 48’ to 21˚ South and 171˚ to 174˚ 28’ West. Profile C – C’.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ 17’ to 17˚ South and 170˚ 40’ to 172˚ 46’ West. Profile D – D’.
a. Negative print. b. From 25˚ 22’ to 26˚ 20’ South and 174˚ 42’ to 175˚ 26’ West. Profile F – F’.
a. Negative print. b. From 33˚ to 34˚ 21’ South and 178˚ to 179˚ 27’ West. Profile A – A’.
a. Negative print. b. From 31˚ 08’ to 32˚ 04’ South and 176˚ to 179˚ West. Profile B – B’.
a. Negative print. b. From 26˚ 20’ to 26˚ 45’ South and 174˚ 42’ to 176˚ 11’ West. Profile E – E’.
a. Negative print. b. Composite tracks for several areas of the Pacific.
a. Positive print. b. Profiles A through K.
a. Negative print. b. Profiles A through K.
a. Negative print. b. Profiles 1 through 10.
a. Positive print. b. Profiles 1 through 10.
a. Negative print. b. 8 profiles.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 78˚ West. Profiles from Horizon, Baird, and Vema 1 through 9.
a. Positive print. b. From 15˚ to 28˚ South and 75˚ to 90˚ West. Vema profiles 1 through 4.
a. Paper. b. From 22˚ to 38˚ North and 123˚ to 157˚ West. Route A.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 39˚ North and 125˚ to 155˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 22˚ to 36˚ North and 123˚ to 157˚ West. Route B.
a. Paper. b. From 22˚ to 37˚ North and 122˚ to 157˚ West. Route A.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 39˚ North and 125˚ to 155˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Color-coded profiles 1 through 25. Signed by Marie Tharp.
a. Linen. b. From 22˚ to 37˚ North and 124˚ to 157˚ West. Topographic profile along cable route A.
a. Negative print. b. 1 to 18 February 1965.
a. Graph paper. b. From 40˚ to 45˚ South and 75˚ West.
a. Graph paper. b. From 47˚ to 44˚ South and 75˚ to 82˚ West.
a. Graph paper. b. From 37˚ to 39˚ South and 151˚ West. Covers area 1607 West.
a. Graph paper. b. From 141˚ to 159˚ West. Covers area 1507 and 1508 North.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 60˚ to 63˚ South and 170˚ to 171˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Covers Bouvet Island,Walvis Ridge, Natal Basin, and Indian Ridge.
a. Frosted acetate. b. By M. Bond, May 1973.
a. Frosted acetate. b. By M. Bond, May 1973.
a. Ozalid paper. b. By M. Bond, May 1973.
a. Frosted acetate. b. By M. Bond, May 1973.
a. Ozalid paper. b. By M. Bond, May 1973.
a. Ozalid paper. b. By M. Bond.
a. Ozalid paper. b. By M. Bond.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 21˚ to 34˚ South and 41˚ to 47˚ West. Profiles 1 through 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 51˚ South and 12˚ to 51˚ West. Profiles 5 through 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 57˚ South and 24˚ to 56˚ West. Profiles 9 through 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ to 68˚ South and 11˚ to 21˚ West. Profiles 11 through 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 17˚ to 76˚ South and 15˚ to 28˚ West. Profiles 14 through 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ to 14˚ North and 13˚ to 56˚ West. Profiles 1 through 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ North to 57˚ South and 3˚ to 57˚ West. Profiles 4 through 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 9˚ to 40˚ South and 0˚ to 46˚ West. Profiles 9 through 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ to 35˚ South and 5˚ to 49˚ East. Profiles 13 through 17.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ to 32˚ North and 28˚ to 54˚ West. Profiles 1 through 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 22˚ to 58˚ North and 17˚ to 59˚ West. Profiles 5 through 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 14˚ to 57˚ North and 17˚ to 43˚ West. Profiles 8 through 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. 15-16 December 1968.
a. Paper. b. 00199, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S. “1st attempt to computerize soundings, published in our 8x11 book w/ positives and scale depths given. In order to use these profiles, these sheets had to be glued together to make a continuous profile of the area across which the ship went. The profiles also had to have spot depths with peaks and valleys read off in uncorrected fathoms. These depths were then plotted on a map along the track, then they could be compared with other ship’s profiles which had also been plotted at a vertical exaggeration of 100:1. Many published volumes of this project went on to Colorado.”
a. Paper. b. 02681, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 09756, 21 July 1967. Covers 1708S.
a. Paper. b. 10959, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 12963, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 13056, 18 July 1967. Covers 1708S.
a. Paper. b. 13058, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 13862, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 14459, 18 July 1967. Covers 1708S.
a. Paper. b. 15162, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 16556, 18 July 1967. Covers 1708S.
a. Paper. b. 16756, 21 July 1967. Covers 1708S.
a. Paper. b. 18362, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 18462, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 22861, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 25464, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 27364, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 27464, 18 July 1967. Covers 1805 AND 1905 N.
a. Paper. b. 27961, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 28764, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 30464, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 30564, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 310121, 21 July 1967. Covers 1709S.
a. Paper. b. 31664, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 33761, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 34762, Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 34961, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 36464, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 39963, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 45662, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 49164, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 49263, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 50161, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 52562, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 52863, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 55763, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 56162, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 59862, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 60162, 18 July 1967. Covers 1706S.
a. Paper. b. 61263, 21 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Paper. b. 64683, 18 July 1967. Covers 1905N.
a. Negative Transparency. b. Profiles 1 through 23.
a. Negative print. b. 920B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Positive print. b. 920B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 920B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 922B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 921B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Positive print. b. 922B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Positive print. b. 922B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 923B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 925B from Vema 32-09, 14 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 926B from Vema 32-09, 15 May 1975.
a. Positive print. b. 926B from Vema 32-09, 15 May 1975.
a. Negative print. b. 927B from Vema 32-09, 15 May 1975.
a. Positive print. b. 927B from Vema 32-09, 15 May 1975.
a. Tracing paper. b. From the Baird.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ to 59˚ South and 22˚ to 117˚ West. 3 Profiles from Vema 16.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ to 59˚ South and 29˚ to 58˚ West. 3 Profiles from Vema 10 and 16.
a. Negative print. b. Profile from the gulf of Thailand the South China Sea. 1959 – 1961. Figure 2.
a. Negative print. b. Profile from the gulf of Thailand the South China Sea. 1959 – 1961.
a. Negative print. b. Profile from the gulf of Thailand the South China Sea. 1959 – 1961. Figure 3.
a. Negative print. b. Profile from the gulf of Thailand the South China Sea. 1959 – 1961.
a. Negative print. b. 4 August 1960.
a. Negative print. b. Deitz, and Shumway.
a. Positive print. b. Profiles A – B and C – D.
a. Negative print. b. 4 August 1960.
a. Negative print. b. No other information.
a. Negative print. b. No other information.
a. Negative print. b. No other information.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 10˚ North and 75˚ to 85˚ West. Profiles 1 through 8.
a. Negative print. b. From 27 February to 13 March.
a. Graph paper. b. From 26˚ North and 45˚ 55’ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. 5 profiles with coordinates.
13 Items
a. Frosted acetate b. Cores 194-200, 202
a. Ozalid. b. Cores 194-200, 202
a. Linen b. From 0˚ to 65˚ South and 90˚ East to 60˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 100˚ to 170˚ East. Shows locations for Vema, Conrad, Monsoon, Argo, Horizon, Eltanin and Russian cores. Figure 1.
a. Tracing paper. b. Pencil diagram including cross section and graph.
a. Positive print. b. Cores range from site 44 to 60.
a. Positive print. b. Cores range from site 44 to 60.
a. Negative print. b. Vema and Robert Conrad cores 8 through 144. Core locations south of Australia, includes a profiles across core locations.
a. Positive print. b. Vema and Robert Conrad cores 8 through 144. Core locations south of Australia, includes a profiles across core locations.
a. Paper. b. Cores 44 through 60.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 80˚ to 120˚ West. Also shows opaque layer thicknesses.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 95˚ to 165˚ West. Cores from Vema cruises 18, 20, 21, 24, 28, and Robert Conrad cruises 10-15, and 17. Sheet #6.
63 items
a. Frosted acetate b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. By H. W. Menard. Scripps Oceanographic Institute
a. Film positive b. From 30˚ to 45˚ South and 155˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 15˚ North to 45˚ South and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Includes location map and core profiles.
a. Negative print. b. From 15˚ North to 45˚ South and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Shows location map only.
a. Frosted acetate
a. Tracing paper b. From 20˚ North to 50˚ South and 90˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Paper print b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 60˚ East to 60˚ West. Color proof.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 70˚ South and 0˚ to 180˚ West. Published by Journal for Geophysical Research, Vol. 74, No. 10, ppgs. 2477 - 2493, 1969.
a. Frosted acetate b. Prepared for the Geological Atlas of the World. Shows deep-sea drilling project.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 5˚ to 20˚ North and 100˚ to 160˚ West. By J. Z. Frazer and D. L. Hawkins. Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California at San Diego.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 5˚ to 20˚ North and 100˚ to 160˚ West. By J. Z. Frazer and M. B. Fisk. Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California at San Diego.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 40˚ South and 150˚ to 175˚ East. Plate #1. Shows location of gravity profiles, pendulum stations and bathymetric contours in meters. Drawn by M. Amar and D. Jongsma.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 40˚ South and 150˚ to 175˚ East. Plate #2. Shows location of magnetic profiles and bathymetric contours in meters. Drawn by M. Amar and D. Jongsma.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 40˚ South and 150˚ to 175˚ East. Plate #3. Shows location of seismic profiles and bathymetric contours in meters. Drawn by M. Amar and D. Jongsma.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 80˚ West to 120˚ East. Geophysical monograph #12 - The Crust and Upper Mantle of the Pacific Area, edited by L. Knopoff, C. L. Drake and P. J. Hart. Published by the American Geophysical Union, Washington, DC, 1968.
a. Film positive b. Published in the Geological Atlas of the World.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ North to 65˚ South and 160˚ West to 90˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ North to 65˚ South and 60˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ North to 65˚ South and 165˚ West to 90˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ North to 65˚ South and 60˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Film positive b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 80˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 90˚ West to 170˚ East. Shows Heezen and Tharp fracture zones.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ North to 60˚ South and 80˚ West. Covers Carnegie and Nasca fracture zones. Mathew’s areas 23, 42 and 43.
a. Zipatone on cardboard. b. No other identification information.
a. Paper on cardboard. b. Shows contours, pillows, lava tubes, fractures and sediments.
a. Negative print. b. From 19˚ 36' to 19˚ 37' North and 154˚ 30' to 154˚ 38' West. Shows contours, pillows, lava tubes, fractures and sediments. Print of 0026 graphic.
a. Paper. b. From 23 to 49˚ North and 116˚ to 160˚ West. Contours in two-way travel time prepared by Allen Lowrie Code 6120, NAVOCEANO.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 26˚ North and 153˚ to 159˚ West. Oblique pencil sketch not done by Marie Tharp and she does not recall who did it. Possibly one of the graduate students.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 26˚ North and 153˚ to 159˚ West. Oblique pencil sketch not done by Marie Tharp and she does not recall who did it. Possibly one of the graduate students. Fits on top of 0028A.
a. Cronoflex b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ East to 110˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ East to 110˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 7˚ South to 13˚ North and 78˚to 106˚ West. Figure 8, Seafloor isochrones for the eastern equatorial Pacific as visualized by Holden and Dietz, 1972.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 42˚ 10’ to 43˚ South and 174˚to 173˚ East. Pen and ink drawing.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 1˚ South to 4˚ North and 160˚ East. Covers the Java Plateau and the Nauru Basin. May, June, August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Color-coded.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 7˚ South to 25˚ North and 95˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North and 115˚ to 180˚ West. Figure 1, based on US Coast and Geodetic Survey.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North and 115˚ to 180˚ West. Figure 1, based on US Coast and Geodetic Survey.
a. Positive transparency. b. By J.Z. Frazer and Fisk.
a. Positive transparency. b. By J.Z. Frazer and D.L Hawkins.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 110˚ East. Preliminary color-sketch map. Figure 2.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 110˚ East. By Hayes and Pitman, plate 2, Geological Society of America Memoir 126. Autographed by Pitman.
a. Positive print. b. From 20˚ to 50˚ North and 100˚ to 150˚ West. Final Publication graphic.
a. Positive print. b. Final Publication graphic.
a. Positive print. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 50˚ to 170˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Positive print. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 50˚ to 170˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Positive print. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 60˚ to 160˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Positive print. b. From 60˚ North to 50˚ South and 50˚ to 160˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 80˚ West to 160˚ East. Covers the Heezen and Tharp Fracture Zones.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 176˚ to 180˚ East. Pencil sketch.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 176˚ to 180˚ East. Pencil and ink sketch.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 176˚ to 180˚ East. Final graphic.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 176˚ to 180˚ East. Final graphic.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 176˚ to 180˚ East. Includes corrections to 0051 in red.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 65˚ North and 120˚ to 180˚ West. Figure 1, Mammerickx, 1970.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Covers the Standard Navy Ocean Area, Region – 9. Plate 1.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Covers the Standard Navy Ocean Area, Region – 9. Proprietary Map. Plate 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Covers the Standard Navy Ocean Area, Region – 9. Proprietary Map. Plate 9.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 3˚ to 23˚ North and 75˚ to 160˚ West. Shows geologic ages and magnetic anomalies.
a. Paper, incased in Mylar. b. From 41˚ to 48˚ North and 140˚ to 156˚ West. Russian Oceanographic Institute, 1960.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 1˚ South to 2˚ North and 160˚ to 163˚ East. Final graphic from the Hawaii Institute of Physics, 1971.
a. Negative print. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 10˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 32˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Pencil sketch.
31 items
a. Film negative b. From 45˚ to 68˚ South and 158˚ to 168˚ East. Envelope of major earthquakes off of Auckland Islands.
a. Frosted acetate
a. Film negative b. From 60˚ to 67˚ South and 155˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Acetate b. Seismicity and direction of plate movement.
a. Ozalid. b. Geologic map worksheet
a. Ozalid. b. Basic geologic map with sediment overprint.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 58˚ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 25˚ to 70˚ North and 150˚ East to 70˚ West. World map scale.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 30˚ North and 82˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Linen b. From 15˚ to 30˚ North and 82˚ to 120˚ West. Shows shallow and intermediate earthquake locations.
a. Positive print. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 65˚ to 155˚ West. Shows below water and on-land earthquake locations along the coasts of North and South America.
a. Negative print. b. From 5˚ to 30˚ North and 80˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. From 5˚ to 30˚ North and 80˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 55˚ South and 60˚ to 120˚ West. Epicenters using computers, April 1965. Other from August 1955 – 60.
a. Linen. b. From 65˚ North to 50˚ South and 100˚ to 160˚ East. Final Publication graphic.
a. Tracing paper overlay on paper. b. From 0˚ to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 180˚ East. Data plotted on JEBCO AIII, 1940.
a. Tracing paper overlay on paper. b. From 0˚ to 46˚ South and 90˚ to 180˚ East. Data plotted on JEBCO A’III, 1940.
a. paper. b. From 15˚ to 60˚ North and 125˚ to 165˚ East. Dept. of Commerce, July 1970.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 8˚ 57’ to 9˚ 42’ North and 158˚ 10’ to 159˚ 2’ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 65˚ North to 65˚ South and 70˚ 105˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Negative print enlargement. b. From 65˚ North to 65˚ South and 70˚ 105˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Graph paper. b. Area: Young Rocks. Seismic Profiler line 1, 27 April 1970.
a. Graph paper. b. Area: Young Rocks. Seismic Profiler line 2, 20 April 1970.
a. Graph paper. b. Area: Young Rocks. Seismic Profiler line 3, 17 April 1970.
a. Graph paper. b. Area: Young Rocks. Seismic Profiler line 4, 17 April 1970.
a. Graph paper. b. Area: Young Rocks. Seismic Profiler line 5, 21 April 1970.
a. Linen. b. from 60˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 20˚ to 78˚ North and 150˚ West to 150˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 57˚ to 65˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East.
41 items
a. Film negative b. From 5˚ South to 15˚ North and 165˚ West to 160˚ East
a. negative transparency. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Plate No. 8. Standard Navy Ocean Area Region-9.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Plate No. 8. Standard Navy Ocean Area Region-9.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Figure 2, topo data had been plotted perpendicular to the ships tracks.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Figure 2, topo data had been plotted perpendicular to the ships tracks.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Figure 2, topo data had been plotted perpendicular to the ships tracks.
a. Film negative b. Shows tracks and profiles
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Data by Herron.
a. Positive transparency. b. Shows tracks and profiles. Figure 2, topo data had been plotted perpendicular to the ships tracks. Does not include number annotations.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Figure 3. Residual magnetic anomalies have been plotted along the ship’s track.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 100˚ to 165˚ East. Figure 2. Magnetic lineation and offsets in the SE Indian Ocean, By Weissel and Hayes.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 100˚ to 165˚ East. Figure 2. Magnetic lineation and offsets in the SE Indian Ocean, By Weissel and Hayes.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 100˚ to 165˚ East. Figure 2. Magnetic lineation and offsets in the SE Indian Ocean, By Weissel and Hayes.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 20˚ West.
a. Paper. b. 4 Illustrations from 30˚ to 55˚ North and 110˚ to 175˚ West. Figures A,B, C, and D.
a. Paper. b. 20˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Paper. b. 3 graphs covering Midway and Wake Islands.
a. Positive print. b. From 8˚ to 52˚ North and 160˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 70˚ North and 70˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 70˚ North and 70˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Negative transparency.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 145˚ West to 155˚ East. Historic document of W. Pittman’s map, showing magnetic ages in the Pacific. Includes a track chart inset.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 120˚ West. Figure 1.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 120˚ West. Figure 1.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 120˚ West. From Herron and Tuckahoe.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ South to 50˚ North and 65˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 5˚ South to 10˚ North and 155˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 22˚ North and 157˚ West to 173˚ East. Data from the Glomar Challenger.
a. Ozalid. b. From 3˚ to 15˚ North and 157˚ West to 173˚ East. Data from the Glomar Challenger.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 25˚ North and 157˚ West to 173˚ East. Data from the Glomar Challenger.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Proprietary map for Navy Ocean Area Region – 9 (off the west coast of the United States). Plate 8A.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 15˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 20˚ North and 115˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 20˚ North and 145˚ to 180˚ East. 5195, 17 December 1970. By J.L. Matthews.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ to 30˚ North and 135˚ to 180˚ East. 5195, 17 December 1970. By J.L. Matthews.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 20˚ North and 145˚ to 180˚ East. 5982, 5 December 1970. By J.L. Matthews.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ to 45˚ North and 125˚ to 160˚ East. 5195, 17 December 1970. By J.L. Matthews.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. 26 July 1966.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 42˚ South and 80˚ to 172˚ West. 26 July 1966.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. 26 July 1966.
22 items
a. Linen b. Record number 17. From 18˚ to 22˚ North and 120˚ to 157˚ West.
a. Linen b. From 0˚ to 65˚ North and 66˚ West to 90˚ East.
a. Linen b. From 55˚ South to 65˚ North and 140˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Linen b. From 55˚ South to 65˚ North and 150˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Linen b. From 55˚ South to 65˚ North and 90˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Linen b. From 6˚ to 14 ˚North and 72˚ to 103˚ West. Note: "Same scale as bathymetric map."
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 50˚ South and 160˚ West to 160˚ East. Notes: "Gravity stations from Australia to Tonga and Tubak. Data is from the U.S.S. Capitaine, H.M.S. Telemachus and the U.S.S. Bergall."
a. Paper. b. Vema 20 leg from Tokyo to Darwin. Statistical data showing navigation points, courses, and gravity records, 11 June 1965.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ East. Color-coded tracks.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ East. Tracks.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North. Color- coded profiles shown along tracks.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ South to 40˚ North and 100˚ East to 100˚ West. Color-coded sediment thickness contours and opaque layer (Horizon A).
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 70˚ North and 115˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 1.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 70˚ North and 140˚ East to 120˚ West. Sheet 2.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 70˚ North and 40˚ to 120˚ West. Sheet 3.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 80˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 4.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ South to 23˚ North and 160˚ East to 120˚ West. Sheet 5.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ South to 23˚ North and 40˚ to 118˚ West. Sheet 6.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 72˚ South and 50˚ to 140˚ East. Sheet 7.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 72˚ South and 100˚ West to 159˚ East. Sheet 8.
a. Paper. b. From 34˚ to 64˚ South and 30˚ to 120˚ West. Sheet 9.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil sketch. Rolled item.
19 items
a. Paper. b. Chart to accompany "Tables for the Velocity of Sound in Pure Water and Sea Water", Second Edition, 1939. Prepared by the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty, 28 July 1939, under the Superintendence of Vice-Admiral J. A. Edgeli, CB, OBE, Hydrographer.
a. Paper. b. Chart to accompany "Tables for the Velocity of Sound in Pure Water and Sea Water", Second Edition, 1939. Prepared by the Hydrographic Department of the Admiralty, 28 July 1939, under the Superintendence of Vice-Admiral J. A. Edgeli, CB, OBE, Hydrographer. Includes US Navy numbers for the southern Pacific Ocean.
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. Shows sea water temperature by month.
a. Paper. b. Shows sea water temperature by month.
a. Tracing paper b. From 20˚ to 70˚ South and 20˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. Along the 170˚ meridian. Includes data from Discovery, Dana, Carnegie, and Bushnell.
a. Paper. b. H.O. publication no.237, US Navy H.O Office, 1945. 14 pages.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ South to 30˚ North and 112˚ to 134˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 12˚ South to 30˚ North and 112˚ to 134˚ East. Vol.II
a. Paper. b. 10-12 July 1962. Sheet 13a.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Matthew’s zone 24, 44, 45. Scale is 1:10, 000, 000.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Matthew’s zone 41 and 42.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Matthew’s zone 23-29 and 42-43.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Matthew’s zone 22-29, 32- 33, 41-43.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ North and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Matthew’s zone 24-25 and 42-45
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 30˚ North and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Matthew’s zone 33, 39, 40- 42, and 46.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 80˚ South and 160˚ East to 60˚ West. 2nd Edition, 1939.
a. Negative print. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ South and 177˚ to 179˚ East. Shows earthquake epicenter and broken cable locations.
11 items
a. Paper. b. Second edition, 1939.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ North to 45˚ South and 90˚ to 180˚ East. July/September 1961.
a. Linen. b. From 20˚ North to 40˚ South and 30˚ to 100˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 105˚ to 155˚ East. Includes tracks as well as index blocks.
a. Paper. b. April 1981.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 60˚ North and 105˚ to 180˚ East. Index with a grid.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 100˚ to 180˚ West. Index with a grid.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 70˚ South and 20˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. Shows plot of 9 profiles.
402 tiems
0001 Gebco Tracks 0002 Gebco Soundings 0003 Soundings 0004 Soundings
0001 Contours 0002 Soundings 0003 Soundings 0004 Tracks 0005 Computer Soundings 0006 Tracks 0007 Soundings 0008 Soundings 0009 Soundings 0010 Soundings 0011 Soundings 0012 Soundings
0001 Color-coded tracks with Soundings 0002 Color-coded tracks with select soundings 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings
0001 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks and select soundings with classification notation. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 00008 Computer Soundings
0001 Color-coded tracks with historic soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Computer Soundings
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Computer Soundings 0005 Color-coded tracks and province data.
0001 Contours
0001 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0006 Tracks and Soundings. 0007 Color-coded Tracks and Soundings. 0008 Computer Soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks. 0007 Province map sketch.
0001 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks and Soundings. 0003 Color-coded Soundings. 0004 Color-coded Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks and Soundings –
0001 Tracks, soundings, and contours. 0002 Color-coded tracks and contours. 0003 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings and earthquake locations. 0006 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0008 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0009 Vema –15, color-coded tracks with soundings. 0010 Vema –15, color-coded tracks with soundings. 0011 Vema –15, color-coded tracks with soundings. 0012 Select soundings collection sheet. 0013 Select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded track with soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0008 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0008 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0009 Color-coded tracks with soundings, contours, and province data. 0010 Tracks with select soundings and contours.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Vema – 17, Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0005 Vema-17, soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Vema-17, soundings and contours. 0009 Soundings and province map data. 0010 Vema-17, color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0011 Vema-17, profile.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0005 Preliminary province map. 0006 Color-coded track, soundings, and province map data. 0007 Profile, color-coded.
0001 Soundings and province map data. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province map data. 0003 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0004 Vema-17, soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Tracks. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Vema-17, colored profile.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Tracks with soundings. 0009 Computer soundings. 0010 Tracks and contours. 0011 Tracks. 0012 Soundings.
0001 Tracks and Scripps contours. 0002 Computer soundings. 0003 Tracks with soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0008 Contours and sea mount heights. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Composite Soundings. 0011 Contours with security notice. 0012 Final sounding compilation sheet, transparency.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Tracks with Soundings. 0003 Tracks with Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Tracks with Soundings. 0009 Color-coded tracks with Soundings. 0010 Color-coded tracks with Soundings. 0011 Color-coded tracks with Soundings. 0012 Computer plotted spot depths. 0013 Computer soundings.
0001 Final soundings transparency for minerals assessment bathymetric chart.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Computer soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Computer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Spot depths. 0005 Computer soundings. 0006 Spot depths.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Tracks with soundings. 0002 Computer tracks. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Tracks. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Worksheet. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0006 Soundings with province data.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings and province data.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Historic soundings. 0003 Historic soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Tracks with select soundings. 0006 Computer soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Province data. 0011 Computer plotted earthquakes.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Tracks with select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0008 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0009 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0010 Soundings. 0011 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Bathymetric assessment chart – Dill project. 0014 Seamount chart. 0015 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0016 Soundings from Long Lines Cruise 8. 0017 Computer soundings.
0001 Vema 32 soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Computer soundings. 0006 Computer soundings.
0001 Historic soundings with classification notation. 0002 Historic tracks and soundings with classification notation. 0003 Vema 32 – tracks and soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0008 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0009 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0010 Robert Conrad tracks with contours. 0011 Scripps contours. 0012 Contours. 0013 Computer plotted earthquakes.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Computer soundings.
0001 Spot depths. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings. 0005 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Spot depths. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Nazca Plate grid.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Color-coded track with select soundings.
0001 Color-coded track with select soundings.
0001 Computer plotted soundings. 0002 Color-coded track with select soundings. 0003 Color-coded track with soundings and province data.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Computer plotted soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings with corrections. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Color-coded soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings. 0011 Soundings. 0012 Computer plotted earthquakes. 0013 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Computer-plotted soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Computer-plotted soundings. 0006 Soundings. 00067 Select soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Master soundings sheet. 0011 Color-coded master soundings sheet. 0012 Soundings and color-coded soundings. 0013 Soundings. 0014 Soundings. 0015 Select soundings. 0016 Select soundings. 0017 Select soundings. 0018 Sea mounts. 0019 Tracks and Scripps contours. 0020 Earthquakes. 0021 Soundings compilation sheet with Scripps picks for the mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0022 Final soundings compilation sheet, for the mineral assessment bathymetric chart.
0001 Computer-plotted soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Vema soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Color-coded master soundings. 0011 Master soundings sheet. 0012 Color-coded master soundings sheet. 0013 Select soundings. 0014 Seamounts and contours. 0015 Contours. 0016 Seamounts. 0017 Scripps contours. 0018 Soundings compilations sheet for the Dill Project. 0019 Soundings compilations sheet for the Dill Project. 0020 Scripps profiler record picks. 0021 Dill project soundings compilation sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Seamounts.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings and corrections. 0004 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0005 Master soundings collection sheet. 0006 Color-coded master soundings collection sheet. 0007 Master soundings collection sheet. 0008 Master soundings collection sheet. 0009 Corrections for master soundings collection sheet. 0010 Tracks and select soundings. 0011 Tracks and select soundings. 0012 Computer plotted soundings. 0013 Select soundings. 0014 Select soundings. 0015 Sea mounts. 0016 Contours. 0017 Scripps contours. 0018 Contours.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings. 0005 Sea mounts.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings and corrections. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Grid sheet. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Grid sheet. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Tracks with select soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings with corrections.
0001 Track locations and soundings. Note: “Tell this track making SOB to please be more careful in spotting his soundings.”-Foster. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Soundings with corrections. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Collection sheet with corrections. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Tracks with select soundings. 0012 Soundings collection sheet with corrections. 0013 Soundings collection sheet for the Dill project. 0014 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0015 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart with highlighted soundings. 0016 Computer plotted soundings. 0017 Contours. 0018 Province map. 0019 Color-coded contours. 0020 Scripps contours. 0021 Soundings compilation sheet negative transparency.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings with corrections. 0005 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0006 Tracks with select soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Computer plotted soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Computer plotted soundings with corrections. 0011 Province map. 0011 Color-coded contours. 0013 Contours. 0014 Scripps contours. 0015 Soundings compilation sheet with averages. 0016 Soundings compilation sheet. 0017 Soundings compilation sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Contours. 0002 Color-coded contours. 0003 Color-coded contours. 0004 Soundings plotting sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Soundings collection sheet with corrections. 0009 Soundings collection sheet with Matthew’s zones. 0010 Dill project collection sheet. 0011 Soundings correction sheet. 0012 Select soundings. 0013 Soundings master sheet. 0014 Track and soundings sheet. 0015 Contour map. 0016 SIO Contour map. 0017 Scripps contours. 0018 Scripps contours. 0019 Contours and sea mounts. 0020 Contours. 0021 Negative print – Scripps contours. 0022 Contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings. 0007 Soundings and province map.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Track and soundings transparency. 0004 Negative print – Scripps contours. 0005 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings with corrections. 0003 Soundings worksheet. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings. 0007 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Contours. 0005 Negative print – Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded select contours.
0001 Grid sheet. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Grid sheet. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings and province data. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings with corrections. 0005 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Tracks with soundings and geographic locations. Note: “place your god damn sdgs [soundings] more carefully” – Foster. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Master soundings collection sheet with corrections. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Color-coded soundings. 0009 Soundings with Matthew’s zones. 0010 Soundings for mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0011 Soundings with corrections. 0012 Soundings for bathymetric chart. 0013 Half degree depth averages. 0014 Computer-plotted soundings. 0015 Computer-plotted soundings. 0016 Contours. 0017 Soundings and contours. 0018 Earthquakes, magnetics, and fracture zones for the Dill project. 0019 Tracks with select soundings. 0020 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Cable data. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings and select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Final soundings transparency. 0009 Final soundings transparency. 0010 Soundings transparency. 0011 Soundings. 0012 Soundings and select soundings. 0013 Soundings and select soundings. 0014 Soundings and select soundings. 0015 Select soundings. 0016 Computer plotted soundings. 0017 Computer plotted soundings. 0018 Computer plotted soundings. 0019 Computer plotted soundings. 0020 Geologic Map for the Dill project. 0021 Half-degree depth averages for mineral assessment map. 0022 Half-degree depth averages for mineral assessment map. 0023 Soundings and contours. 0024 Soundings and contours. 0025 Color-coded soundings and province data. 0026 Contours. 0027 Tracks and contours. 0028 G.S. Pioneer Soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings and seamount contours. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Collection sheet. 0006 Soundings sheet with corrections. 0007 Soundings sheet with status information. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings with corrections. 0011 Computer plotted soundings. 0012 Computer plotted soundings. 0013 Computer plotted soundings. 0014 Soundings, computer plotted soundings, and bottom contours for mineral assessment chart. 0015A Pencil overlay for contours. 0015B Tracing paper overlay. 0015C Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Heezen geology. 0017 Half-degree depth average for mineral assessment chart. 0018 Color-coded soundings and province map data. 0019 Contour pencil sketch. 0020 Contours. 0021 Color-coded contours with select soundings. 0022 SIO contour map without tracks. 0023 SIO contour map with tracks.
0001 Color-coded contours. 0002 Select contours. 0003 Color-coded select contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select contours. 0003 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0004 AT&T cable route from California to Hawaii. 0005A Contour overlay. 0005B Color-coded soundings. 0006 Contour map.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings with corrections. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Collection sheet transparency. 0006 Select soundings transparency. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet and color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings. 0012 Soundings. 0013 Master soundings collection sheet. 0014 Contours. 0015 Contours. 0016 AT&T cable route California to Hawaii.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Tracks with classification notations. 0002 Select soundings transparency. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings transparency. 0005 Soundings transparency. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 G.S. Pioneer Soundings. 0010 G.S. Pioneer Soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings with classification notations. 0005 Soundings with classification notations. 0006 Soundings with classification notations. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0007 Color-coded soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Color-coded soundings with corrections. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings for mineral assessment bathymetric chart. 0010 Tracks with select soundings and province data. 0011 Mineral assessment and contours. 0012 Contour transparency. 0013 Contours. 0014 Contours. 0015A Contour overlay. 0015B Master contour sheet. 0016 Average depth sheet. 0017 Heezen geology overlay. 0018 Province map. 0019 Scripps contours with track.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings. 0007 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0005 Color-coded province data. 0006 Soundings with selected conversions. 0007 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0008 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings and contours. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Computer plotted soundings transparency. 0011 Computer plotted soundings. 0012 Contour transparency. 0013 Color-coded contours. 0014 Soundings and contours. 0015 Average depths. 0016 Average depths. 0017 Tracks, selected soundings, and province data. 0018 Scripps contours.
0001 Contours. 0002 Color-coded contours. 0003 Color-coded contours. 0004 Color-coded select contours. 0005 Color-coded computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded contours. 0002 Color-coded contours. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0005 Soundings transparency. 0006 Color-coded soundings. 0007 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0008 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0009 Soundings and average depths. 0010 Soundings and average depths. 0011 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings and province data. 0012 Soundings. 0013 Computer plotted soundings. 0014 Soundings and contours. 0015 Color-coded contours. 0016 Contour transparency. 0017 Province map transparency. 0018 Heezen geology map. 0019 Cable data. 0020 Scripps tracks and contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings 0005 Soundings transparency. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Computer-plotted soundings collection sheet transparency. 0009 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0010 Cable data. 0011 Cable data.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Soundings with conversions. 0004 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Pioneer soundings. 0002 Pioneer soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Contour sheet with classification notations. 0013 Cable data. 0014 Cable data. 0015 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings transparency. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet with classification notations. 0007 Tracks and contours with classification notations.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002A Profile. 0002B Profile. 0002C Color-coded soundings. 0003A Profile 0003B Profile 0003C Profile 0003D Profile 0003E Profile 0003F Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings collection sheet. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet with classification notations.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0007 Color-coded select soundings and contours. 0008 Color-coded select soundings and contours.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings with classification notation. 0005 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Select soundings with classification notation.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Color-coded soundings and select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0007 Computer-plotted soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0009 Color-coded soundings 0010 Soundings. 0011 Soundings. 0012 Select soundings. 0013 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0014 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings and select soundings. 0015 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0016 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0017 Average depths. 0018 Soundings and average depths. 0019 Color-coded contours. 0020 Scripps contours.
0001A Profile. 0001B Color-coded, computer-plotted select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Computer-plotted soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Computer-plotted soundings. 0004 Computer-plotted soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0007 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0008 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings with contours. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet with province data. 0011 Soundings. 0012 Computer plotted soundings. 0013 Soundings and average depths. 0014 Soundings and average depths. 0015 Cable data. 0016 Color-coded soundings and province data. 0017 Color-coded contours. 0018 Scripps contours.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003A Profile. 0003B Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Select soundings transparency. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings and province data. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Select soundings with classification notation. 0010 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0011 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0012 Computer-plotted soundings. 0013 Soundings and average depths. 0014 Soundings and average depths 0015 Color-coded contours. 0016 Scripps contours.
0001A Profile. 0001B Profile. 0001C Profile. 0001D Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings with conversions. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Cable data. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0010 Pioneer soundings. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Select soundings transparency. 0013 Computer plotted soundings collection sheet transparency. 0014 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0015 Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Select soundings. 0017 Select soundings. 0018 Select soundings. 0019 Seamount transparency. 0020 Contours with classification notation.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings collection sheet. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Geology. 0011 Tracks and contours with classification notation.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings and conversions. 0003 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0002 2A to 2T profiles. Color-coded soundings and province data. 0003A Profiles. 0003B Profiles. 0003C Profiles. 0003D Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Tracks and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Select soundings.
0001 Select soundings with classification notation. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006A-E Profiles. 0006F Select soundings. 0007 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Computer plotted Scripps soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Select soundings transparency. 0012 Geology and province data and depths.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Soundings and select soundings. 0009 Soundings and average depths. 0010 Soundings and average depths. 0011 Computer plotted soundings transparency. 0012 Computer plotted soundings transparency. 0013 Computer plotted soundings transparency. 0014 Select soundings transparency. 0015 Tracks, contours, and depths transparency. 0016 Color-coded contours. 0017 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004A-F Profiles. 0004G Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Select soundings transparency. 0008 Sea mounts and depth transparency.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0012 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0013 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0014 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0015 Computer-plotted soundings transparency. 0016 Soundings with conversions and province data. 0017 Soundings with average depths. 0018 Soundings with average depths. 0019 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0020 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0021 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0022 Mineral assessment bathymetric chart soundings. 0023 Select soundings transparency. 0024 Sea mounts and depths transparency. 0025 Color-coded contours. 0026 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002A Profiles. 0002B Profiles. 0002C Soundings. 0003S Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0006A-D Profiles. 0006E Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Province data. 0010 Cable data.
0001 Soundings. 0001 Soundings. 0001 Soundings. 0001 Soundings. 0005 Track transparency. 0006 Hawaiian outline transparency. 0007 Hawaiian outline transparency with soundings. 0008 Long Lines soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0010 Select soundings transparency. 0011 Select soundings transparency. 0012 Soundings transparency. 0013 Soundings transparency. 0014 Color-coded soundings. 0015 Color-coded soundings. 0016 Color-coded soundings. 0017 Color-coded soundings. 0018 Color-coded soundings. 0019 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0020 Color-coded soundings. 0021 Color-coded select soundings. 0022 Soundings with corrections. 0023 Color-coded soundings. 0024 Color-coded soundings. 0025 Color-coded soundings. 0026 Soundings. 0027 Soundings transparency. 0028 Soundings transparency. 0029 Scripps soundings transparency. 0030 Color-coded. 0031 Minerals assessment bathymetric chart. 0032 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0033 Soundings collection sheet. 0034 Select soundings transparency. 0035 Geology transparency. 0036 Contours. 0037 Scripps contours. 0038 Cable data. 0039 Cable data.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002A-E Profiles. 0002F Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Depth worksheet. 0005 Province map.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings transparency. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Soundings and select soundings. 0011 Select soundings. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0014 Color-coded select soundings. 0015 Pioneer soundings. 0016 Pioneer soundings. 0017 Select soundings transparency. 0018 Geology transparency. 0019 Soundings and contours. 0020 Tracks and contours. 0021 Scripps and contours. 0022 Cable data. 0023 Cable data. 0024 Cable data.
0001 Contours.
0001 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0002A-D Profiles. 0002E Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004A-B Profiles. 0004C Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0005 Depths. 0006 Province map transparency.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0011 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0012 Geology transparency.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet.
0001A-I Profiles. 0001J Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Computer plotted soundings. 0008 Computer plotted soundings.
0001A-D Profiles. 0001E Color-coded select soundings. 0002A-G Profiles. 0002H Select soundings and province map data. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Computer plotted soundings. 0011 Computer plotted soundings. 0012 Computer plotted soundings. 0013 Computer plotted soundings. 0014 Computer plotted soundings. 0015 Computer plotted soundings. 0016 Computer plotted soundings. 0017 Computer plotted soundings.
0001A-B Profiles. 0001C Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Pioneer soundings. 0008 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Pioneer soundings. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0010 Pioneer soundings. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002A Profile. 0002B Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings with annotations.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Compac project soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings. 0008 Soundings and select soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Computer plotted soundings. 0011 Select depth transparency. 0012 Select depth transparency. 0013 Province map transparency.
0001A Profile. 0001B Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008A-LL Profiles. 0008MM Color-coded soundings. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Soundings and contours. 0011 Depth worksheet transparency. 0012 Select depth worksheet transparency. 0013 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004A-B Profiles. 0004C Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings. 0007 Depth transparency. 0008 Province map transparency.
0001 Packet of profiles. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Select soundings collection sheet. 0010 Color-coded elect soundings collection sheet. 0011 Computer plotted soundings. 0012 Select soundings collection sheet. 0013 Select soundings collection sheet. 0014 Select soundings. 0015 Soundings and select soundings. 0016 Soundings collection sheet. 0017 Soundings collection sheet. 0018 Depth and contour worksheet transparency. 0019 Select depth transparency. 0020 Scripps contours. 0016 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007A-C Profiles. 0007D Soundings and select soundings. 0008 Computer plotted soundings. 0009 Province map transparency.
0001 Track transparency. 0002 Soundings transparency. 0003 Soundings transparency with time “ticks” 0004 Select soundings transparency. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Select soundings transparency. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Pioneer soundings. 0013 Pioneer soundings. 0014 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0015 Soundings collection sheet transparency with classification notations. 0016 Soundings collection sheet with classification notations. 0017 Soundings collection sheet. 0018 Soundings collection sheet. 0019 Soundings collection sheet. 0020 Computer plotted soundings. 0021 Select depths transparency. 0022 Contours. 0023 Geology transparency.
0001 Soundings with conversions. 0002 Color-coded select soundings and province data. 0003 Select depths. 0004 Select depths and province worksheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings and select soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Soundings collection sheet. 0014 Select soundings collection sheet. 0015 Depth and contour worksheet. 0016 Select depth and contour transparency. 0017 Scripps contours. 0018 Cable data. 0019 Cable data.
0001 Cable data.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Depths. 0005 Province map.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings and trends. 0003 Soundings with conversions. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Magnetic anomalies and trend transparency.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002A Profiles. 0002B Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Select soundings and province data.
0001A-Q Profiles. 0001R Color-coded soundings and province data. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings with corrections. 0003 Soundings with corrections. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings.
0001A-C Profiles. 0001D Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002A-E Profiles. 0002F Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002A-F Profiles. 0002G Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings.
0001A-E Profiles. 0001F Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001A-F Profiles. 0001G Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded data.
0001 Select soundings. 0002A-F Profiles. 0002G Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Depths and province data.
0001 Soundings. 0002A-B Profiles. 0002C Soundings. 0003 Computer plotted soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005A-P Profiles. 0005Q Select soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Selected depths transparency. 0009 Depths contours and province map data. 0010 Scripps contours. 0011 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007A-S Profiles. 0007T Color-coded soundings. 0008 Select depth transparency. 0009 Depth and contour worksheet. 0010 Province map transparency. 0011 Scripps contours.
0001 Compac soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003A-C Profiles. 0003D Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Selected depths transparency. 0007 Selected depth and contour worksheet.
0001 Tracks. 0002A Profile. 0002B Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Computer plotted soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Selected depth transparency. 0011 Depth and contour worksheet. 0012 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet and province data. 0009 Glomar soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet. 0011A-D Profiles. 0011E Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Seamount survey soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Glomar Challenger Leg 6 soundings. 0005 DSDP Survey soundings, transparency. 0006 DSDP Survey soundings, transparency. 0007 Aries V, transparency. 0008 Color-coded soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0013 Pioneer soundings. 0014 Pioneer soundings. 0015 Pioneer soundings. 0016 Pioneer soundings. 0017 Soundings collection sheet. 0018 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0019 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0020 Computer-plotted soundings. 0021 Computer-plotted soundings. 0022 Selected depth transparency. 0023 Depths and province map transparency. 0024 Province map transparency.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings with tracing paper overlay. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Soundings, select soundings, and province data. 0007 Profiles. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Select soundings. 0011 Select soundings. 0012 Select soundings. 0013 Soundings and contours.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Tracks. 0005 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Color-coded select soundings. 0010 Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Color-coded select soundings. 0013 Soundings collection sheet. 0014 Soundings collection sheet. 0015 Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0017 Computer plotted soundings. 0018 Soundings collection sheet transparency. 0019A Soundings collection sheet. 0019B Contour overlay to 19A. 0020 Select soundings. 0021 Cable data. 0022 Cable data. 0023 Select depth transparency. 0024 Select depths and province data. 0025 Scripps contours.
0001 Tracks and soundings. 0002 Tracks and soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings and contours. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings and province data.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004A Profile. 0004B Select soundings. 0005A-W Profiles. 0005X Color-coded soundings. 0006A-N Profiles. 0006O Color-coded soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Computer plotted soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Magnetic anomalies. 0013 Select depths transparency. 0014 Province map transparency. 0015 Province map transparency.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Color-coded Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings collection sheet. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003A-K Profiles. 0003L Color-coded select soundings. 0004A-I Profiles. 0004J Color-coded soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004A Profile. 0004B Color-coded select soundings. 0005A-E Profile. 0005F Soundings and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Soundings and select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 VEMA soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0005 Monsoon soundings. 0006 Monsoon soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet. 0006 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Monsoon soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings. 0008 Soundings and select soundings. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Select soundings. 0011 Select depth transparency. 0012 Select depth and province data.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003A-I Profiles. 0003J Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006A-P Profiles. 0006Q Soundings and contours. 0007A-N Profiles. 0007O Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Select depth transparency. 0010 Select depth and sea mounts. 0011 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings with conversions. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Select depth transparency. 0006 Select depth and sea mount transparency. 0007 Tracks and province data. 0008 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings collection sheet. 0003 Soundings collection sheet with contours. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Soundings and select sounding with conversions. 0004 Select depths with contours. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Tracks with province data. 0007 Scripps contours. 0008 Tracks.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Tracks with soundings. 0003 Soundings with contour overlay. 0004 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet with contours. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0010 Pioneer soundings. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Pioneer soundings. 0013 Color-coded transparency. 0014 Select depths, soundings, and contours. 0015 Geology transparency. 0016 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings with conversions. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0007 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Sea mounts. 0011 Select depth transparency. 0012 Province data transparency. 0013 Tracks and Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0002 Glomar challenger soundings. 0003A Profile. 0003B Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings and geology. 0006 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Soundings collection sheet. 0014 Soundings collection sheet and sea mounts. 0015 Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Soundings collection sheet. 0017 Select depth transparency. 0018 Province data transparency. 0019 Cable data. 0020 Cable data. 0021 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet with sea mounts. 0006 Select depths transparency. 0007 Sea mounts and geology.
0001 Soundings. 0002A Profiles. 0002B Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings. 0008A Profiles. 0008B Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Serrano soundings. 0014 Select depth transparency. 0015 Select depths, seamounts, and geology.
0001 Soundings with conversions.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Select depth transparency. 0007 Seamounts and geology.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings and conversions. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0006 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0007 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Vema 16 soundings. 0004 Vema 16 soundings. 0005 Vema 16 soundings. 0006 Vema 16 soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded tracks with soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings with conversions. 0003 Vema 16 soundings. 0004 Vema 16 soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Color-coded track transparency. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Computer plotted soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings. 0008 Soundings and select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings collection sheet. 0007 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0002 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0003 Soundings collection sheet. 0004 Computer plotted soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Soundings and select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings and contours. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Computer-plotted soundings. 0007 Contours and select depths. 0008 Select depth transparency. 0009 Tracks, seamounts, and geology.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Computer-plotted soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Contours and select depths. 0009 Contours. 0010 Contours. 0011 Select depth transparency. 0012 Color-coded tracks, select depths, and geology. 0013 Province map. 0014 Province map.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Tracks and soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks, soundings, and province data. 0005 Select soundings and province data. 0006 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings.
0001 Soundings with locations. 0002 Soundings with conversions. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Select soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings, select soundings, and contours. 0010 Tracks, select soundings, and contours. 0011 Scripps, tracks, and contours. 0012 Tracks and sea mount transparency. 0013 Scripps contours.
0001 Tracks and select soundings transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings and province data.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006A Profile. 0006B Select soundings. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Select soundings. 0012 Scripps contours. 0013 Tracks, select sounding, and contours. 0014 Contours and seamount depths. 0015 Tracks and select soundings transparency. 0016 Scripps, tracks, and contours.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Tracks and select soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Soundings and select soundings. 0010 Pioneer soundings. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Select depth transparency. 0013 Province map transparency. 0014 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings collection sheet.
0001A-L Profiles. 0002 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Soundings and select soundings. 0009 Color-coded tracks and select-soundings collection sheet. 0010 Color-coded tracks and select-soundings collection sheet. 0011 Select-soundings. 0012 S-soundings collection sheet. 0013 Cable data. 0014 Select-depth transparency. 0015 Province map transparency. 0016 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet. 0004 Select-depth transparency. 0005 Province map transparency. 0006 Province map transparency.
0001 Glomar challenger soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003A Profile. 0003B Select soundings. 0004A-F Profiles. 0004G Select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006A-AA Profiles. 0006BB Color-coded soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Glomar challenger soundings. 0010 Select soundings collection sheet. 0011 Select depth transparency. 0012 Province map transparency. 0013 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select-soundings. 0004 Select depth transparency. 0005 Geology transparency.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings and select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Vema 16 select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings and locations. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Soundings and locations. 0003 Color-coded tracks.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded province map transparency.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Select soundings collection sheet. 0007 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings and select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Select soundings. 0009 Track and depth transparency. 0010 Scripps contours. 0011 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings collection sheet. 0003 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet. 0004 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Glomar challenger select soundings. 0002 Soundings and contours. 0003 Soundings and contours. 0004 Soundings. 0005A-E Profiles. 0005F Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007A-B Profiles. 0007C Soundings. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings. 0010 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0014 Computer plotted soundings. 0015 Select depth transparency. 0016 Track and geology transparency. 0017 Province map transparency. 0018 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Computer plotted soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002A Profile. 0002B Soundings. 0001 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Computer plotted soundings collection sheet. 0012 Select soundings collection sheet. 0013 Soundings collection sheet. 0014 Pioneer soundings. 0015 Pioneer soundings. 0016 Cable data. 0017 Cable data. 0018 Select depth transparency. 0019 Geology transparency. 0020 Track and seamount transparency. 0021 Province map transparency. 0022 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Computer plotted soundings collection sheet. 0004 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Aries V soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings and select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Select soundings collection sheet. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet and province data. 0012 Select soundings and sea mounts. 0013 Tracks, select soundings and sea mount transparency. 0014 Select depths transparency. 0015 Province data transparency. 0016 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0003 Color-coded soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings with track locations. 0002 Soundings with track locations. 0003A Profile. 0003B Select soundings and contours. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Aries V soundings transparency. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Glomar challenger soundings. 0009 Glomar challenger soundings. 0010 Select soundings. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Computer plotted soundings. 0013 Select soundings and contour worksheet. 0014 Soundings and contours. 0015 Select depth transparency. 0016 Province data transparency. 0017 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0002 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0003 Select soundings and contour selection sheet.
0001 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings collection sheet. 0006 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings and geology.
0001 Computer-plotted, color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0008A-B Profile. 0008C Color-coded select soundings.
0001A-J Profiles. 0001K Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings and contours.
0001 Select soundings 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings collection sheet. 0002A-E Profiles. 0002F Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002A-D Profiles. 0002E Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002A Profiles. 0002B Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Contours.
0001A Profile. 0001B Color-coded select sounding.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 259/03. 0002 Select soundings and contour sheet 229/06. 0003 Select soundings and contour sheet 259/08. 0004 Select soundings and contour sheet 229/11. 0005 Select soundings and contour sheet 259/13. 0005 Select soundings and contour sheet 259/14. 0007 Select soundings and contour sheet 229/16. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 Select soundings collection sheet. 0013 C.S. Mercury tracks. 0014 C.S. Mercury tracks.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 198/06. 0002 Select soundings and contour sheet 198/11. 0003 Select soundings and contour sheet 198/16. 0004 Select soundings and contour sheet 229/01. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Select soundings collection sheet. 0009 Select soundings collection sheet. 0010 Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Soundings collection sheet. 0012 C.S. Mercury track.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 259/19. 0002 Contours. 0003 Contours. 0004 Contours and select contours. 0005 Computer plotted soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Glomar challenger soundings. 0002 Tracks and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Glomar tracks and select soundings. 0007 Glomar tracks and select soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Cable data. 0011A-EE Profiles. 0011FF Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Pioneer soundings. 0013 Pioneer soundings. 0014 Pioneer soundings. 0015 Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Soundings collection sheet. 0017 Soundings collection sheet. 0018 Soundings collection sheet. 0019 Soundings collection sheet. 0020 Soundings collection sheet. 0021 Soundings collection sheet. 0022 Soundings collection sheet. 0023 Soundings collection sheet. 0024 Soundings collection sheet. 0025 Cable data. 0026 Cable data. 0027 Cable data. 0028 Tracks, select depths, and sea mounts. 0029 Scripps contours.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 167/08.
0001 Cable data.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Computer plotted soundings. 0003 Soundings collection sheet. 0004 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings and select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0004 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007A-W Profiles. 0007X Select soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Soundings. 0010 Select soundings. 0011 Select soundings. 0012 Select soundings. 0013 Select soundings. 0014 Soundings collection sheet. 0015 Pioneer soundings. 0016 Cable data. 0017 Cable data. 0018 Cable data. 0019 Select depth transparency. 0020 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008A-N Profiles. 0008M Color-coded select soundings. 0009A-O Profiles. 0009P Color-code select soundings. 0010 Select soundings. 0011 Soundings and select soundings. 0013 Select soundings. 0014 Computer plotted soundings. 0015 Select soundings collection sheet. 0016 Contours. 0017 Select depth transparency. 0018 Province map transparency. 0019 Scripps contours.
0001 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings transparency. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings and seamounts. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Color-coded soundings. 0010 Color-coded soundings. 0011 Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Color-coded select soundings. 0013 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0014 Glomar Challenger soundings. 0015 Select soundings. 0016 Color-coded select soundings. 0017 Color-coded select soundings. 0018 Select soundings. 0019 Select soundings collection sheet. 0020 Select soundings collection sheet. 0021 Select soundings collection sheet. 0022 Select soundings collection sheet. 0023 Select soundings collection sheet. 0024 Select soundings collection sheet. 0025 Soundings collection sheet. 0026 Select depth transparency. 0027 Province map transparency. 0028 Province map transparency. 0029 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings with locations. 0002 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0006 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings and geology. 0003 Soundings and geology. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Select soundings.
0001 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings and contours. 0007 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded track transparency. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select-soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Select-soundings. 0006 Select-soundings. 0007 Color-coded computer-plotted soundings. 0006 Select-soundings. 0008A-C Profiles. 0008D Color-coded soundings and select soundings.
0001 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002A-DProfiles. 0002E Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0001 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks, soundings, and select soundings from Vema 16. 0001 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings collection sheet. 0004 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet. 0005 C.S. Mercury track.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet, 167/01. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings and select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Select soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Color-coded soundings. 0009 Soundings collection sheet. 0010 Soundings collection sheet. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Pioneer soundings. 0013 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 167/07. 0002 Soundings with locations. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings and select soundings. 0007 Soundings and select soundings collection sheet. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Select soundings. 0010 Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Select soundings. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Soundings collection sheet. 0014 Color-coded select soundings. 0015 Color-coded select soundings. 0016 Select soundings and contours. 0017 Pioneer soundings. 0018 Pioneer soundings. 0019 Cable data. 0020 Cable data.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Shoreline map.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet 136/18. 0002 Select soundings and contour sheet 136/19. 0003 Select soundings and contour sheet 136/30. 0004 Select soundings and contour sheet 137/16. 0005 Select soundings and contour sheet 167/02. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings. 0008 Soundings. 0009 Color-coded select soundings. 0010 Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Soundings. 0013 Computer-plotted soundings. 0014 Pioneer soundings. 0015 Soundings collection sheet. 0016 Color-coded collection sheet transparency. 0017A Cable data. 0017B Overlay for 17A Cable data. 0018 Cable data. 0019 Cable data. 0020 C.S. Mercury tracks.
0001 Cable data. 0002 Cable data.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded tracks, soundings, and select soundings. 0010A Profile. 0010B Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded select soundings. 0010 Color-coded soundings. 0011 Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Soundings collection sheet. 0013 Computer plotted soundings. 0014 Soundings collection sheet. 0015 Scripps contours.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Select soundings.
0001 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings and select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings and geology.
0001 Color-coded computer soundings.
0001 Color-coded computer plotted soundings.
0001 Scripps contours.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Select soundings. 0007 Select soundings. 0008 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002A-G Profiles. 0002H Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Computer-plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks and select soundings.
0001 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select depths.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004A-H Profiles. 0004I Soundings and select soundings. 0005 Collection sheet. 0006 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003A-R Profiles. 0003S Select soundings. 0004 Select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Tracks with locations. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005A-MM Profiles. 0005NN Color-coded select soundings. 0006 Tracks. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings. 0009 Color-coded select soundings. 0010 Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Pioneer soundings. 0012 Pioneer soundings. 0013 Cable data. 0014 Cable data. 0015 Cable data. 0016 Cable data.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings and contour sheet, 135/15. 0002 Select soundings and contour sheet, 136/16. 0003 Select soundings and contour sheet, 136/17. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008A-S Profiles. 0008T Color-coded select soundings. 0009A-U Profiles. 0009V Color-coded select soundings. 0010A-K Profiles. 0010L Color-coded select soundings. 0011 Color-coded select soundings. 0012 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet. 0013 Cable data. 0014 C.S. Mercury Track 0015 C.S. Mercury Track
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings collection sheet. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Color-coded soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded select soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings and province data.
0001 Computer plotted soundings. 0002 Computer plotted soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002A-C Profiles. 0002D Select soundings.
0001 Select soundings.
0001A-C Profiles. 0001D Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Pioneer soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Pioneer soundings. 0008 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Source material overlay. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Color-coded track with select soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded track with soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings collection sheet. 0001 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded tracks with select soundings. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Soundings and select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded select soundings. 0005 Soundings and select soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded select soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings collection sheet. 0006 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Color-coded computer plotted soundings – Eltanin 55. 0002 Eltanin 55 computer plotted soundings. 0003 Eltanin 55 computer plotted select soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Soundings and select soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks with soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings collection sheet. 0005 Soundings collection sheet.
0001 Eltanin 55 computer plotted soundings. 0002 Eltanin 55 computer plotted select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003A Profile. 0003B Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Completed sequence sheet.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003A Profile. 0003B Select soundings.
0001 Soundings and select soundings. 0002 Soundings and select soundings.
0001A-B Profile. 0001C Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0006 Soundings collection sheet. 0007 Soundings collection sheet. 0008 Pioneer soundings. 0009 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Select depths. 0002 Pioneer soundings. 0003 Pioneer soundings.
0001 Profile I 255. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings. 0005 Pioneer soundings. 0006 Pioneer soundings. 0007 Pioneer soundings. 0008 Contours.
0001 Pioneer soundings 0002 Pioneer soundings
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Select soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Pioneer soundings 0005 Pioneer soundings 0006 Pioneer soundings 0007 Pioneer soundings
0001 Pioneer soundings
237 items
a. Film negative b. From 48˚ to 54˚ North and 121˚ to 128˚ West. Monaco scale.
a. Film negative b. From 44˚ to 50˚ North and 156˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Film positive b. From 3˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. 1:10,000,000
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 45˚ South and 90˚ to 180˚ East. Prepared by the Hydrographic Office R.A.N., Sydney, Australia. January, 1975.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 8˚ North and 117˚ to 123˚ East. March, 1962. 1:1,000,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 3˚ to 8˚ North and 117˚ to 123˚ East. March, 1962. 1:1,000,000
a. Positive print b. From 2˚ to 7˚ North and 123˚ to 129˚ East. March, 1963. 1:1,000,000
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 50˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 1 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 40˚ to 50˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 1 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 2 of 10. Includes inset map showing track chart of precision sounding data.
a. Film positive b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 2 of 10. Includes inset map showing track chart of precision sounding data.
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 3 of 10. Includes inset of five profiles.
a. Film positive b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 3 of 10. Includes inset of five profiles.
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 4 of 10. Includes inset showing four profiles.
a. Film positive b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 4 of 10. Includes inset showing four profiles.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 5 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 5 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 6 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 7 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 7 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 8 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 8 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 9 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 9 of 10.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 10 of 10.
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. October, 1970. Chart 10 of 10.
a. Ozalid. b. From 52˚ to 61˚ South and 22˚ to 33˚ West. PDR records from U.S.N.S. Eltanin - Cruise 8. Compiled by Charles W. Holmes, Florida State University, June 1963.
a. Film positive b. From 35˚ to 50˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. No. 6301, Sheet 1. 1:3,000,000
a. Film positive b. From 20˚ to 35˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. No. 6302, Sheet 2. 1:3,000,000
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 170˚ East. From the Bulletin of the Geologic Society of America, Vol. 65, Plate No. 1. By Dietz. Compiled and printed by the Japanese Hydrographic Office, 30 May 1963. Japanese shaded contour style. Chart No. 6901. 1:8,000,000
a. Film positive b. From 0˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 170˚ East. From the Bulletin of the Geologic Society of America, Vol. 65, Plate No. 1. By Dietz. Compiled and printed by the Japanese Hydrographic Office, 30 May 1963. Japanese shaded contour style. Chart No. 6901. 1:8,000,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. December, 1969. Sheet 2 of 4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 170˚ West to 160˚ East. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. November, 1969. Sheet 3 of 4.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. December, 1969. Sheet 4 of 4.
a. Frosted acetate overlay b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. December, 1969. Sheet 4 of 4. Shows fathoms to corrected meters in red.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. December, 1969. Sheet 4 of 4 Reduced version of 0023A.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. December, 1969. Sheet 4 of 4.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. Sheet 1 of 3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. Sheet 2 of 3.
a. Positive transparency b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. Sheet 3 of 3.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. Sheet 3 of 3.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey. ESSA Monograph 3. Nichols and Perry, 1966. Plate 2 (Kiska) of 6. 1:400,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 72˚ to 79˚ South and 140˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 72˚ to 79˚ South and 165˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 50˚ South and 110˚ West to 160˚ East. French version.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 47˚ South and 160˚ West to 150˚ East. French version.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 45˚ South and 130˚ to 180˚ East. New Zealand and east coast of Australia missing.
a. Film negative b. From 35˚ to 67˚ South and 170˚ East to 90˚ West. By Mammerickx and Smith. Scripps Institute of Oceanography, 1973
a. Film negative b. From 51˚ to 67˚ South and 90˚ to 146˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography, 1973
a. Film negative b. From 15˚ to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Chart preparation primarily funded by the office for the International Decade of Ocean Exploration (IDOE) of the National Science Foundation. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. May 1976.
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ North to 15˚ South and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Chart preparation primarily funded by the office for the International Decade of Ocean Exploration (IDOE) of the National Science Foundation. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. May 1976.
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Institution of Oceanography and Undersea Surveillance Oceanographic Center. July, 1968. Sheet 1 of 3.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 68˚ South and 110˚ to 154˚ East.
a. Ozalid
a. Film negative b. From 2˚ South to 2˚ North and 86˚ to 93˚ West. Prepared by the U.S. Commercial Bureau of Fisheries and the University of California Institute of Marine Sciences. Special Chart No. 1.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Special Chart No. 2.
a. Film negative b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Prepared by the U.S. Commercial Bureau of Fisheries and the University of California Institute of Marine Sciences.
a. Film negative b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 2.
a. Film negative b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 3.
a. Film negative b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 4.
a. Film negative b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 100˚ to 110˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 5.
a. Film negative b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 6.
a. Film negative b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 7.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 8.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 9.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 100˚ to 110˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 10.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 11.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 13.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 14.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 10˚ North and 100˚ to 110˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 15.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 17.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 90˚ to 100˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 18.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 90˚ North and 77˚ to 80˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 12.
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ North to 4˚ South and 77˚ to 8˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 16.
a. Film negative b. From 7˚ to 11˚ South and 77˚ to 87˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 19.
a. Film negative b. From 4˚ to 11˚ South and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 20.
a. Film negative b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 71˚ to 80˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 21.
a. Film negative b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 22.
a. Film negative b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 23.
a. Film negative b. From 18˚ to 24˚ South and 80˚ to 90˚ West. Topographic Chart No. 24.
a. Film positive. b. From 0˚ to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. Chart Nos. 21A & B of 21. Scripts Institute: by J. Mammerickx. S. M. Smith, I.L. Taylor and T.E. Chase. Technical Report 54A, April 1974.
a. Tracing paper. b. Color-coded contours.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ North and 120˚ to 160˚ West. February 1969.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 50˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 59˚ to 63˚ South and 30˚ to 54˚ West. Indicates bottom characteristics.
a. Frosted acetate on a positive print. b. From 5˚ to 38˚ South and 140˚ East to 170˚ West. By the Scripps Inst. and the University of California. Preliminary copy, 20 March 1968.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 33˚ North to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 110˚ West. Pencil copy.
a. Negative transparency. b. Covers entire Pacific Ocean.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Covers entire Pacific Ocean.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ to 38˚ South and 175˚ West to 140˚ East. Color-coded islands and seamounts.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 130˚ East to 150˚ West. July 1969.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ North and 115˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ North to 10˚ South and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Graph paper, Positive transparency, and frosted acetate overlay. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Set 1 of 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Set 1 of 3. Print of items in 0077a-c.
a. Graph paper, positive transparency, and frosted acetate overlay. b. From 0˚ to 42˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Set 2 of 3.
a. Graph paper, positive transparency, and frosted acetate overlay. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 3 of 3, print of items in 0080a-c.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 4 of 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Sheet 1 of 3.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Sheet 1 of 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Sheet 2 of 3.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Sheet 2 of 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Sheet 3 of 3. Also includes Gulf of Mexico and Part of the Caribbean.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 1 of 10, July 1968.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 2 of 10, October 1969. Includes a track index of the Northern Pacific.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 3 of 10, December 1969. Also includes profiles A through E.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 4 of 10. Includes profiles A and F through H.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 44˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 5 of 10, September 1968.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 44˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 5 of 10, October 1970. Color print.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 7 of 10, November 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 8 of 10, November 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 9 of 10, October 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 10 of 10. Includes Gulf of Mexico and Western Caribbean.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Menard, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 10 of 10. Includes Gulf of Mexico and Western Caribbean.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 11 of 21. 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 11 of 21. 1971.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 12 of 21. 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 12 of 21. 1971.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 13 of 21. December 1973.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 13 of 21. December 1973.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 14 of 21. January 1974.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 14 of 21. January 1974.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 15 of 21. February 1974.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 15 of 21. February 1974.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 18 of 21. September 1973.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 18 of 21. September 1973.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 19 of 21. September 1973.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 19 of 21. September 1973.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 20 of 21. March 1974.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 67˚ South and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 20 of 21. March 1974.
a. Paper. b. 21a 0˚ to 40˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. 21b 40˚ to 67˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. Work done by Chase, Smith, Taylor, and Mammericks of the Scripps Inst. Chart 21a and b. April 1974.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 35˚ to 67˚ South and 160˚ West to 170˚ East. Figure 1, by P. Nolnar.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 67˚ South and 160˚ West to 170˚ East. Figure 1, by P. Nolnar.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 2˚ 20’ North and 118˚ to 120˚ East. Figure 1.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ 40’ to 5˚ North and 118˚ 25’ to 119˚ 50’ East. Figure 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ 30’ to 3˚ North and 125˚ to 126˚ East. Figure 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 7˚ to 9˚ South and 129˚ to 131˚ East. Figure 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ to 11˚ 30’ South and 120˚ 40’ to 123˚ 10’ East. Figure 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 7˚ to 8˚ 30’ South and 118˚ to 120˚ East. Figure 6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 8˚ to 9˚ 15’ South and 124˚ to 126˚ East. Figure 7.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 6˚ 50’ to 8˚ 30’ South and 121˚ to 123˚ East. Figure 8.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ to 7˚ South and 123˚ to 125˚ East. Figure 9.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ 20’ to 3˚ 10’ South and 125˚ 40’ to 126˚ 20’ East. Figure 10.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 1˚ 20’ to 2˚ South and 125˚ 20’ to 127˚ 30’ East. Figure 11.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ 50’ to 4˚ 30’ South and 126˚ 50’ to 128˚ 20’ East. Figure 12.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 2˚ 30’ to 5˚ North and 127˚ to 129˚ East. Figure 13.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 4˚ to 6˚ 20’ North and 125˚ to 127˚ 20’ East. Figure 15.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 3˚ 15’ to 5˚ South and 129˚ 40’ to 130˚ 20’ East. Figure 16.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 10˚ North to 6˚ South and 78˚ to 92˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East. Chart SP-1. Signed by R. Murchison, April 1975.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Chart SP-2.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Chart SP-3.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 50˚ to 90˚ West. Chart SP-3a.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East. Chart SP-4. Signed by Murchison, April 1975.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Chart SP-5. Signed by Murchison, June 1975.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Chart SP-6. Signed by Lombardi, July 1975.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 170˚ West to 150˚ East. Chart SP-7. Signed by F.H. Sorenson, January 1976.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Chart SP-8. Signed by F.H. Sorenson, February 1976.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Chart SP-9. Signed by F.H. Sorenson, March 1976.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 0˚ to 47˚ South and 100˚ to 180˚ East. Chart SP-9. “Neg. from Russian Atlas blown up to 1:10,000,000. The purpose of this blowup was to trace Australia and surrounding islands’ topography and drainage patterns onto the map of the Indian Ocean and the WOF Panorama.”
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 37˚ to 44˚ South and 174˚ to 180˚ East. Final graphic.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 37˚ to 44˚ South and 174˚ to 180˚ East. Final graphic.
a. Positive print. b. From 11˚ to 39˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Monaco scale.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 26˚ to 42˚ South.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ to 50˚ South and 150˚ West to 170˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Covers the entire Pacific Ocean.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 44˚ to 52˚ North and 146˚ to 153˚ East. Page 53, covering the Kuril Islands. Used in a Russian grade- school atlas.
a. Paper. b. From 26˚ to 44˚ South and 173˚ West to 173˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 175˚ West to 175˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ to 35˚ South and 140˚ East to 170˚ West. Partial sheet, dated 20 March 1968.
a. Paper. b. From 13˚ to 27˚ South and 170˚ to 177˚ West. Capricorn expedition, December 1952 – January 1953.
a. Positive print. b. From 43˚ to 48˚ North and 124˚ to 129˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ to 16˚ North and 80˚ to 95˚ West. Includes some selected soundings.
a. Paper. b. Covers Pacific and Indian Ocean. Includes core sites.
a. Paper. b. From 11˚ North to 15˚ South and 92˚ to 135˚ East. Plot II.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Plot III. Covers Navy Ocean Area, Region 9. “Marie, this is all Bill Morton(?) can find. You might call Allen Lowrie(?) about the last week of October, and ask for a Xerox of the seamount contours where you will undoubtedly not be able to see them on this photocopy of NP-9. Bill Morton’s(?) copies are in temporary storage. Allen’s are at his house locked up. –Jay E.”
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 24˚ to 50˚ South and 146˚ to 170˚ East. Ringis and Hayes, 1972.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 150˚ East. Figure 1.5, sheet 12 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ East. Figure 1.6, sheet 13 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 150˚ West to 160˚ East. Figure 1.7, sheet 14 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ West. Figure 1.8, sheet 15 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 90˚ to 120˚ West. Figure 1.9, sheet 16 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 20˚ South and 110˚ to 150˚ East. Figure 1.10, sheet 17 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ North to 30˚ South and 150˚ East to 170˚ West. Figure 1.11, sheet 18 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 30˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Figure 1.12, sheet 19 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ North to 20˚ South and 100˚ to 130˚ West. Figure 1.13, sheet 20 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ North to 20˚ South and 70˚ to 120˚ West. Figure 1.14, sheet 21 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East. Figure 1.15, sheet 22 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ West. Figure 1.16, sheet 23 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 100˚ to 130˚ West. Figure 1.17, sheet 24 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 40˚ South and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Figure 1.18, sheet 25 of 25. Work by B. Manard.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 45˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ East. Copy of the master number sheet.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 175˚ to 185˚ West. By Nichols and Perry. Plate 3.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 140˚ to 170˚ West. Sheet 4 of 4 preliminary copy, December 1969.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Inst., July 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 42˚ North and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Scripps Inst., Sheet 2 of 3 September 1968.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Scripps Inst., Sheet 3 of 3 December 1968.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 5˚ to 38˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Inst., under the direction of Menard.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 5˚ to 38˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps Inst., under the direction of Menard.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ north and 130˚ to 160˚ East. University of California, December 1968.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 130˚ East to 130˚ West. Drawn by Orwig, from G.B. Udintsev, July 1969.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 130˚ East to 130˚ West. Drawn by Orwig, from G.B. Udintsev, July 1969.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 68˚ South and 110˚ to 160˚ East. Hayes and Conolly, 1971.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Covers Matthew’s zones 41 and 42. Includes two Mathew’s conversion tables.
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 133˚ to 145˚ East. Sheet 1a-d.
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 121˚ to 133˚ East. Sheet 3.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ to 42˚ South and 133˚ to 145˚ East.
a. Negative print. b. From 43˚ to 48˚ North and 124˚ to 129˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 2˚ 40’ to 4˚ 10’ North and 77˚ to 78˚ 30’ West. From a survey by the USS Maury.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. By Scripps Inst., May 1976.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 36˚ South and 109˚ to 129˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ South and 135˚ to 180˚ East. Northeast Sheet. By the Royal Australian Navy.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 50˚ to 60˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ West. February 1969.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 90˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 119˚ to 129˚ East. Near Borneo.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 41˚ to 42˚ South and 174˚ to 177˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 169˚ to 179˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ South and 75˚ to 81˚ West. Shows tracks of the RV Horizon and RV Spencer F Baird.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ to 34˚ South and 68˚ to 75˚ West. Shows tracks of the RV Horizon and RV Spencer F Baird.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 17˚ to 33˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Classification notations.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 13˚ to 31˚ North and 169˚ West to 178˚ East. Classification notations.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Pencil copy.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 53˚ to 55˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ West. Pencil sketch.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Pencil sketch.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ West. Plate 4.
a. Frosted acetate overlay on paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 165˚ to 170˚ West. Plate 5.
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 160˚ to 165˚ West. Plate 6.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 25˚ South. Pen and Ink copy.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 25˚ to 31˚ South. Pen and Ink copy.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 31˚ to 36˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 36˚ to 39˚ South and 175˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 11˚ to 18˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 2˚ North to 1˚ South and 160˚ to 163˚ East. Konakiolki site survey, May/June/August 1971. Preliminary bathymetric chart, by Hawaiian Inst.
a. Paper. b. From 58˚ to 59˚ North and 136˚ to 138˚ East. Produced by Hematite Petroleum PTY. LTD.
156 items
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 150˚ East to 170˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Chart numbers 11 of 21 and 12 of 21. SP-1.
a. Ozalid reduction b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 150˚ East to 170˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Chart numbers 11 of 21 and 12 of 21. SP-1.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Scripps sheet numbers 13 and 14. SP-2.
a. Ozalid reduction b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Scripps sheet numbers 13 and 14. SP-2.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Scripps sheet numbers 14 and 15. SP-3.
a. Ozalid reduction b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Sources include Scripps and Bathy of the South Pacific. Scripps sheet numbers 14 and 15. SP-3.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 29˚ South and 50˚ to 90˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 15 and 21A. SP-3A.
a. Film negative b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps sheet numbers 11, 12, 16 and 17. SP-4.
a. Film negative b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 13, 14, 18 and 19. SP-5.
a. Film negative b. From 29˚ to 49˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 14, 15, 19, and 20. SP-6.
a. Film negative b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps sheet numbers 16 and 17. SP-7.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ East. Scripps sheet numbers 16 and 17. SP-7.
a. Film negative b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 18 and 19. SP-8.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 130˚ to 170˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 18 and 19. SP-8.
a. Film negative b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 19 and 20. SP-9.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 90˚ to 130˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 19 and 20. SP-9.
a. Film negative b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 50˚ to 90˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 20 and 21B. SP-9A and SA-5A.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 49˚ to 64˚ South and 50˚ to 90˚ West. Scripps sheet numbers 20 and 21B. SP-9A and SA-5A.
a. Film negative b. From 0˚ to 29˚ North and 10˚ West to 28˚ East. Scripps sheet number NA11.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ to 58˚ South and 110˚ to 154˚ East.
a. Film negative b. Contours are in Mathews corrected meters. Scripps Institute of Oceanography. July, 1968. 1:2,000,000
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 130˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Positive transparency b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1904N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ 30' to 16˚ 50' North and 116˚ 30 to 117˚ East. Jess Elton to Hong Kong (Route A). Area 165/1. Sounding survey by C. S. Recorder, 2 June to 7 July 1962. Sheet 32A.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 60˚ to 70˚ South and 140˚ to 170˚ West.
a. Film negative b. 1202N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1203N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1204N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1302N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1303N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1304N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1402N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1403N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1404N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1502N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1503N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1504N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1602N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. 1603N, dated January 1977. 1:5,000,000
a. Film negative b. From 35˚ to 50˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Published at Tokyo 20 July 1966. Chart 6301. Sheet 1. 1:3,000,000
a. Film negative b. From 15˚ to 35˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Published at Tokyo 20 July 1966. Chart 6302. Sheet 2. 1:3,000,000
a. Positive print b. From 6˚ South to 30˚ North and 107˚ to 153˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 36˚ South and 169˚ East to 179˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 145˚ to 157˚ East. GEBCO No. 473.
a. Ozalid. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 150˚ to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid
a. Ozalid. b. From 21˚ to 22˚ 30" North and 156˚ 40" to 159˚ 20" West. Hawaiian Institute of Geophysics. Covers Oahu, Molokai, and Lanai. 1:247,482
a. Positive transparency b. From 57˚ 30" to 65˚ South and 157˚ to 169˚ East. New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, 1972.
a. Negative print. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. U.S. Navy 1406N. Prepared by the Scripps Institute of Oceanography.
a. Negative print. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. U.S. Navy 1306N. Prepared by the Scripps Institute of Oceanography.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 58˚ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 61˚ to 66˚ South and 110˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. Oversized composite
a. Ozalid. b. Scripps Institute of Oceanography
a. Film negative b. From 55˚ to 71˚ South and 164˚ East to 164 West.
a. Film negative b. From 60˚ to 71˚ South and 155˚ East to 140˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 35˚ to 55˚ South and 170˚ East to 140˚ West. Covers the Heezen and Tharp Fracture Zones.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Linen b. Note: "Item never published. Drawing not quite finished."
a. Film negative b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. BC 0902N.
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 80˚ to 90˚ West. BC 0903N
a. Film negative b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ West. B1003.
a. Film negative b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 100˚ to 110˚ West. BC 1104N.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 76˚ South and 135˚ West to 150˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 80˚ North and 77˚ West to 100˚ East. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 80˚ North and 77˚ West to 100˚ East. Overlay highlighting the islands of the Pacific Ocean in orange ink. Rolled item.
a. Ozalid. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Note: "Revised by M. McCall. April 16, 1979. Covers area 498."
a. Ozalid. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Note: "Revised by M. McCall. April 16, 1979. Covers area 499."
a. Ozalid. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 135˚ East. Note: "Revised by M. McCall. April 18, 1979. Covers area 522."
a. Ozalid. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Note: "Revised by M. McCall. April 17, 1979. Covers area 523."
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 60˚ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 68˚ South and 110˚ to 153˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ to 40˚ South and 140˚ to 180˚ West. Covers Samoa, New Zealand, and the Tonga Trench.
a. Paper. b. From 52˚ 20 North and 160˚ 30’ West. Seamount discovered by Vema 16.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ North and 120˚ to 160˚ West. February 1969.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 2˚ North to 2˚ South and 83˚ to 96˚ West. Special chart no.1, prepared by the US Bureau of Fisheries.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 49˚ South and 150˚ East to 90˚ West. Contours by Scripps Inst. SP-6.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 14˚ to 26˚ South and 170˚ to 176˚ West.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 16 of the continental series.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ South to 30˚ North and 160˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Negative print. b. From 28˚ to 34˚ North and 115˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 32˚ North and 107˚ to 117˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. no other information.
a. Positive print. b. Includes select soundings and seamount elevations.
a. Frosted acetate graph paper. b. From 3˚ to 4˚ North and 80˚ 40’ to 82˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Positive transparency mosaic. b. Includes topographic Chart no. 1, 2, 3, 5, 9, and others.
a. Positive transparency. b. Includes data for figures 12, 13, and 36. 6 individual inset maps.
a. Positive print. b. Includes data for figures 12, 13, and 36. 6 individual inset maps.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 57˚ 30’ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East. Autographed by Douglas L. Fisher.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 60˚ to 65˚ South and 125˚ to 144˚ East. Sheet 6a – 6d.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet 2.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 150˚ to 165˚ East. Sheet 3a to 3d.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 135˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet 4a to 4d.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 37˚ to 44˚ South and 173˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 67˚ South and 170˚ East to 90˚ West. Contours by P. Molnar.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 35˚ to 67˚ South and 170˚ East to 90˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 54˚ to 60˚ South and 160˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. Covers 1603 N. Composite of 14 positive prints.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ 17’ to 16˚ 25’ South and 145˚ 57’ to 146˚ 07’ East. Part of the C.S. Recorder Survey, July 1961. Covers 2203 S.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 30’ North and 179˚ 30’ to 180˚ West. Aries 5, by M. Bond, 10 July 1973.
a. Paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 30’ North and 179˚ 30’ to 180˚ West. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 40’ North and 176˚ to 177˚ East. Survey 15 – 16 May 1971. Signed by M. Bond. Aries 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ 10’ to 19˚ 40’ North and 176˚ 30’ to 177˚ East. Signed by M. Bond. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 19˚ 10’ to 19˚ 40’ North and 176˚ 30’ to 177˚ East. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 21˚ 50’ to 22˚ 20’ North and 171˚ 20’ to 171˚ 50’ East. Aries 5. Darwin guyot. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ 50’ to 22˚ 20’ North and 171˚ 20’ to 171˚ 50’ East. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ 50’ to 21˚ 30’ North and 165˚ 50’ to 166˚ 45’ East. Aries 5. Survey done 21- 22 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ 50’ to 21˚ 30’ North and 166˚ 10’ to 166˚ 45’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ 50’ to 21˚ 30’ North and 166˚ 10’ to 166˚ 45’ East. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 21˚ 20’ to 22˚ North and 161˚ 20’ to 162˚ 15’ East. Aries 5. Survey done 23 – 24 May 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 21˚ 20’ to 22˚ North and 161˚ 40’ to 162˚ 10’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ 20’ to 22˚ North and 160˚ 10’ to 160˚ 40’ East. Aries 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 29˚ 20’ to 29˚ 50’ North and 153˚ 10’ to 153˚ 50’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ 20’ to 29˚ 50’ North and 153˚ 10’ to 153˚ 50’ East. Aries 5.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 33˚ 50’ to 34˚ 20’ North and 145˚ 20’ to 146˚ 15’ East. Aries 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 33˚ 50’ to 34˚ 20’ North and 145˚ 40’ to 146˚ 15’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Paper. b. From 33˚ 50’ to 34˚ 20’ North and 145˚ 40’ to 146˚ 15’ East. Aries 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ 30’ to 19˚ 30’ North and 171˚ to 171˚ 40’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond, Figure 10.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ 20’ to 17˚ 50’ North and 175˚ to 175˚ 40’ East. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond, Figure 13.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ 30’ to 18˚ North and 175˚ 30’ to 176˚ 20’ West. Aries 5. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 70˚ West to 100˚ East. Covers entire Pacific, first proof, includes land based earthquakes.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 18˚ 37’ North and 159˚ to 160˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag, Java plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ to 18˚ 37’ North and 159˚ to 160˚ East. Hawaii to Ontag, Java plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 8˚ 57’to 9˚ 43’ North and 158˚ 10’ to 159˚ 2’ East. Hawaii to Ontag, Java plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 8˚ 57’to 9˚ 43’ North and 158˚ 10’ to 159˚ 2’ East. Hawaii to Ontag, Java plateau. May, June, and August 1971.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 160˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 57˚ to 66˚ South and 156˚ to 170˚ East. Contours in 250 meter intervals. Pencil copy.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 4˚ to 6˚ North and 83˚ 40’ to 87˚ 40’ West. Contours in 250 meter intervals. Pencil copy.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 39˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ West to 130˚ East. Signed by M. Bond.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 70˚ to 80˚ West. Includes color-coded tracks.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 5˚ South to 20˚ North and 105˚ to 155˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 67˚ South to 35˚ North and 70˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 21˚ North and 64˚ to 69˚ West. Chart modified to accommodate the Long Lines 8 depth data- at BCH’s suggestion, along the South Wall, the contours were smoothed to present a neater picture with the Long Lines 8 soundings. 18 February 1966.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 16˚ South to 4˚ North and 110˚ to 135˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 65˚ South to 35˚ North and 70˚ to 110˚ West. Includes contours in the Gulf of Mexico.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 11˚ South to 37˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 133˚ to 143˚ West. Covers 1506N, pencil sketch, sheet no. 3.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 131˚ to 142˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ West to 130˚ East. Color-coded contours by meters, selected spot depths and Matthew’s Areas highlighted. Rolled item. Donr by M. Bond. 10 August 1973.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 38˚ to 42˚ South and 174˚ to 180˚ East. Off the West coast of New Zealand.
a. Tracing paper. b. No other information.
a. Tracing paper. b. Near New Zealand.
a. Paper. b. From 45˚ to 49˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. 1309 N. Classification notations.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. 1310 N. Classification notations.
a. Paper. b. From 49˚ to 53˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. 1410 N. Classification notations.
a. Paper. b. From 53˚ to 56˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. 1411 N. Classification notations.
a. Negative print. b. From 5˚ to 15˚ North and 99˚ to 105˚ East. Based on Naga hydrographic station and BT station depths, figure 28.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 16˚ North and 108˚ to 104˚ East. Data from the RV Stranger and the RV Argo.
a. Paper. b. From 8˚ to 10˚ North and 112˚ to 117˚ East. Vertical profiles, contours, and sketch.
a. Paper. b. From 8˚ to 9˚ North and 114˚ to 116˚ West. Pencil sketch.
a. Paper. b. tracks and contours.
a. Paper. b. Tracks, contours, and profiles.
a. Paper. b. Tracks, contours, and profiles.
67 items
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ North to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Lamont Geological Observatory.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ North to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Lamont Geological Observatory.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Lamont Geological Observatory.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ North to 70˚ South and 150˚ East to 150˚ West. Lamont Geological Observatory.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 7˚ to 31˚ North and 76˚ to 116˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ to 25˚ South and 145˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 5˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East. Notes: "Pacific doodles for the physical diagram. From a Russian atlas.'
a. Film negative b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East. Note: "Scale had to be changed."
a. Positive print b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East. Preliminary sketch.
a. Positive print b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 2˚ to 23˚ South and 135˚ to 170˚ East. Preliminary diagram.
a. Film negative b. From 2˚ to 23˚ South and 135˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Negative print. b. From 2˚ to 23˚ South and 135˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 2˚ to 23˚ South and 135˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Positive print b. Physiographic base by H. W. Menard. Province names after Hurley (1960).
a. Film negative. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Published by the U.S. Geologic Society of America, Boulder, Colorado. Lamont Doherty Laboratory and the U.S. Navy Oceanographic Office. By Heezen and Tharp.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Published by the U.S. Geologic Society of America, Boulder, Colorado. Lamont Doherty Laboratory and the U.S. Navy Oceanographic Office. By Heezen and Tharp.
a. Negative print
a. Negative print
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 150˚ to 170˚ West. 1:10,000,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 55˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. National Geographic Society. October, 1969. 1:36,432,000
a. Positive print. b. National Geographic Society. October, 1969. 1:36,432,000. Black and white proof without annotations.
a. Positive print. b. National Geographic Society. October, 1969. 1:36,432,000. Black and white proof with annotations.
a. Ozalid
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 20˚ South and 155˚ East to 170˚ West. Sheet 4 of 4. Compiled by Natasha.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 25˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Compiled by H. W. Menard and published by McGraw Hill Publishing Company. Figure 3.2 of Marine Geology of the Pacific, by H.W. Menard.
a. Original negative transparency. b. From 25˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Compiled by H. W. Menard and published by McGraw Hill Publishing Company. Figure 3.2 of Marine Geology of the Pacific, by H.W. Menard.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 25˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Compiled by H. W. Menard and published by McGraw Hill Publishing Company. Figure 3.2 of Marine Geology of the Pacific, by H.W. Menard.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 25˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West. Compiled by H. W. Menard and published by McGraw Hill Publishing Company. Figure 3.2 of Marine Geology of the Pacific, by H.W. Menard.
a. Ozalid. b. Compiled by H. W. Menard and published by McGraw Hill Publishing Company.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 45˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Paper. b. Published by the Geological Society of America, 1964. Note: "This part of the physiographic diagram was never published."
a. Paper. b. Published by the Geological Society of America, 1964. Note: "This part of the physiographic diagram was never published." Sketches are not as complete as the previous version.
a. Ozalid. b. From 20˚ to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Published by the Geological Society of America, 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ North to 70˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ East. Drawn by Heezen (Lamont) and Tharp (Naval Oceanographic Office). Published by the Geological Society of America.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 15˚ to 20˚ North and 150˚ to 155˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 15˚ to 35˚ South and 170˚ East to 170˚ West. Shows fracture control lines and depths.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 15˚ to 35˚ South and 170˚ East to 170˚ West. Shows fracture lines and a coordinate grid.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ North and 70˚ to 125 ˚ East. Data from the Atlas Mira.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 20˚ South to 65˚ North and 120˚ East to 170 ˚ West. Data from the Atlas Mira.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ South to 65˚ North and 120˚ East to 170 ˚ West. Data from the Atlas Mira.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 20˚ South to 65˚ North and 120˚ East to 170 ˚ West. Data from the Atlas Mira.
a. Negative transparency. b. From 9˚ South to 25˚ North and 117˚ to 139˚ East. Preliminary sketch.
a. Negative print. b. From 5˚ North to 9˚ South and 117˚ to 139˚ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 48˚ to 72˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. From 48˚ to 72˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 130˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 165˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Positive print. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 165˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 165˚ West to 165˚ East.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. From 0˚ to 23˚ South and 135˚ to 175˚ East. Pen and ink preliminary sketch map.
a. Paper mosaic. b. From 20˚ South to 65˚ North and 120˚ East to 170˚ West. Prepared by the Soviet Institute of Oceanography, 1966.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 90˚ East to 70˚ West. Final first proof, black plate.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ South to 30˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ East. Some color enhancement.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Plate 1, proprietary data covering the North pacific. Work done by, A. Lowri.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Work by Heezen and Tharp, published by the USGS.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Work by Heezen and Tharp, published by the USGS.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Work by Heezen and Tharp, published by the USGS. Final color printed version, signed by B. Heezen.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 70˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Work by Heezen and Tharp, published by the USGS.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 130˚ to 160˚ East. Pen and ink version – Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 2˚ to 7˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 25˚ to 50˚ North and 145˚ to 170˚ East. Figure 2 – 2. Final ink graphic.
a. Paper. b. From 52˚ to 60˚ North and 114˚ to 180˚ East.
32 items
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ to 50˚ North and 120˚ East to 110˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ to 30˚ South and 141˚ to 170˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 70˚ North to 70˚ South and 70˚ to 155˚ West. Shows basins and earthquake locations.
a. Tracing paper b. From 70˚ North to 70˚ South and 70˚ to 155˚ West. Shows basins and earthquake locations. Pencil overlay shows trenches, plateaus, and ridges. As of 1960. Includes pen and ink sketch of a woman and the letters 'VENZ'.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 70˚ North to 70˚ South and 70˚ to 155˚ West. Shows basins and earthquake locations. Overlay with a 2-degree grid. Includes sketch of a Collie dog.
a. Linen b. From 30˚ to 65˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ East. Highlights the mid ocean ridge.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 15˚ 30" North and 115˚ to 121˚ East. Shows multiple tracks and selected soundings.
a. Ozalid. b. From 13˚ 30" to 15˚ 30" North and 115˚ to 121˚ East. Province map based on tracks and selected soundings plotted in 5A.
a. Film negative b. From 2˚ South to 64˚ North and 119˚ to 172˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 2˚ South to 64˚ North and 119˚ to 172˚ East. Overlay - Dietz Chart.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Province map at a scale of 1:10,000,000 transferred from 1:1,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 150˚ West to 120˚ East. Province map at a scale of 1:1,000,000 to 1:10,000,000.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 68˚ South and 166˚ West to 110˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. Early worksheet showing province boundaries, depths, color of ridge and rift valleys. 1:5,000,000. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 11˚ to 46˚ South and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Worked out by Marie Tharp. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 36˚ to 45˚ South and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Prepared by Marie Tharp at a scale of 1:1,000,000. Uncorrected fathoms are represented in pencil and corrected meters in ink. Shot down to 1:10,000,000 and used as a guide for SK map. Rolled item.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 160˚ West. Shows cable route between San Francisco and Hawaii. Figure 6.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Final publication graphic.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ to 22˚ South and 144˚ to 156˚ East. Figure 2, from Conolly, Falney, and Hawkin, 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ to 22˚ South and 144˚ to 156˚ East. Conolly, Falney, and Hawkin, 1969.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 5˚ to 60˚ North and 135˚ to 165˚ East. Chart no.4A North. By Smith, Chase, Farrell, Taylor, and Weed. 1965. Scripps Institution for Bell Telephone Laboratories. Sheet 2 of 3. Primitive province map of the Hawaiian Ridge and the intersection of the Murray and Molokai Fracture Zone.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ North and 80˚ to 135˚ West. Chart no.4B South. By Smith, Chase, Farrell, Taylor, and Weed. 1965. Scripps Institution for Bell Telephone Laboratories. Sheet 1 of 3. Primitive province map of the Hawaiian Ridge and the intersection of the Murray and Molokai Fracture Zone.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ to 40˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Color-coded sheet no.410.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 18˚ North to 45˚ South and 67˚ to 90˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 68˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 105˚ to 165˚ East. By Houtz and Markel, Figure 3, from seismic profiler studies.
a. Positive print. b. From 10˚ to 70˚ North and 70˚ to 150˚ West. Includes earthquake epicenters.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 50˚ South and 110˚ to 180˚ East. Preliminary pen and ink version.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Covers standard Navy Ocean-Area, Region-9. Work done by, Lawri. Plate 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 20˚ to 72˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Preliminary sketch.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 180˚ West. Color-coded, rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 180˚ West. Color-coded, rolled item.
141 items
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ to 30˚ North and 150˚ to 170˚ West.
a. Positive print
a. Positive print b. From 7˚ North to 16˚ South and 95˚ to 125˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 7˚ North to 16˚ South and 95˚ to 125˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 31˚ North to 8˚ South and 78˚ to 124˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 100˚ to 122˚ East. Page 54.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 25˚ North to 9˚ South and 100˚ to 122˚ East. Page 54.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 8˚ to 10˚ North and 162˚ 50" to 163˚ 50" East. Vema 34.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 3˚ to 23˚ North and 75˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Tracing paper b. From 0˚ to 35˚ North and 110˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Tracing paper b. From 31˚ to 34˚ North and 153˚ to 161˚ East.
a. Tracing paper
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 50˚ South and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 60˚ South and 120˚ to 170˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate
a. Frosted acetate b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 77˚ to 110˚ West. Sheet 10 of 10.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ to 180˚ East. Note: "Early conception doodling by Bruce C. Heezen."
a. Frosted acetate b. From 8˚ North to 20˚ South and 70˚ to 86˚ West. 1:5,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 20˚ to 46˚ South and 70˚ to 88˚ West. 1:5,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 20˚ to 46˚ South and 20˚ to 90˚ West. 1:5,000,000.
a. Graph paper b. From 12˚ 20" to 13˚ 30" North and 126˚ 35" to 157˚ 13" East. Vema 34, cruise #1. Seamount survey No. 2. 11/12 III 77.
a. Tracing paper b. From 31˚ to 34˚ North and 153˚ to 161˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 31˚ to 34˚ North and 153˚ to 161˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 41˚ South and 175˚ to 180˚ West. 1:1,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 60˚ to 72˚ South and 160˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 60˚ to 72˚ South and 160˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 44˚ to 54˚ North and 121˚ to 136˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 44˚ to 54˚ North and 121˚ to 136˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. Shows East Pacific Rise, Naska Ridge, etc.
a. Tracing paper
a. Ozalid. b. From 27˚ to 34˚ South and 90˚ to 100˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ North and 90˚ to 100˚ East.
a. Tracing paper
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. Notations indicated in red show course changes. Topographic profile drawn at 100:1.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 10˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 60˚ North and 150˚ West to 125˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 110˚ East. Includes detailed province information for Australia and Tasmania.
a. Tracing paper b. From 22˚ to 30˚ North and 108˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 51˚ to 55˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. From the Nichols and Perry maps, 1966, U.S. Geological Survey.
a. Ozalid
a. Tracing Paper b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 49˚ to 72˚ South and 165˚ West to 112˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 48˚ South and 160˚ West to 110˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 48˚ South and 165˚ West to 144˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 50˚ South and 160˚ West to 110˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 45˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 110˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 40˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 42˚ South and 121˚ to 133˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 60˚ to 63˚ South and 60˚ to 70˚ West. Note: "True deep trends are covered by mud by RUF but exist."
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 55˚ South and 80˚ to 155˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ East. From the Nichols and Perry maps, 1966, U.S. Geological Survey. Sheet 2 of 6.
a. Frosted acetate b. Rolled item
a. Frosted acetate b. From 15˚ to 31˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 4˚ South to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 45˚ to 51˚ South and 151˚ to 160˚ West. 1:1,000,000. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate b. Scaled from contours by Marie Tharp. Note: "Form lines used in (?) and that is where the regional gradient is shown as a sea mount."
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 10˚ North and 50˚ to 80˚ West. Minimal color-coded contours and depths.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 50˚ South and 155˚ to 180˚ East. Minimal contours.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ to 23˚ North and 132˚ to 137˚ East. Colored contours.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Tracks with soundings and structure. Scale: 1:10,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 175˚ to 180˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 50˚ South to 60˚ North and 70˚ to 140˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 116˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 28˚ North and 111˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 14˚ to 23˚ North and 93˚ to 106˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 14˚ to 23˚ North and 92˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 32˚ North and 105˚ to 125˚ West.
a. Positive transparency. b. Base grid, sheet no.3. Used for Atlas Geologique.
a. Frosted acetate. b. 1˚ grid, sheet 4.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 5˚ to 45˚ South and 145˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Contour overlay. Atlas Geologique -16
a. Frosted acetate. b. Bathymetry overlay in the vicinity of Australia and New Zealand.
a. Tracing paper. b. 6˚ 30’ by 85˚ (no other information).
a. Tracing paper. b. From 3˚ 30’ to 4˚ 20’ North and 80˚ 50’ to 82˚ 10’ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Overlay to “Bathymetry of the North Central Pacific.”
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Overlay to a transparency of “Bathymetry of the North Central Pacific.” Sheet 2 of 4.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ to 170˚ West. Overlay to a transparency of “Bathymetry of the North Central Pacific.” Sheet 4 of 4.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 150˚ West to 150˚ East. Covers the Northern Pacific.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 110˚ to 180˚ East. Done with colored pencils.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 35˚ to 45˚ North and 140˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 35˚ to 45˚ North and 140˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 35˚ to 45˚ North and 140˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 31˚ to 35˚ North and 130˚ East to 134˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 29˚ to 34˚ North and 115˚ East to 120˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 23˚ to 28˚ North and 112˚ to 120˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 101˚ to 110˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 14˚ to 18˚ North and 100˚ to 109˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Covers 1003 N.
a. Frosted acetate overlay on paper. b. From 4˚ South to 10˚ North and 77˚ to 93˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 43˚ South and 174˚ East to 179˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 37˚ to 41˚ South and 150˚ West to 170˚ East. Shows a zig-zag route across the trench.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 30˚ to 67˚ South and 110˚ West to 180˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 37˚ to 44˚ South and 174˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 36˚ to 40˚ North and 56˚ to 66˚ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 38˚ to 44˚ South and 174˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. Includes some contours.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 19˚ to 20˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Color-coded provinces.
a. Positive transparency. b. From 23˚ to 29˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Covers areas 2005 N.
a. Frosted acetate. b. 44˚ South and 168˚ 30’ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 40˚ South and 90˚ to 120˚ East.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 25˚ to 30˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 84˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 10˚ North to 50˚ South and 70˚ to 84˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 40˚ South and 100˚ to 130˚ East. Obsolete, pre-Eltanan 55.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 50˚ South and 165˚ East to 175˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil sketch with selected soundings.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 35˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ West to 160˚ East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 27˚ to 38˚ South and 175˚ West to 180˚ West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 28˚ to 32˚ South and 110˚ to 120˚ East. Covers 2505 and 2506 S.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 50˚ South and 70˚ West to 84˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. From 24˚ to 47˚ South and 70˚ to 90˚ West. Includes some color province map data.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 15˚ to 36˚ South and 113˚ to 125˚ East. “From tectonics of Australia per Allen Lowery, Geologic Society of Australia, 1960”
a. Ozalid paper. b. Covers the entire Pacific Ocean.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 60˚ North to 10˚ South and 90˚ West to 130˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Covers the entire Pacific region. Final first proof, but only shows epicenters for on land.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Covers BC1805 S, from 17˚ to 30˚ South and 170˚ East to 180˚ West. Complex map, including tracks, soundings, geology, and province information. Includes numerous inserts and colored pencil information.
a. Ozalid paper. b. From 30˚ to 44˚ South and 178˚ East to 176˚ West. Complex map including tracks, soundings, geology, and province information. Includes numerous inserts and colored pencil information.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 120˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ West to 90˚ East. Pencil sketch on the final first proof print of the Pacific Ocean.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 37˚ South and 140˚ East to 170˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 20˚ to 110˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Covers area North of Australia. Inked version.
a. Tracing paper b. no other information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil sketch.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South. Pencil sketch.
66 items
a. Positive print b. Project 10,000-828. U.S. Navy Index 1605N. February, March, May 1962. Sheet 10.
a. Negative print. b. Project 10,000-828. U.S. Navy Index 1905N & 2005N. March, May 1962. Sheet 13.
a. Negative print
a. Positive print
a. Linen b. Rolled item. a. Linen b. Rolled item.
a. Ozalid. b. From 19˚ to 19˚ 30" North and 178˚ to 178˚ 40" East. Covered by Chart No 3365. Pre- and post tsunami data.
a. Tracing paper. b. no other information. 5 Sheet A through E.
a. Tracing paper. b. Point Reyes A. 5 Sheet A through E.
a. Tracing paper. b. Point Reyes B. 6 Sheet A through F.
a. Tracing paper. b. Half Moon A. 5 Sheet A through E.
a. Tracing paper. b. Half Moon B. 6 Sheet A through F.
a. Positive print. b. From 61˚ 06’ North and 146˚ 30’ East. By the USGS, professional paper 69, plate XXVII. Shows breaks in cables by faulting, 14 February 1908.
a. Negative print. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ South and 177˚ to 179˚ East.
a. Negative print. b. From 0˚ to 27˚ South and 145˚ to 157˚ West. Half Moon to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 27˚ to 33˚ South and 133˚ to 146˚ West. Half Moon to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 33˚ to 37˚ South and 124˚ to 133˚ West. Half Moon to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 22˚ to 27˚ South and 149˚ to 157˚ West. Point Reyes to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 27˚ to 33˚ South and 136˚ to 149˚ West. Point Reyes to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 34˚ to 38˚ South and 123˚ to 136˚ West. Point Reyes to Oahu.
a. Negative print. b. From 31˚ to 38˚ South and 125˚ to 145˚ West. Point Arena to Oahu, North and South.
a. Negative print. b. From 22˚ to 30˚ South and 142˚ to 157˚ West. Point Arena to Oahu, North and South.
a. Positive print. b. From 12˚ to 16˚ North and 86˚ to 96˚ West. Shows original and repaired cables.
a. Negative print. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ South and 40˚ to 100˚ West.
a. Negative print. b. From 14˚ to 18˚ South and 70˚ to 78˚ West. Pisco to Arica. Shows original and repaired cables.
a. Negative print. b. From 12˚ to 16˚ North and 86˚ to 96˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 8˚ to 9˚ 30’ North and 83˚ to 84˚ 30’ West.
a. Linen. b. From 28˚ to 32˚ South and 70˚ to 74˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 15˚ North to 35˚ South and 70˚ to 95˚ West. Final publication graphic.
a. Linen. b. From 0˚ to 6˚ South and 79˚ to 83˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 14˚ to 19˚ South and 70˚ to 78˚ West. Shows original and repaired cable locations.
a. Linen. b. From 9˚ to 11˚ 15’ North and 84˚ 30’ to 86˚ 30’ West. Shows original and repaired cable locations, and cables repaired of the 5 October 1950 breaks.
a. Linen. b. From 6˚ to 14˚ South and 76˚ to 82˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 1˚ to 9˚ North and 77˚ to 83˚ West.
a. Linen. b. From 19˚ to 27˚ South and 69˚ to 74˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 4˚ 30’ to 4˚ South and 81˚ 15’ to 81˚ 25’ West.
a. Negative print mosaic. b. From 20˚ to 39˚ North and 122˚ to 161˚ West. Shows Point Reyes A and B routes, and Half Moon A and B routes.
a. Linen. b. From 12˚ to 16˚ North and 86˚ to 96˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ to 170˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ South and 177˚ to 179˚ East. From the 1953 Fiji Survey Report.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ 25’ to 21˚ 35’ North and 158˚ 10’ to 158˚ 20’ West. On the island of Oahu, laid by “long-lines” January 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 4˚ 30’ South and 144˚ 30’ to 146˚ 30’ East.
a. Paper. b. From 4˚ 30’ to 5˚ 30’ South and 145˚ 30’ to 146˚ 30’ East. December 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 1˚ 30’ South and 143˚ to 144˚ East. December 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 20˚ 30’ to 20˚ 50’ North and 156˚ 20’ to 157˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ 10’ to 21˚ 35’ North and 157˚ 40’ to 158˚ 20’ West.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 9˚ to 11˚ 20’ North and 84˚ 30’ to 86˚ 30’ West.
a. Ozalid Paper. b. From 15˚ to 32˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Tracks showing quality of soundings records.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ to 12˚ South and 146˚ to 156˚ East. Area 290 and 291, sheet 20, August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ 20’ to 12˚ South and 153˚ to 156˚ East. Pocklington Ridge, sheet 21, August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 8˚ 45’ to 10˚ 25’ South and 152˚ 50’ to 155˚ 30’ East. Solomon Sea, sheet number 23, August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ 45’ to 8˚ 50’ South and 151˚ 40’ to 154˚ 20’ East. Solomon Sea, Central Portion, sheet 26, August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 7˚ 30’ to 8˚ 20’ South and 149˚ to 152˚ East. Solomon Sea, Southern rim of New Brittan Trench, western part.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ 10’ to 8˚ South and 146˚ 50’ to 149˚ 30’ West. Solomon Sea – Huon Gulf, approaches to Lae.
a. Paper. b. From 6˚ 44’ to 16˚ 55’ South and 147˚ East. Approaches to Lae, sheet 27, 17 August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ 40’ to 6˚ 30’ South and 147˚ 30’ to 148˚ 30’ East. Sheet 30, August 1961.
a. Paper. b. From 11˚ to 12˚ 40’ North and 69˚ 40’ to 72˚ 20’ West. “Where is the MO: BN record? I think BCH still has them…Regarding Barrowquilla harbor shifting and cable breaks.”
a. Frosted acetate. b. Cable routes picked by H. Foster at commercial cable office. Rolled item.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 20˚ to 60˚ North and 120˚ to 160˚ West. Rolled item. Shows provinces and cables at a scale of 1:10,000,000.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From San Francisco to Oahu. Rolled item.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 19˚ South and 177˚ to 179˚ East. After BA2691. Shows contours, soundings, cables, and broken cables.
a. Paper. b. 14 January 1963.
a. Paper. b. no other information.
a. Paper. b. 14 January 1963.
a. Paper. b. Routes A and B. 14 January 1963.
a. Paper. b. 14 January 1963.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 22˚ North and 105˚ to 120˚ East.
10 items
a. Tracing paper b. From 20˚ to 69˚ South. 1:23,000,000
a. Tracing paper b. From 0˚ to 74˚ South and 110˚ East to 170˚ West. 1:23,000,000
a. Tracing paper b. From 0˚ to 70˚ South and 0˚ to 170˚ West. 1:23,000,000
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 80˚ South and 165˚ West to 20˚ East. 1:23,000,000 b. From 0˚ to 70˚ South and 0˚ to 170˚ West. 1:23,000,000
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 80˚ South and 50˚ East to 170˚ West. 1:23,000,000
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 65˚ South and 70˚ West to 115˚ East. Sheet 1 of 6
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 65˚ North and 75˚ West to 105˚ East. Covers the Northern Pacific, sheet 4 of 6.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 120˚ East to 155˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 30˚ South and 70˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Tracing paper b. From 30˚ to 72˚ South and 150˚ West to 120˚ East.
50 items
a. Negative print. b. From 60˚ North to 50˚ South and 50˚ West to 160˚ East. Print highlights the crest of the east Pacific rise and fracture zone. Historical document. Fig. 2.
a. Film negative b. From 49˚ to 51˚ North and 128˚ to 131˚ West. 1970. Fig. 2.
a. Film negative b. From 46˚ to 48˚ North and 129˚ to 131˚ West. Fig. 3.
a. Film negative b. From 27˚ to 29˚ North and 156˚ to 165˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 27˚ to 29˚ North and 156˚ to 165˚ West. Fig. 35.
a. Film negative b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 167˚ to 177˚ West. Fig. 12.
a. Film negative b. From 31˚ to 34˚ North and 127˚ to 139˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 26˚ to 29˚ North and 166˚ to 179˚ West. Fig. 36.
a. Film negative b. From 22˚ to 32˚ North and 150˚ to 170˚ West. Fig. 13.
a. Paper. b. From 48˚ to 54˚ South and 166˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Paper. b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 180˚ East. Published by G. R. Owen, Government Printer, Wellington, New Zealand.
a. Paper. b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 180˚ East. Published by G. R. Owen, Government Printer, Wellington, New Zealand.
a. Film negative b. From 40˚ to 55˚ North and 122˚ to 132˚ West. Compiled by D. A. McManus, Department of Oceanography, University of Washington, 1962.
a. Film negative b. From 5˚ South to 10˚ North and 75˚ to 95˚ West. Fig. 2. 1971.
a. Film negative b. From 5˚ South to 10˚ North and 75˚ to 95˚ West. Fig. 3. 1971. By Heath and Van Andel
a. Film negative b. From 5˚ South to 10˚ North and 75˚ to 95˚ West. Fig. 4. 1971
a. Film negative b. From 7˚ South to 13˚ North and 77˚ to 106˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 166˚ to 180˚ East. Fig. 14. 1966
a. Positive print b. From 45˚ to 50˚ South and 166˚ to 180˚ East. Fig. 14. 1966
a. Film negative b. From 39˚ to 53k North and 122˚ to 132˚ West.
a. Positive print b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 159˚ to 179˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 155˚ to 175˚ East.
a. Film positive b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 155˚ to 175˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 48˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 180˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 45˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 168˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 45˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 168˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 45˚ to 57˚ South and 158˚ to 168˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 160˚ to 175˚ East.
a. Positive print b. From 20˚ to 45˚ South and 160˚ to 175˚ East.
a. Paper. b. Reclassified from Restricted to Confidential. Published by the U.S. Navy Hydrographic Office, Washington, DC, 1952. 47 pp.
a. Linen b. Translation of legend of Udintsov by Feducawitz.
a. Positive print b. Five profiles shown.
a. Paper. b. Authored by Bruce C. Heezen and Daniel J. Fornari. Includes introduction, deep sea drilling, piston cores, magnetic anomalies, and seamount and oceanic island ages.
a. Paper. b. Authored by Bruce C. Heezen and Daniel J. Fornari. Includes sediment Isopachs for ocean and continental crusts, fracture zones in oceanic crust and faults on continental crust, physiographic studies, isobaths, earthquakes and active volcanoes, age of continental basement, and continental shelf and slope.
a. Paper. b. Fig. 66
a. Tracing paper b. Includes Vema 16-109, 110, 115 and 116 and Robert Conrad 8-61, 62, 64, 67, 69 and Robert Conrad 9-137, 139, 140, 141, 143 and 144.
a. Negative print. b. From 37˚ to 42˚ South and 166˚ to 181˚ East. Based on Seismic reflection profiles.
a. Negative print. b. From 37˚ to 44˚ South and 173˚ to 181˚ East.
a. Negative print.
a. Negative print.
a. Positive transparency. b. Figures 1 and Figures 2a and 2b. Figure 1: 20˚ to 40˚ North and 115˚ to 180˚ West. Figure 2a and b: 23˚ to 30˚ North and 155˚ to 174˚ West. Shows Bathymetric data and trends along the Murray Fracture Zone, North of the Hawaiian Islands.
a. Negative print. b. From 38˚ to 60˚ North and 125˚ to 179˚ West.
a. Positive print. b. From 5˚ to 30˚ North and 160˚ West to 160˚ East. Geologic Society of America, memoir 64, by Hamilton. Plate 10.
a. Positive transparency. b. Conic projection, from 30˚ to 90˚ South and 90˚ East to 120˚ West. Figure 66, 1964 –1965.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 44˚ South and 170˚ East to 175˚ West. Figure 1, by C. Munsart
a. Tracing paper. b. From 40˚ to 46˚ South and 170˚ to 178˚ East. Figure 2, by C. Munsart
a. Positive transparency b. October 1969.
a. Paper. b. Color-proof.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 5˚ to 20˚ North and 110˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Paper. b. 8 pages prepared by the HO office of Japan 1966. Includes geomorphological map of the division of the sea floor off the Japanese Islands.
130 items
a. Paper. b. Notes: "Initial Reports of the Deep Sea Drilling Project, Volume 30, Heezen and Fornari, Geological Map of the Pacific Ocean. Contains information on deep sea drilling and coring, continental and oceanic basement age, sediment thicknesses and continental shelf and slope."
a. Plastic b. Notes: "Contains information on deep sea drilling and coring, continental and oceanic basement age, sediment thicknesses and continental shelf and slope. Sheet 20."
a. Paper. b. Notes: "Contains information on deep sea drilling and coring, continental and oceanic basement age, sediment thicknesses and continental shelf and slope. Sheet 20."
a. Paper. b. South Pacific Ocean and Tasman Sea
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ North to 15˚ South and 80˚ to 155˚ East. National Earthquake Information Center 3009.
a. Paper. b. From 35˚ North to 5˚ South and 55˚ to 125˚ West. National Earthquake Information Center 3013.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ North and 105˚ to 160˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography Ref. No. 77-15.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 25˚ North and 105˚ to 160˚ West. Scripps Institute of Oceanography Ref. No. 77-16.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Map and chart series MC-25. Dennis Hayes and Brian Taylor.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Map and chart series MC-25. Jeffrey Weissel and Dennis Hayes
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Map and chart series MC-25. Dennis Hayes, Robert Houtz, Richard Jarrard, Cary Mrozowski, and Teruhiko Watanabe
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Map and chart series MC-25. Anthony Watts, John Bodine, and Carl Bowin
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ South to 45˚ North and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Map and chart series MC-25. Roger Anderson, Marcus Langseth, Dennis Hayes, Teruhiko Watanabe, Masashi Yasui
a. Paper. b. From 43˚ to 61˚ North and 135˚ to 158˚ East.
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-A.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-B.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-C.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-D.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-E.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-F.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-G.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-H.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 130˚ to 140˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-I.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-J.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-K.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 10˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-L.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-M.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-N.
a. Paper. b. From 3˚ to 17˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Miscellaneous Investigations Series Map I-1094-O.
a. Paper. b. Notes: "From 3˚ South to 62˚ North and 120˚ to 175˚ East. Compiled and printed in the Japanese Hydrographic Office, No. 6901. GSC Bulletin, Vol. 65, Dietz, Plate 1."
a. Paper. b. From 5˚ South to 54˚ North and 70˚ West to 100˚ East. No. 5486
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ South and 160˚ to 170˚ East. Chart No. 12 of 21.
a. Paper. b. From 11˚ 20' to 11˚ 40" North and 153˚ to 162˚ 25" East. Note: Based on boat sheets containing 180,000 soundings by U.S.S. Bowditch, 1944
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ to 45˚ South and 90˚ to 150˚ East. Work done at Scripps Oceanographic Institution. Map and chart series MC-17.
a. Paper. b. From 33˚ to 36˚ North and 120˚ to 124˚ West. Special paper number 31, chart II
a. Paper. b. From 36˚ to 39˚ North and 121˚ to 125˚ West. Special paper number 31, chart III
a. Paper. b. From 39˚ to 42˚ North and 122˚ to 126˚ West. Special paper number 31, chart IV
a. Paper. b. From 50˚ to 55˚ North and 170˚ to 175˚ East. Plate No. 1 (ATTU) of 6. ESSA Monograph 3 by Nichols and Perry.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ South to 30˚ North and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Primary contours highlighted in red.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ South to 30˚ North and 110˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Film negative
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. Shows major earthquake epicenters in the Southwest Pacific Ocean in red
a. Paper. b. Shows fracture zones and trends highlighted in red
a. Paper. b. H.O. Miscellaneous 15,254-6
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. Note: "the present, five million years ago, five million years in the future."
a. Paper. b. Sheet No. 9 of 12
a. Paper. b. Sheet 1 of 6. Contains 1:40, 000, 00 scale inset showing ship tracks.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 2 of 6.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 3 of 6. Contains 1:40, 000, 00 scale inset showing ship tracks.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 4 of 6. Contains 1:40, 000, 00 scale inset showing ship tracks. Includes profile from Asia to North America.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 5 of 6. Includes profile from Asia to North America.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 6 of 6. Includes profile from Asia to North America.
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Paper
a. Negative print. b. Soundings in fathoms at mean lower low water
a. Paper
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 85˚ to 97˚ East. Area 438 - Source sheet
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 85˚ to 97˚ East. Area 438 - Soundings in meters
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 97˚ to 109˚ East. Area 439 - Source sheet
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 97˚ to 109˚ East. Area 439 - Soundings in meters
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Area 440 - Source sheet
a. Paper. b. From 42˚ to 48˚ South and 109˚ to 121˚ East. Area 440 - Soundings in meters
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 24, 25, 42, 43, 44, and 45.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 24, 25, 42, 43, 44, and 45. Tracks shown in red and blue.
b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 24, 25, 42, 43, 44, and 45. Vema tracks shown in black.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 24, 43, 44 and 45.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Covers all or parts of zones 33, 39, 41, 42 and 46.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Covers all or parts of zones 33, 39, 41 and 46. Shows U.S. Navy Index numbers.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Covers all or parts of zones 33, 39, 41 and 46. Shows Vema tracks.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 120˚ to 150˚ East. Covers all or parts of zones 33, 39, 41 and 46. Shows Vema tracks in red and blue.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 16, 17, 41, 42 and 43.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 41 and 42. Shows Vema tracks.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 41 and 42. Shows Vema, Baird and Horizon tracks in red.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 41, 42, 43 and 46.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 41, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from U.S.S. Glacier and Armeb.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 41, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from U.S.S. Glacier and Vema in red.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 41, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from U.S.S. Glacier and Vema in red.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from U.S.S. Glacier in pencil.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from Eltanin, Vema, Horizon and Baird shown in red and black.
a. Ozalid. b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 50˚ to 150˚ West. Covers all or parts of zones 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 42 and 43. Shows tracks from Eltanin and Baird shown in pencil.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ South to 30˚ North and 60˚ to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 120˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ to 70˚ South and 60˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ North to 55˚ South and 80˚ to 150˚ East.
a. Film negative b. From 52˚ to 57˚ South and 69˚ to 75˚ West. H.O. 454. Soundings from the British and Chilean surveys from 1828 to 1924.
a. Film negative b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 160˚ West.
a. Film negative b. From 52˚ 10" to 57˚ South and 69˚ to 75˚ 30" West. Shows soundings and land contours. Chart No. H.O 454.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 24˚ South and 156˚ to 180˚ East. Published by the International Geological Congress. Sheet 8, First Ed. 1967, scale 1:5,000,000.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 24˚ South and 156˚ to 180˚ West. Published by the International Geological Congress. Sheet 9, First Ed. 1971, scale 1:5,000,000.
a. Paper. b. From 24˚ to 48˚ South and 156˚ East to 174˚ West. Published by the International Geological Congress. Sheet 13, First Ed. 1971, scale 1:5,000,000.
a. Paper. b. From 21˚ to 22˚ 40’ North and 158˚ to 160˚ 40’ West. Oahu to Niihau. CGS, sheet 4117. Also shows cable routes.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ 30’ to 22˚ 40’ North and 154˚ to 161˚ West. Hawaiian of Sandwich Islands. US CGS, sheet 1510. Also shows cable routes.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 160˚ East to 170˚ West. Scripps Institution, sheet 1 of 4, October 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ to 60˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institution, sheet 1 of 3.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. Scripps Institution, sheet 2 of 3, October 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 80˚ to 110˚ West. Scripps Institution, sheet 3 of 3.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 110˚ to 120˚ West. Topographic Chart no.1, prepared by US Bureau of Commercial Fisheries and the Univ. of California.
a. Paper. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 110˚ to 140˚ West. By Chase, Menard, and Mammerickx, October 1969. Chart 9 of 10.
a. Paper. b. From 44˚ to 54˚ North and 121˚ to 136˚ West. Published by Scripps Institution. Mammerickx and Taylor, 1971.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 49˚ North and 115˚ to 150˚ West. Covers the standard Navy Ocean Area – Region 9. Plate 3, with a small track paper overlay.
a. Paper. b. From 1˚ South to 12˚ 30’ North and 103˚ to 112˚ East. Published by the British Admiralty, 1953. Sheet 2660A.
a. Paper. b. From 1˚ to 12˚ North and 111˚ to 120˚ East. Published by the British Admiralty, 1957. Sheet 2660B.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ to 23˚ North and 106˚ to 115˚ East. Published by the British Admiralty, 1964. Sheet 2661A.
a. Paper. b. From 12˚ to 24˚ North and 114˚ to 122˚ East. Published by the British Admiralty, 1961. Sheet 2661B.
a. Paper. b. From 16˚ to 20˚ South and 176˚ East to 177˚ West. Published by the Navy HO, June 1921. Includes pencil contours.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 35˚ North and 150˚ to 180˚ East. Chart no.6304, published in Tokyo by the Maritime Safety, February 1968.
a. Paper. b. From 32˚ to 34˚ North and 115˚ to 117˚ West. American Society of Petroleum Geologists memoir 3, chart I. By Biehler, Kovach, and Allen.
a. Paper. b. Navy HO Office Chart 0873, August 1946.
a. Paper. b. From 36˚ to 38˚ North and 121˚ to 124˚ West. USCGS, chart 5402.
a. Paper. b. From 15˚ to 70˚ South and 105˚ West to 165˚ East. US Navy HO, chart 15254-10. Sheet 10 of 12.
a. Paper. b. From 22˚ to 24˚ North and 109˚ to 110˚ West. US Navy HO, chart 1662.
a. Paper. b. From 25˚ to 33˚ North and 109˚ to 117˚ West. Data from 11 cruises from 1939 to 1962.
a. Paper. b. From 25˚ to 31˚ North and 109˚ to 117˚ West. Scripps chart I, 1964.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 27˚ North and 104˚ to 112˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 18˚ to 27˚ North and 104˚ to 112˚ West. Scripps chart I.
a. Paper. b. From 28˚ North to 20˚ South and 95˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 0˚ to 47˚ South and 105˚ to 180˚ East. Russian chart showing land data and selected soundings.
12 items
a. Tracing paper b. From 19˚ 30" to 19˚ 42" North and 154˚ 42" to 154˚ 50" West.
a. Tracing paper b. From 19˚ 41" to 19˚ 50" North and 154˚ 30" to 154˚ 50" West.
a. Tracing paper b. From 19˚ 30" to 19˚ 50" North and 154˚ 50" to 155˚ 10" West. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 18˚ 54" to 19˚ 06" North and 153˚ 42" to 154˚ West. Sheet #1. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 18˚ 50" to 19˚ 02" North and 155˚ 08" to 155˚ 24" West. Sheet #2. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 19˚ 02" to 19˚ 14" North and 155˚ 08" to 155˚ 26" West. Sheet #3. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 18˚ 46" to 18˚ 56" North and 155˚ 32" to 155˚ 50" West. Sheet #4. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 19˚ 12" to 19˚ 24" North and 157˚ 02" to 157˚ 20" West. Sheet #5. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 18˚ 40" to 18˚ 52" North and 156˚ 56" to 157˚ 12" West. Sheet #6. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 19˚ 16" to 19˚ 52" North and 156˚ 52" to 157˚ 08" West. Sheet #7. 1:30,000
a. Frosted acetate b. From 18˚ 31" to 18˚ 41" North and 156˚ 56" to 157˚ 12" West. Sheet #8. 1:30,000
a. Paper. b. Computer print of statistical data – inventory data.
22 items
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ 45' to 24˚ 50' North and 178˚ to 179˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 18zzzk to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1604N. Leg VI, 11 June 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Covers 1704N. Leg 6, 15 June 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 19˚ to 25˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Covers 1804N and 1805. Leg 6, 15 June 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2204N. Leg 6, 12 July 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2203N.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 25˚ South to 35˚ North and 120˚ East to 150˚ West. June, July and August 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 150˚ to 161˚ East. Covers 2006N and 2106N.
a. Ozalid. b. From 0˚ to 40˚ North and 140˚ East to 160˚ West. Scan Leg III. May.
a. Paper. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 110˚ East to 150˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 10˚ South to 60˚ North and 165˚ East to 95˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. From 15˚ to 70˚ South and 165˚ East to 95˚ West.
a. Paper. b. From 40˚ South to 30˚ North and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. "Approx 4200 nauts 32 days, requires 130 miles/day progress toward Tokyo."
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 168˚ to 170˚ West. Leg 6, 11-13 June 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 160˚ to 180˚ West. Leg 6, 13-17 June 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 177˚ to 179˚ West. Leg 6, 17 June 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 172˚ East to 178˚ West. Leg 6, 20-26 June 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 156˚ to 166˚ East. Leg 6, 26 June - 1 July 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 149˚ to 153˚ East. Leg 6, 4-8 July 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 142˚ to 150˚ East. Leg 6, 8-12 July 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 140˚ to 145˚ East. Leg 6, 12 July 1969.
a. Paper. b. From 29˚ to 36˚ North and 146˚ to 156˚ East.
15 items
a. Film negative. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. U.S. Department of the Interior, Ocean Mining Administration. MA- 1304N. Scale: 1:1,000,000.
a. Positive print. b. From 17˚ to 23˚ North and 120˚ to 130˚ West. U.S. Department of the Interior, Ocean Mining Administration. MA- 1304N, Scale: 1:1,000,000.
a. Ozalid. b. U.S. Department of the Interior, Ocean Mining Administration. MA-1304N. Scale: 1:1,000,000.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 2.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 3.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 24˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet 4.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Sheet 5.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 18˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ East. Sheet 6.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2206N.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East. Covers 2206N. Magnetics.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 23˚ North and 150˚ to 160˚ West. Covers 1604N. 11 June 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 17˚ to 22˚ North and 160˚ to 170˚ West. Covers 1704N. 11-15 June 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 18˚ to 25˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ West. Covers 1804N and 1805N. 15 June 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 24˚ to 30˚ North and 170˚ to 180˚ East. Covers 1905N. 22-25 June 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 10˚ to 17˚ North and 140˚ to 150˚ East.
34 items
a. Ozalid. b. Vema 34-01. From 22 February to 20 March 1977. Reduced paper copy.
a. Ozalid. b. Apra, Guam. Vema 34-02. 25 March 1977. Reduced paper copy.
a. Ozalid. b. Vema 18, 1154-1176. 5-8 August 1962. Reduced paper copy.
a. Ozalid. b. Vema 18, 1179-1196. 8-10 August 1962. Reduced paper copy.
a. Ozalid. b. Vema 18, 1756-1768. 1-3 December 1962. Reduced paper copy.
a. Ozalid. b. Vema 18, 1770-1781. 3-5 December 1962. Reduced paper copy.
a. Positive print. b. 14-20 July 1968. Strip #14.
a. Positive print. b. 12-14 September 1968. Strip #10.
a. Positive print. b. 16 September - 2 October 1968. Strip #13.
a. Positive print. b. July 1968.
a. Positive print. b. Air Gun Record #1, 11-13 June 1969.
a. Film negative. b. Air Gun Record #1, 13-15 June 1969.
a. Positive print. b. Air Gun Record #2, 15-16 June 1969.
a. Film Negative. b. Air Gun Record #3, 16-23 June 1969.
a. Positive print. b. Air Gun Record #3, 20-23 June 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 24 June 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 25-26 June 1969.
a. Film Negative. b. Air Gun Record #4, 26 June 1969.
a. Positive print. b. End A.G.R. Roll #7, 4-8 July 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 11 July 1969.
a. Film negative (A) and positive print (B). b. Air Gun Record #8, 10-13 July 1969.
a. Film negatives. b. Air Gun Record #9, 16-17 July 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 21 July 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 23 July 1969.
a. Film negative. b. 28 July 1969.
a. Film negative. b. Air Gun Record #14, 3 August 1969.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 35˚ to 37˚ North Argo and Challenger records. 23-25 May.
a. Theromfax paper. b. From 9˚ to 14˚ North and 144˚ to 152˚ East.
a. Theromfax paper. b. At 11˚ 7' North and 148˚ 30' East. "This is the best I can do. The upper transparency layer looks pretty clear."
a. Ozalid. b. Cruise Number 124, 20 March 1972.
a. Ozalid. b. Cruise Number 124, 28 March 1972.
a. Graph paper. b. From 9˚ 12' to 20˚ 55' North and 142˚ 52' East to 160˚ West. Near Guam. Original record, 11 June to 5 August 1969.
a. Graph paper. b. From 6˚ 2' to 34˚ 54' North and 139˚ 40' to 162˚ 17' East. Original record, 17 September to 30 October 1971.
a. Graph paper. b. From 20˚ 45' to 34˚ 48' North and 140˚ 8' to 158˚ West. Original record, 1971. "It was unusual for Heezen to go on a Scripps vessel but here he was making a site survey for the Glomar Challenger."
12 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Water depths and Tertiary and Cretaceous layers. Final publishing form.
a. Positive print. b. Water depths and Tertiary and Cretaceous layers. Published graphic.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Final publishing form. "Heezen gathered these cores together for legs on the Glomar Challenger."
a. Positive print. b. Printed version of 3A&B.
a. Paper. b. From the Shatsky Plateau to Marianas Trench.
a. Positive print. b. From Eniwetok to Canary Basin.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 7˚ to 14˚ North and 142˚ to 148˚ East. 21 July to 2 August 1969.
a. Graph paper. b. Glomar Challenger Leg VI Site 57, 27 July 1969.
a. Graph paper. b. Glomar Challenger Leg VI Site 54, 17 July 1969.
a. Ozalid. b. Glomar Challenger Leg VI Sites 44-60.
a. Ozalid. b. From 6˚ to 7˚ North and 84˚ 30' to 85˚ West. Glomar Challenger Site 158. Includes detailed contours.
a. Ozalid. b. From 31˚ to 34˚ North and156˚ to 161˚ East. Shatsky Rise. Glomar Challenger Sites 13 and 14, 27 May to 2 June. Sites for cores, camera lowering and heat flow.
3 items
a. Ozalid. b. From 4˚ South to 23˚ North and 80˚ to 160˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. World Navy Index Map with Glomar Challenger areas highlighted.
a. Paper. b. World Navy Index Map with Glomar Challenger areas highlighted.
7 items
a. Film negative. b. Scale: 1:2,500,000. 7 January 1977.
a. Positive print. b. Scale: 1:2,500,000. 7 January 1977.
a. Ozalid. b. Enlargement of A0001 & A0002, 7 January 1977.
a. Ozalid. b. At 29˚ North and from 159˚ to 161˚ East. Glomar Leg 20, soundings from Thomas Washington, 7 August 1971.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 27˚ North and 178˚ West to 176˚ East. Pencil copy.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 29˚ to 35˚ North. Covers the Shatsky Rise. Pencil copy.
12 items
a. Positive print. b. From 29˚ to 32˚ North and 147˚ to 148˚ East. Tracks.
a. Positive print. b. From 29˚ to 31˚ North and 148˚ to 150˚ East. Tracks, 29 September 1971.
a. Positive print. b. From 30˚ to 31˚ North and 146˚ to 150˚ East. Soundings.
a. Positive print. b. From 146˚ to 150˚ East. Soundings.
a. Positive print. b. From 146˚ to 150˚ East. Select Soundings, 7 September 1971.
a. Positive print. b. From 146˚ to 150˚ East. Select Soundings.
a. Tracing paper. b. Intersection of rift valley and equator. Pencil copy.
a. Paper. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 60˚ West to 120˚ East. Master sheet of numbered fracture segments.
a. Paper. b. Covers Pacific Ocean, cores plotted on Pacific Ocean Floor Map. Some include column data.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 20˚ to 40˚ North near Midway. Colored pencil copy.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 23˚ to 30˚ North and 170˚ to 179˚ East. Pencil copy.
a. Paper. b. From 30˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 150˚ West. Plotted on Physiographic Map of the Western Pacific Ocean. Some color-coded data.
3 items
a. Negative print. b. Covers area from equator north. Ready for publication.
a. Positive print. b. Covers area from equator north. Ready for publication.
a. Paper. b. Covers cores 44-60, water depths for sites 44-51 and A0001 map.
2 items
a. Negative prints. b. According to Marie Tharp, this could be data showing the depth of the bedrock related to the Glomar Challenger cruises. Strip of frames 1158-1171.
a. Negative prints. b. According to Marie Tharp, this could be data showing the depth of the bedrock related to the Glomar Challenger cruises.
10 items
a. Paper. b. Key to map symbols. Cut from larger map.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Key to map symbols.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other identification information.
a. Paper. b. From 60˚ North to 10˚ South and 80˚ West to 120˚ East. Shows geologic ages and thicknesses in meters.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 40˚ West to 40˚ East. Piston cores and dredges.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 40˚ West to 40˚ East. Color-coded and annotated version of B0005.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Color-coded cores. Marked obsolete.
a. Red negative transparency. b. Publication master.
a. Ozalid. b. Colored version.
a. Ozalid. b. Black-and-white.
11 items
a. Paper. b. Colored blocks plotted on National Geographic Society Pacific Ocean Floor map, October 1969.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil and ink. Draft.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Ink with pencil annotations. Draft.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 40˚ East to 40˚ West. Color- coded with key.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 40˚ East to 40˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Sea of Japan, deep focus.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil and ink. Includes key.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Marked Final. Pencil version.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 70˚ East to 40˚ West. Color- coded by geologic age
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 90˚ East to 110˚ West. Also includes some reefs and atolls.
a. Ozalid. b. Identifies sources of boundary plate data.
2 items
a. Ozafoil b. Red separation.
a. Ozalid. b. World-wide. Also has geologic blocks drawn in red.
3 items
a. Tracing paper. b. From 70˚ to 180˚ East. Covers the Macquarie Ridge Complex. Hand-colored. From Weissel and Hayes, 1972.
a. Tracing paper. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 110˚ East to 40˚ West. Clean inked version.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 60˚ North to 60˚ South and 120˚ East to 70˚ West. Pencil and ink.
3 items
a. Paper. b. Colored copy of base map showing new bathymetry and suggested corrections for final copy.
a. Paper. b. Shows work and printing instructions on collar.
a. Ozafoil b. Copy of final base map.
4 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Inked version, sheet #4.
a. Ozafoil. b. Blue Mylar version of B0001.
a. Paper. b. Hand-colored Pacific contours with edit instructions.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Blue plate.
13 items
a. Tracing paper. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 90˚ East to 90˚ West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other identification information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other identification information.
a. Ozalid. b. From 40˚ North to 40˚ South and 80˚ East to 40˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. Color-coded version.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other identification information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. No other identification information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Mostly pencil. No other identification information.
a. Frosted acetate. b. At 39˚ 40' South and 175˚ 30' West.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Includes a yellow lined- paper overlay that is taped on with masking tape.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil copy.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil copy to be scribed.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pacific map correction sheet for faults. Pencil copy.
1 item
a. Paper print. b. Photograph of diving submersible.
5 items
a. Mylar. b. Symbols overlay for published map. No other information.
a. Tracing paper. b. Hand lettered with pencil. Shows Island Groups, Fracture Zones, Ridges and Seamount Chains. Sheet # 12-Grey.
a. Tracing paper. b. Hand lettered with pencil. Sheet # 13-Black.
a. Ozafoil. b. Series of numbered parallel lines.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Series of final numbers. Sheet #5-Gray.
6 items
a. Paper. b. Y-0, 10, 25, 45, 70, and Y- 100.
a. Paper. b. Published by National Geographic in October 1969. Map is based on Heezen and Tharp data and painted by Heinrich Berann
a. Frosted acetate. b. Black plate for Geologic Map of the Pacific.
a. Paper. b. Printing proof of black plate for Geologic Map of the Pacific. Item B0003.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Black-and-white copy of final map. Items B0003 and 0004.
a. Cromalin paper. b. Hand-colored version of final map. Items B0003, 0004, and 0005.
Groups 43 - 45
10 boxes; estimated 500 items
5 boxes; estimated 250
4 boxes; estimated 200 items
Consists of some 370 items related to Heezen and Tharp's mapping of the Arctic Ocean floor.
Group 01
4 items
a. Film negative. b. 60˚ - 81˚ N to 60˚ W - 60˚ E. Notes: "Unknown cruise. Three-digit numbers must be station numbers. Two-digit numbers must be other stations. Unknown units."
a. Film negative. b. 60˚ - 81˚ N to 60˚ W - 60˚ E. Notes: "Unknown cruise. Three-digit numbers must be station numbers. Two-digit numbers must be other stations. Unknown units."
a. Film positive. b. 60˚ - 81˚ N to 60˚ W - 60˚ E.
a. Film negative. b. 60˚ North to 81˚ North and 60˚ West to 60˚ East.
Groups 02 - 23
18 items
a. Paper. b. Computer plot of ship tracks between -20˚ to -45˚ and +170˚ to -155˚.
a. Film positive. Rolled item. b. 64˚ - 84˚ N to 75˚ W - 60˚ E. Includes track data from VEMA Cruises #23, 27, 28, 29.
a. Film negative. b. Data for VEMA Cruises #21, 23, 27, 28.
a. Tracing paper. b. Pencil sketch used in Nature Magazine, volume 215, #5102, page 724. Full polar projection. Notes: "1st and 2d profiles plotted backwards. 1st profile in wrong spot - #3, #4, 5, #6 OK. Don't use #7."
a. Frosted acetate. b. Colored pencil plot.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Notes: "Copy of Beal sub-soundings plotted by AGS. Has errors. See new corrected sheet. Jun 14, '74. Ed and John Beal's thesis."
a. Paper. b. East.˚ West to 60˚ North and 60˚ to 81˚ From 60 Map 4.
a. Positive print. b. 20’˚ 30’ to 158˚ North and 154˚ 20’ to 73˚ From 72 West. Covers 1116 North
a. Paper. b. West.˚ East to 45˚ North and 45˚ to 75˚ From 63 Color-coded, Map 4. 13 January 1976.
a. Ozalid paper. b. West.˚ East to 75˚ North and 60˚ to 84˚ From 63
a. Ozalid paper. b. East.˚ to 105˚ North and 50˚ to 84˚ From 63 Data for VEMA 23, Map 4.
a. Ozalid paper. b. East.˚ West to 60˚ North and 60˚ to 81˚ From 60 Includes Navy Index numbers and Matthews numbers.
a. Ozalid. b. Polar projection of hand plotted values taken from the GEBCO charts.
a. Ozalid.
a. Positive transparency.
a. Positive print. b. West.˚ to 157˚ North and 150˚ to 74˚ From 70 Off Point Barrow Alaska.
a. Ozalid paper. b. West(?).˚ to 112˚ North and 106˚ to 10˚ From 5 Covers 2602 North.
a. Ozalid paper. b. East.˚ to 20˚ North and 10˚ to 76˚ From 74 1030 – 3144 Soundings, 26 June 1974.
7 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Sheet 1. Pencil plot of data from Russian maps at scales of 1:2,500,000 and 1:250,000. AGS.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pen and colored pencil plots. Note: "Errors on this sheet - 6/12/74."
a. Frosted acetate. b. Notes: "Beal thesis. Compilation by AGS. Marked incorrect."
a. Ozalid. b. Note: "This sheet is a paper Ozalid of the negative. It looks like the original was part of a Russian chart. It appears to me that the soundings that are not in parenthesis are soundings that are fathoms written over the printed depths in meters. Written by Oscar Bradley Eckoff, 8 February 1972." Printed on British Admiralty Chart 2116N.
a. Frosted acetate. b. 69˚ 30' and 90˚ to 91˚ West. Tracks and selected soundings around Peter I Island.
a. Positive print. b. West.˚ to 100˚ North and 90˚ to 17˚ From 10 Covers 1003 North.
a. Positive print. b. West.˚ to 100˚ North and 90˚ to 17˚ From 10 Covers 1003 North.
9 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil diagram with depths and coordinate locations.
a. Linen. b. Covers Grand Banks and Chukchi Shelf.
c. Linen. d. Covers Marvin Ridge, Lomonosov Ridge, and Walvis Ridge.
a. Positive print. b. Five profiles, taken in 1948.
a. Linen. b. Five profiles, taken in 1948. Original inked graphic.
a. Negative print, composite. b. Profiles, A-A’, B-B’, C-C’
a. Positive print. b. 29’ to ˚ 53’ North and 160˚ 30’ to 77˚ From 77 33’ West.˚ 173
a. Negative print. b. Based on soundings from the SSN Nautilus. Figure 1.
a. Positive print. b. Based on soundings from the SSN Nautilus. Figure 1.
9 items
a. Ozalid. b. Base map. 63˚ to 84˚ North and 95˚ West to 165˚ East. Does not contain any plotted data.
a. Ozalid. b. VEMA Data plotted in vicinity of Greenland, 63˚ to 84˚ North and 5˚ East to 95˚ West.
a. Ozalid. b. VEMA data plotted in the vicinity of Novaya Zemlya. 63˚ to 84˚ North and 5˚ to 105˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. VEMA cruises #23, #27, #28, and #30. Pencil annotations indicate core materials. 63˚ to 84˚ North and 5˚ to 105˚ East.
a. Positive transparency. b. ˚ West to 60˚ North and 30˚ to 90˚ From 74 East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. ˚ to 165˚ North and 65˚ to 84˚ From 65 East.
a. Ozalid paper. b. ˚ to 165˚ North and 105˚ to 84˚ From 63 West.
a. Ozalid paper. b. ˚ to 90˚ North and 0˚ to 84˚ From 63 West. Date from VEMA 23, 27-30.
a. Ozalid paper. b. ˚ to 105˚ North and 15˚ to 84˚ From 63 East. Date from VEMA 23, 27, 28, 30.
5 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil. Quadrant I.
a. Paper. b. Compiled by Paul D. Lowman Jr, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, 1980
a. Paper. b. Color computer print. Polar projection.
a. Frosted Acetate. b. to˚ East and West, and 90˚ to 180˚ From 0 North.˚ 90
a. Graph paper. b. Lithology of deep sea sediments.
13 items
a. Ozalid. b. Lambert equal area projection. Twelve inset maps showing magnitude and hypo central locations or depth-of-focus in kilometers.
a. Ozalid. b. Modified - stereographic conformal projection. Eleven inset maps showing magnitude and hypo central location or depth-of-focus in kilometers.
a. Paper. b. Polar projection. Coast and Geodetic Center epicenters plotted.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil and ink plot of probable epicenters. Note: "Look for others on shelf"
a. Film negative. b. EPB Publication, Vol. 45, No. 4, Plate 2, 1:7,500,000
a. Ozalid and graph paper. b. Four profiles covering the Barents Shelf, Boyd Bank, and off Spitsbergen.
a. Negative print. b. North.˚ to 90˚ East/West and 90˚ to 180˚ From 0 Polar projection. Shows earthquake locations and magnitudes.
a. Negative print. b. Polar projection. Shows earthquake locations and magnitudes. Final publication graphic.
a. Negative print. b. Polar projection.
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection.
a. Ozalid paper. b. Polar projection. Shows earthquake locations and magnitudes – mostly for USSR.
a. Negative print. b. Polar projection.
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection.
1 items
a. Negative print. b. North polar projection. Includes N. American, Indian, and European data.
3 items
c. Positive print. d. West.˚ to 18˚ North and 0˚ to 65˚ From 61
a. Negative print. b. West.˚ to 40˚ North and 20˚ to 68˚ From 64
a. Negative print. b. Shows percent difference from modern wood.
5 items
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil drawing of contours and blue pencil plot of map coverage. Descriptive index for eight U.S. and U.S.S.R. maps.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Ink drawing of contours and blue pencil plot of map coverage. Descriptive index for twelve U.S. and U.S.S.R. maps.
a. Tracing paper b. Pencil and ink contours
a. Tracing paper b. Pen and ink contours
a. Tracing paper b. ˚ to 360˚ North and 0˚ to 60˚ From 52 Key to map extension land only.
43 items
0001 Color coded track map. 0002 Color coded soundings. 0003 Soundings map. 0004 Plotting sheet. 20 July 1964.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Norway Abyssal Plain and Parts of Dumshaf Abyssal Plain a. Frosted acetate. b. Notes: "64˚ to 69˚ North and 9˚ West to 6˚ East. February 12, 1976." 0002 Tracks and contours (1 of 2). 0003 Province map. 0004 Matthews areas.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings and select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Tracks on Provinces a. Frosted acetate. b. Colored shading. Note: "Jan Mayer to Fz Ridge." 0002 Preliminary Contours a. Tracing paper. b. Includes tracks and earthquake plots. 0003 Tracks on Provinces a. Tracing paper. b. Preliminary province worksheet including tracks. 0004 Earthquake Tracks a. Tracing paper. b. Colored pencil plot of earthquakes and tracks. Includes selected soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded track. 0002 Soundings.
0001 Color-coded track.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Color-coded tracks. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Color-coded select soundings. 0007 Color-coded select soundings. 0008 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Color-coded soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Tracks (British) 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 0006 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Earthquakes and tracks on Matthew’s areas. 0002 Soundings. 0003 Tracks and province map.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Color-coded tracks. 0003 Color-coded tracks. Classification notice. 0004 Tracks. Collection sheet 10 November 1977. 0005 Tracks. 0006 Select soundings. Classification notice. 0007 Color-coded tracks. Collection sheet 3 Aug. 1973. 0008 Color-coded select-soundings. 0009 Earthquakes. Classification notice.
0001 Contours.
0001 Color-coded select soundings. 0002 Tracks. 0003 Tracks and Soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 3 August 1973. 0003 Soundings. 0004 Soundings. December 1977.
0001 Soundings. 3 August 1973.
0001 Color-coded track. 0002 Select soundings. 3 August 1973.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings (corrections to 0001). 0003 Color-coded soundings. Collected 11 January 1956. 0004 Color-coded soundings. Collected 11 January 1956.
0001 Color-coded tracks. Erika Dan 4
0001 Soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings.
0001 Color-coded select soundings, 3 Aug 1973. 0002 Soundings. Erika Dan 4. 0003 Color-coded select soundings.
0001 Select Soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0002 Color-coded soundings. 0003 Select soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0004 Select soundings. Classification notation. 0005 Color-coded tracks. 3 Aug. 1973.
0001 Select Soundings. June 1961.
0001 Select Soundings. 0002 Select Soundings. 0003 Select Soundings.
0001 Tracks.
0001 Select soundings. April 1961. 0002 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. June 1959. 0002 Soundings.
0001 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Soundings with corrections.
0001 Soundings.
0001 Tracks. 0002 Tracks. 0003 Tracks.
0001 Track. 0002 Track. 0003 Track. 0004 Color-coded tracks. May 1963 andFeb. 1964. 0005 Color-coded soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0006 Color-coded tracks. 26 June 1973. 0007 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 0008 Color-coded tracks. 0009 Color-coded tracks. 0010 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 3 Aug. 1973 0011 Soundings. May 1963. 0012 Soundings. May 1963.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0002 Color-coded tracks. 0003 Tracks. 0004 Color-coded soundings. 0005 Soundings. 0006 Soundings and contours. 0007 Color-coded tracks. 0008 Computer-plotted soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0009 Soundings. March 1964. 0010 Tracks for the IGY. 0011 Tracks. 21 April 1964.
0001 Color-coded tracks. 3 Aug. 1973. 0002 Color-coded tracks. 0003 Color-coded soundings and contours. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Tracks. 0006 Color-coded tracks and soundings. 3 Aug. 1973. 0007 Select soundings.
0001 Soundings. 0002 Tracks. 26 June 1974. 0003 Soundings. 26 June 1974. 0004 Tracks. 26 June 1974. 0005 Select soundings. 0006 Tracks and Soundings.
0001 Select soundings. 0002 Color-coded soundings. Computer plotted, on frosted acetate. 0003 Select soundings. 0004 Soundings. 0005 Tracks. 0006 Soundings. 0007 Contours and Soundings. 26 June 1974. 0008 Tracks.
0001 Color-coded soundings. 0002 Color-coded tracks. 0003 Color-coded soundings.
3 items
a. Film positive. b. Polar projection.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Polar projection.
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection. Figure 13, 1954.
20 items
a. Ozalid. b. From American Geographical Society, 1975. Polar stereographic. Depths in meters.
a. Ozalid. b. One centimeter equals 20 km.
a. Ozalid. b. "For Miss M. Tharp."
a. Ozalid. b. Un-annotated base map covering Alaskan coast showing drainage and contours on the land and bathymetry.
a. Plastic b. Hand colored land mass including Arctic Ocean contours.
a. Ozalid. b. Un-annotated base map covering Quadrants I, II, III, and IV showing drainage and contours on the land and bathymetry.
Sheet 1.
Sheet 2.
Sheet 3.
Sheet 4.
Assumed sound velocity - 1500 meters per second. 4 inches equals 1˚ longitude. Contour interval - 200 meters (uncorrected). Arctic Acoustic Project, Gibbs Survey Area, 1971.
a. Ozalid. b. Project 71-01-07, U.S. Navy Ship J.W. Gibbs. 76˚ 30 ' to 77˚ 40" North and 4˚ 30' to 8˚ 30' East. Notes: "Contour interval equals 100 meters. Mercator projection. Control-NAVSAT and LORAN 'C'. Depth in meters. Art Molloy."
a. Film negative.
a. Ozalid. b. Includes feature names and elevations. Note: "John Hall's thesis, 1970."
a. Ozalid. b. Includes feature names and elevations. Note: "John Hall's thesis, 1970."
a. Ozalid. b. Notes: "Ed is doing this. AGS has contours for here. New contours are violet."
a. Linen. b. Polar projection.
a. Positive transparency. b. Polar projection.
a. Positive transparency. b. Polar projection.
a. Paper. b. Polar projection. One quarter of the polar series.
1 item
a. Paper. b. Oblique Polar projection, with color- coded annotations.
2 items
a. Negative print b. Polar projection. Final graphic.
a. Negative print. b. Partial Polar projection. Based largely on Soviet data. Epicenters determined during the 1959 geophysical year.
29 items
a. Paper. b. Worksheet. Colored pencil and pencil notations on Quadrants I, II, III, and IV. Contains status information for each quadrant.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil copy of selected soundings for Arctic Sheet II.
a. Tracing paper. b. Worksheet with contours at 100, 200, 500, and 1000 meters. Pencil and ink. Covers Arctic Quadrant III.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Colored pencil sketch on polar projection showing continental shelf and suspected continental shelf.
a. Frosted acetate. b. From 74˚ to 80˚ North and from 5˚ to 12˚ East.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Location unknown.
a. Ozalid. b. Hand colored. Preliminary worksheet.
a. Ozalid. b. Hand colored. Completed worksheet.
a. Ozalid.
a. Ozalid. b. Completed worksheet. Note: "Added 10 and 100 meter contours 15 July 1974 by M. Casslar."
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil sketch showing contours in corrected meters.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Oversized, pencil sketch. Note: "Don't color."
a. Ozalid copy.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil. Large scale.
a. Ozalid. b. Colored pencil with color-coded legend showing depths from 0 to 8000.
a. Ozalid. b. Hand colored.
a. Ozalid. b. Final worksheet.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pen and colored pencil.
a. Tracing paper. b. Location: 68˚ to 72˚ North and 0˚ to 9˚ East.
a. Ozalid. b. Includes legend for symbols and annotations as well as soundings and contours.
a. Ozalid.
a. Tracing paper. b. Pencil sketches. Notes: "Leave channels on this sheet. Also make sure that abyssal plain boundaries are not dotted. Hank Kutschale's chart and John Hall's chart. No Trespassing. Stay Out!"
a. Ozalid. b. Shading with colored pencil. Includes feature names and list of source maps. Note: " Quadrant III, contours copied and checked 6/26/74."
a. Ozalid. b. Shading with colored pencil.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Pencil plot.
a. Ozalid. b. Include selected soundings and colored pencil annotations.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Notes: "Done by Ed Agurkis. June 28, 1974."
a. Tracing paper b. From 60˚ to 65˚ North and 22˚ to 30˚ East.
a. Tracing paper b. Color-coded contours on a polar projection.
5 items
a. Photograph b. Black and white photograph of artist rendition of Arctic Ocean. See HT II I 3 0017. Note: "Received 3 Dec 70."
a. Film negative. b. Lomonosov Ridge and vicinity.
a. Film positive. b. Black and white photograph of artist rendition of Arctic Ocean.
a. Film positive. b. 8 1/2 inch x 11 inch black and white photograph of Arctic Ocean.
a. Film positive. b. 24 inch x 30 inch black and white photograph of Arctic Ocean.
2 items
30 items
a. Paper. b. Black circles indicate earthquake epicenters, page 756. Note: "Bill: Here's one of the items Bruce mentioned. Leo B."
a. Frosted acetate with grid. b. Profile from Point Barrow, Alaska across the North Pole to the Greenland- Spitsbergen Straits. Depths - 0 to 3000 fathoms.
a. Ozalid. b. Cutaway views of physiography and sub- surface sedimentary and basement sections of the Bering Shelf.
a. Paper print. b. Polar projection. Coast and Geodetic Center epicenters plotted.
a. Film negative. b. Notes: " Please just use circled earthquakes. All of these are shallow focus earthquakes."
a. Film positive. b. Notes: " Please just use circled earthquakes. All of these are shallow focus earthquakes."
a. Frosted acetate. b. Preliminary sketch. Note: "This one wrong way."
a. Film negative.
a. Paper. b. Figure 11.
a. Paper. b. Part 1 - The Oceans by G. Leonard Johnson and Marie Tharp. Part 2 - Description and Interpretation of Salient Geologic Features of the Arctic by Michael Churkin Jr.
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection, showing data for 1937, 1941, 1948 – 1950, and 1954 – 1958. By A.F. Laktionov.
a. Paper. b. Plate 2 three dimensional fence model of depth soundings in the Arctic Basin. Page 27.
a. Paper. b. Figure 2, locations of the echograms used in the study. Page 19.
a. Paper. b. Figure 8, the Lena Trough. Page 60.
a. Paper. b. Figure 9a, the Arctic Rises, page 77.
a. Paper. b. Figure 9b, Chukchi shelf.
a. Paper. b. Arctic Mid-Ocean Ridge.
a. Paper. b. The Lomonsov Ridge.
a. Paper. b. Continental Slope and Continental Rise.
a. Paper. b. The Alpha Rise.
a. Paper. b. Summary of Geophysical data.
a. Paper. b. Figure 18, Track of the Nautilus 1957 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Figure 20, Track chart of the Nautilus 1958 expedition. Page 191.
a. Paper. b. Figure 22, Track chart of the SKATE 1958 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Figure 24, Track chart of the SKATE 1959 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Figure 26, Track chart of the SARGO 1960 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Figure 28, Track of the Seadragon 1960 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Figure 30, Track of the SKATE 1962 expedition. Page 201.
a. Paper. b. Figure 32, Track of the Seadragon 1962 expedition.
a. Paper. b. Text supplement to pilot chart of the N. Atlantic Ocean, April 1963.
44 items
a. Paper. b. Character of sea bottom shown as rock or boulders, sand, shell, sand and shell, gravels, sand and clay, sand and gravels, clay and mud. Depths and altitudes in meters. Shows sunken rocks and shoals of depths less than 25 m (on sheet VII, 20 m)
a. Paper. b. Depths shown from 0 to over 7000 meters. Feuill B'III.
a. Photograph b. Depth lines for every 100 meters.
a. Paper. b. An interpretation based on echograms collected by U.S. Navy nuclear submarines from 1957 to 1962. Approximate vertical exaggeration is 30x horizontal. Viewpoint is 30˚ above projection plane. Earthquake epicenters from 1955 to 1964 are shown in red. Inset drawings of ships and submarines.
a. Paper. b. North of 72˚, 90˚ to 180˚ West. Depths in meters. Polar Stereographic Projection. A Centennial Project of the Canadian Hydrographic Service.
a. Paper. b. Projection Stereographique Polaire. Bathymetry shown in blue to 5000 meters and topography shown in yellow to 2000 meters.
a. Film positive. b. Shows earthquake epicenters. "Returned Oct 29, '69."
a. Paper. b. Color proof. Perspective painting by Heinrich C. Berann and assisted by Heinz Vielkind.
a. Paper. b. Based on bathymetric studies of Bruce Heezen and Marie Tharp of the Lamont- Doherty Geological Observatory and the U.S. Naval Oceanographic Office. Painted by Heinrich C. Berann, assisted by Heinz Vielkind, compiled by Leo J. Boberschmidt. Azimuthal Equidistant Projection centered on the North Pole. Vertical scale exaggerated. Arctic Ocean political map on verso.
a. Paper. b. Base map. Shows cultural features of shorelines, cities, drainage, and airfields. Elevations in feet.
a. Paper. b. Base map. Bathymetry by Bruce C. Heezen and Marie Tharp, Lamont-Doherty Laboratory, Columbia University. Bathymetry research was supported by the Office of Naval Research. See HT- II - I -10 - 0012.
a. Paper. b. Base map. Bathymetry by Bruce C. Heezen and Marie Tharp, Lamont-Doherty Laboratory, Columbia University. Bathymetry research was supported by the Office of Naval Research. Includes pencil grid and plots of epicenters for the Norwegian and Greenland Seas. See HT - II - I - 10 - 0011.
a. Paper. b. Polar Stereographic Projection. All titling information in English and French.
a. Paper. b. Polar Stereographic Projection. Naval Research Laboratory-Acoustics Division. R.K. Perry and H.S. Flemming. Depths in corrected meters and land mass elevations shown by hypsometric tints. Magnetic anomaly contours shown on verso.
a. Paper. b. Map and Chart of Series MCH 047. Primary tracks and earthquake epicenters shown on verso.
a. Paper. b. Eleven geologic period inset maps shown at top of map. The aeromagnetic profiles shown were collected by various U.S. Navy research organizations during the period 1972 to 1978. Earthquake epicenters to June, 1980 and seafloor spreading shown on verso.
a. Film negative. b. Conic projection map probably at the same scale of similar maps from Geologic Atlas of the World.
a. Film negative. b. Polar projection. Includes selected primary data soundings.
a. Film positive. b. Polar projection. Includes selected primary data soundings.
a. Film positive. b. Secondary data.
a. Ozalid copy. b. Secondary data.
a. Frosted acetate.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 1. Edited by R. P. Vasileva.
a. Paper. b. Sheet 2
a. Paper. b. Sheet 3. Contains map legend.
a. Ozalid.
a. Ozalid.
a. Film negative.
a. Paper. b. Note: "Figure 132, depth in fathoms."
a. Paper. b. Polar projection. Published for UNESCO by International Geological Mapping Bureau, Paris. 1:16,000,000
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection. Compiled from Soviet sources, 1956. Contains inset of a 1954 Soviet bathymetric chart.
a. Positive print. b. Polar projection. Shows drift of North Pole II ice field from 1950-51. “No one there at this time, so no soundings…”
a. Positive print. b. Published by the National Geographic society.
a. Blue/Black plate print. b. Covers the Arctic Ocean, completed by the National Geographic society, Oct. 1971. Includes Heezen, Tharp, and Berann data.
a. Paper. b. Twelve maps, prepared by A.F. Espinosa and J.A. Michael of the USGS, 1984.
a. Negative transparency. b. ˚ East to 160˚ North and 150˚ to 66˚ From 50 West. Russian map.
a. Negative transparency. b. ˚ to 75˚ East and 50˚ West to 130˚ From 155 North. Russian map.
3 items
a. Frosted acetate.
a. Frosted acetate. b. Polar projection.
a. Paper. b. 53˚ to 60˚ North and 30˚ to 20 ˚ West.
2 boxes; estimated 100 items
The collection consists of 32 maps and charts that depict Apollo missions and the Northern Hemisphere.
1:48,000,000.
Polar Stereographic projection.
Gnomonic projection
1:7,500,000.
Mercator projection.
1:11,000,000.
Mercator projection.
2 copies.
Apollo Mission 8.
Apollo Mission 14.
Consists of seven maps of locations in Europe and two maps of locations in the United States. All maps are from the nineteenth century.
Maps in English, German, Italian, and French.
Paris.
1:200,000.
J.L. Algermissen.
Feuille XXIV - 27.
W. Schulze.
Berlin.
Annotated.
1:100,000.
John T. Cross, Surveyor.
1:1,00,000.
Signed by Gifford Pinchot.
The collection consists of 26 aeronautical charts of Europe and the United States. Some charts are annotated.
8 items
1:500,000
1:500,000
1:500,000
1:1,000,000.
Black and white.
Includes two plotted courses.
1:500,000.
Includes notations, plotted courses, and calculations.
1:500,000
1:2,000,000.
Two copies.
1:500,000
18 items
1:500,000.
Ordnance Survey.
Verso: Dumfries, Scotland map, legend in German.
1:500,000.
A.M.S. reprint of 1941 Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Includes course plottings.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Cloth mesh backing.
1:500, 000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Verso: A.M.S. 1:100,000 map of Forcalquier, France, 1943.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Verso: Goole und Pontefact, Blatt Nr. 32, in German.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Verso: 1:80,000 Falaise, France, legend in German.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Cloth mesh backing.
1:500,000.
A.M.S. reprint of 1940 Ordnance Survey.
1:250,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
3rd edition Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
2nd edition Ordnance Survey.
Verso: 1:50,000 Boston, England, legend in German.
1:500,000.
2nd ed. Ordnance Survey.
Includes course plottings.
1:500,000.
A.M.S. reprint of 1941 Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
A.M.S. reprint of 1941 Ordnance Survey.
1:500,000.
Ordnance Survey.
Includes course plottings.
The collection consists of four air route atlases and one airport map of locations in the United States.
5 items
2nd Edition.
Presented with compliments of Gulf Refining Company.
Gulf refining company, Pittsburgh, Pa.
24 pages illustrations, including portraits, maps.
Gulf of Oil Corporation.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
24 pages illustrations, including portraits, maps.
5th Edition.
Gulf of Oil Corporation.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
32 pages with illustrations and diagrams.
Bureau of Aviation.
The collection consists of seventy-five maps depicting locations in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe, and Japan.
75 items
1 item
2 items
Arizona Highways Magazine.
1 item
National Park Service.
1 item
2 items
4 items
8 items
Gulf Oil.
Department of Transportation.
First Federal Savings.
Flagship Bank of Florida.
Singer Island Businessmen's Assocation.
2 items
State of Illinois.
State of Illinois.
1 item
2 items
Iowa City Chamber of Commerce.
1 item
1 item
Includes Greater Louisville.
1 item
Esso.
Exxon.
1 item
Esso.
Includes Cape Cod.
2 items
Chevron.
Standard Oil of California.
Greater Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce.
2 items
11 items
Standard Oil of New York.
Genesee State Park Commission.
Conservation Department, State of New York.
Mobil.
American Oil Co.
Esso
Exxon.
1 item
1 item
4 items
1 item
1 item
1 item
2 items
Exxon
Exxon.
1 item
7 items
Shell Oil.
Shell.
Esso.
Shell.
1 item
2 items
2 items
Michelin 62.
Michelin 57.
1 item
1 item
1 item
Guide map and a street plan.
4 items
1 item
This collection contains photocopies of original press releases released by the American television networks ABC and CBS between June 11, 1962 and July 4, 1970. The original press releases were collected by David A. Dunsford. The press releases pertain to news programs, television specials, documentaries, movies of the week, religious programs, variety shows, talk shows, soap operas, news programming, dramas, and situation comedies broadcast by ABC and CBS.
The Jerry Lewis Papers consist of scripts and sketch material; memos and other correspondence; itineraries; business and legal papers; photographic prints, proof sheets, and negatives; press clippings and publicity; and other materials related to the film and television career of comedian, actor, and filmmaker Jerry Lewis, primarily from the period following the breakup of the act he formed with singer and comedian Dean Martin. Also included are papers related to Lewis's work with the Muscular Dystrophy Association's annual telethon, and his teaching work at the University of Southern California.
Rundown.
Ernest D. Glucksman was producer or associate producer for multiple Jerry Lewis television appearances and films from 1950-1964.
The papers of George Smith Patton (1885-1945) span the years 1807-1979, with the bulk of the papers concentrated from 1904 to 1945. The collection documents Patton's military career, including his attendance at the United States Military Academy at West Point, 1904-1909; his service on the Mexican border as a member of John J. Pershing's Mexican Punitive Expedition, 1916-1917; his service as an aide-de-camp to Pershing and later as a tank commander in World War I, 1917-1919; and his military career from 1938 to 1945. The majority of the papers chronicle Patton's World War II service and his success as one of America's most skillful combat commanders of armored troops. The papers consist of eleven series: Diaries, Chronological File, Family Papers, Correspondence, Military Papers, Military Library, Maps, Photographs, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, and Oversize. Most of the series relate to Patton's personal and military activities and his leadership in the development and tactical use of the tank as a combat weapon. Additional papers concerning Patton's service in World War I are in the Chester Fritz Library of the University of North Dakota located near Grand Forks, North Dakota.
The Diaries, 1910-1945, illustrate Patton's activities during the Mexican Punitive Expedition, World War I, and World War II. The volumes, particularly from 1942 to 1945, document Patton's daily activities and observations and reveal his candor about himself, personally and professionally. They include information about American ground combat operations in the campaign for North Africa, the invasion of Sicily, the liberation of France, and the final assault on Germany. Annotated volumes covering World War II often contain additional detail expanding on the original volume entries. The original diaries are dated through 24 March 1945, while annotated transcripts continue to 3 December 1945. The Library did not receive the latter portion of the original diaries. Additional topics include Patton's honeymoon trip to Europe in 1910 and his fox hunting activities, 1932-1935.
The Chronological File, 1901-1977, provides an overview of Patton's life, serving as a combination diary-scrapbook consisting mainly of diary entries, correspondence, memoranda, and reports. Approximately one half of the series is in transcript form. The originals of these transcripts are located in other series. This series also contains original items, primarily correspondence, that do not appear in any other series.
The Family Papers, 1857-1979, consist mainly of Patton's letters to his wife, Beatrice Banning Ayer Patton, and his father, George S. Patton (1856-1927). Early letters chronicle Patton's struggle as a student at West Point. His letters to his wife are detailed and, like the diaries, contain frank assessments of commanders, subordinates, and military operations. Patton shared not only his achievements with his wife but also some of the negative incidents that affected his career, such as the reaction in November 1943 when the press reported that he had slapped two soldiers suffering battle fatigue in Sicily and his remarks in a speech in Knutsford, England, in April 1944 omitting inclusions of Russia as one of the countries likely to rule the postwar world with the United States and Great Britain. Both incidents threatened his career and almost resulted in his removal from the war. Also in the Family Papers are correspondence of Beatrice Patton and an autobiographical account of Patton's memories of his father. There is a significant amount of printed matter of George H. Smith, Patton's step-grandfather, concerning the Civil War battle of New Market, Virginia.
Papers in the Correspondence series, 1903-1945, include incoming and outgoing correspondence between Patton and his staff, commanders, government officials, friends, and the general public. Because many of Patton's friends and colleagues were in the military, there is a significant amount of material in the chronological correspondence that relates to military matters. The official correspondence documents the planning of various combat operations, particularly for the Allied invasion of Sicily and D-Day planning for France and reflects Patton's varied duties as a commander. The topical correspondence includes fan mail, inquiries on casualties, furloughs and discharges, the slapping incidents in Sicily, and Christmas and get-well letters sent to Patton after his automobile accident in December 1945.
The Military Papers, 1903-1976, consist of administrative files, Patton's personnel file, and a subject file. The bulk of the series illustrates Patton's duties while a combat commander from 1942 to 1945. The files include orders, citations, memoranda, speeches, training instructions, policy and procedural material, and reports concerning units Patton commanded. Speeches made by Patton to his troops during World War II were originally filed in the Military Papers, and this order has been retained. Duplicates of some of these speeches are filed in the Speeches and Writings File. Documents relating to Patton's personnel file include both personal and official papers. The official papers are included in a microfilm copy of Patton's file in the records of the Department of the Army. Prominent topics featured in the subject file are the cavalry, casualty information, denazification of Germany, displaced persons, and tanks. Much of the material relating to tanks concerns the development of that vehicle and the tactics of armored warfare. The series also contains material relating to Patton's death and funeral.
The Military Library series, 1907-1947, includes class publications from West Point, intelligence and campaign reports, and other material relating to military tactics. The majority of the series consists of campaign reports pertaining to France and Germany.
Items in the Maps series, 1906-1945, reflect Patton's interest in cartography. Most of the items are situation maps of the European theater and commemorative maps of the United States Third Army's operations in Europe. A map of Western Europe, marked by Patton in March 1944 prior to the development of campaign plans, illustrates with remarkable accuracy the projected route that the Third Army would take in its advance across France and Germany.
The Photographs series, 1864-1958, consist primarily of items relating to Patton's military career, although there are a few family photographs in the "Miscellaneous" folders. Locations featured in the World War II pictures include North Africa, Sicily, England, France, and Germany. Also well represented are Patton's years at the military academy at West Point, his tenure at Fort Meade, Maryland, and his service with the Mexican Punitive Expedition. World War II "Miscellaneous" folders include photographs, some autographed, of Patton's superiors and fellow officers.
Papers in the Speeches and Writings File, 1900-1947, consist chiefly of articles, speeches, reports, lectures, book reviews, memoranda, poetry, and memoirs. A few writings of others interfiled in this series with Patton's texts are listed in a partial index compiled by Patton. Prominent topics featured in Patton's writings include the saber, the cavalry, mechanization, tanks, and tank tactics. Patton's writings illustrate his early interest in armored warfare and indicate his belief in the tank as an important combat weapon long before its success in World War II. A 1937 paper entitled "Surprise" includes Patton's prediction of an attack by Japan on Pearl Harbor.
The Miscellany series, 1911-1966, includes biographical information, certificates and citations, reports, and printed matter relating chiefly to Patton's participation in the pentathlon in the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm, his interests in fencing and swordsmanship, and his attendance at the Mounted Service School, Fort Riley, Kansas. Also documented in the series are the various medals and honors awarded Patton during his lifetime and posthumously. The Oversize series, 1807-1951, consists principally of maps, overlays, photograph albums, and scrapbooks of newspaper clippings, correspondence, photographs, and other printed matter.
Prominent among Patton's correspondents are Harold Alexander (Earl Alexander of Tunis), Terry de la Mesa Allen, Henry Harley Arnold, Charles Fanning Ayer, Frederick Ayer, Omar Nelson Bradley, Arvin H. Brown, Mark W. Clark, Lucius D. Clay, Charles R. Codman, Willis Dale Crittenberger, Jacob L. Devers, Walter Francis Dillingham, James Harold Doolittle, Manton S. Eddy, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Riley Finlay Ennis, Harry Albert Flint, Hobart R. Gay, Charles P. George, Alvan Cullom Gillem, Jr., Robert W. Grow, Wade H. Haislip, Thomas T. Handy, James G. Harbord, Ernest Nason Harmon, Guy Vernor Henry, Courtney H. Hodges, Kenyon Ashe Joyce, Alphonse Juin, Geoffrey Keyes, John Clifford Hodges Lee, Henry Cabot Lodge, John Porter Lucas, Lesley James McNair, George C. Marshall, Keith Merrill, Troy H. Middleton, Sherman Miles, Charles (August Paul) Noguès, Elmer Q. Oliphant, Floyd Lavinius Parks, Willard Stewart Paul, John J. Pershing, Charles L. Scott, William H. Simpson, Walter Bedell Smith, Brehon Burke Somervell, Carl Spaatz, Henry Lewis Stimson, Charles Pelot Summerall, Alexander D. Surles, Lucian King Truscott, James Alexander Ulio, Walton Harris Walker, Frederick C. Wallace, J. J. Bethurun Williams, and John Shirley Wood.
Throughout his papers, Patton used nicknames, abbreviations, and code words to denote certain persons and operations. The following names and words are found primarily in his World War II diaries and correspondence and the chronological file for those years:
"Ike," "d," "D," "Destiny"--Dwight D. Eisenhower
"Brad," "tent maker"--Omar Nelson Bradley
"P"--John Shirley Wood
"Hap"--Henry Harley Arnold
"Critt"--Willis Dale Crittenberger
"Jake"--Jacob L. Devers
"Tody"--Charles P. George
"Van"--Alvan Cullom Gillem, Jr.
"Beadle"--Walter Bedell Smith
"Tooey"--Carl Spaatz
"Day"--Alexander D. Surles
"Paddy"--Harry Albert Flint
"Husky"--Allied invasion of Sicily, 10 July 1943
"Bigot"--D-Day planning, 1944
Holograph and typewritten diaries, bound and unbound.
A collection of diary entries, correspondence, school papers, memoranda, reports, photographs, articles, speeches, lectures, maps, notebooks, orders, citations, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material.
Correspondence between Patton and family members with attachments and enclosures, genealogical material, printed matter, and miscellaneous papers relating to the family.
Chronological, official, and topical correspondence, with attached and appended material, between Patton and his staff, army officials, friends, acquaintances, and the general public.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, orders, citations, speeches, photographs, training instructions, policy and procedural material, Patton's personnel file, and printed matter.
Reports, printed matter, near-print material, and typed notes.
Maps from various phases of Patton's military career.
Bound and unbound photographs.
Holograph, typescript, near-print, and published copies of articles, speeches, lectures, book reviews, memoranda, reports, field manuals, instructional material, poetry, and memoirs.
Memoranda, reports, biographical information, citations, certificates, photographs, near-print and printed matter, notes and notebooks, postcards, and newspaper clippings.
Correspondence, photographs, certificates, calling cards, and other material retained after microfilming. Once the scrapbooks were microfilmed, the volumes, OV 23-OV 49, were destroyed.
Oversize material consisting of maps, diagrams and blueprints, overlays, photographs, charts, posters, a report, and scrapbooks.
The papers of James Whitcomb Riley (1849-1916) span the years 1883-1915 and include correspondence, poems, and a drawing. Riley was born in Greenfield, Indiana, and is known as the "Hoosier poet." He was on the staff of the Indianapolis Journal, 1877-1885, and his contributions to that newspaper established his fame as a poet.
The papers include letters from Riley to William C. Edgar, C. E. Farrell, Samuel E. Kiser, Clara E. Laughlin, James Newton Matthews, Cyrus F. McNutt, DeWitt Miller, James B. Pond, John Clark Ridpath, George Smith, Louis Untermeyer, Eugene Fitch Ware, and others. The papers also include a drawing by Riley of his friend, Bill Nye.
Manuscript poems in the collection include "To Robert Burns Wilson," "The Poems Here at Home," "Say Farewell and Let Me Go!," "At 'The Literary,'" "A Pen-Pictur' of a Certin Frivvelus Old Man," and an untitled verse written for a Mr. Washington. Typescript poems include "The Name of Old Glory," "The Lisper," "The Young Old Man," and "At 'The Literary.'"
The papers of William Allen (1803-1879) span the years 1796-1879, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1840-1876. The collection focuses on his career in Ohio politics, first as United States representative and senator, then as governor of Ohio. Included are correspondence, speeches, memoranda, financial records, printed matter, maps, and other material. The papers are arranged in a bound Chronological File and a Miscellany.
The Chronological File consists primarily of correspondence, financial records, maps, and other material concerning Ohio and national politics during the 1840s and the 1870s. Topics include support of the United States annexation of Texas, the Mexican War, Oregon claims, land surveys, and the Greenback movement. Correspondents include James Faran, James Graham, John Hough, Amos Layman, George Morgan, and Henry A. Whitman.
The Miscellany consists of an account book of the Stoney Mill Salt Works, Chillicothe, Ohio, dating from 1811 to 1823, which Allen used partially as the backing for a scrapbook of clippings from 1825 to 1827. Also in the series are cancelled bank checks, an 1838 directory of the United States government, memoranda books containing jottings and accounting notes, newspaper clippings, a notebook, a promissory note, political literature, a scrapbook, speeches by Allen and others, and the records of the Chillicothe Independent Blues, an Ohio militia corps.
Correspondence, speeches, memoranda, financial records, printed matter, and other papers largely related to Allen's career as a United States congressman (1833-1835) and senator (1837-1848) and governor of Ohio (1874-1876).
Account book, scrapbooks, memorandum books, notebooks, political literature, records of the Chillicothe Independent Blues Militia Corps, speeches, and other material.
The papers of Lorenzo Johnston Greene (1899-1988), pioneer in African-American historical studies and multiculturalism, editor, and civil rights and social activist, span the years 1680-1988, with the bulk of the material documenting Greene's thirty-nine year career (1933-1972) at Lincoln University, Jefferson City, Missouri, and as a professor emeritus at that historically black institution from his retirement in 1972 to his death in 1988. Before coming to Lincoln University, Greene was a field representative for the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History (ASNLH) and a close associate of Carter G. Woodson, the founder of the organization and the "father of Afro-American history." As an educator, Greene was an early advocate of the introduction of multicultural content into grade school and college texts nationwide. He wrote numerous monographs and articles, including The Negro In Colonial New England, 1620-1776, and edited the Midwest Journal, sponsored by Lincoln University. Greene's community service, in which he stressed open housing and school desegregation, included helping to found the Missouri Commission on Human Rights and chairing the human rights committee of the Missouri Association for Social Welfare and the education subcommittee of the Missouri Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. His papers are organized into seven series: Family, Academic, Professional Organizations, Public Interest Organizations, Speeches and Writings, Addition, and Oversize.
Greene maintained a long-term correspondence with family members, childhood friends, and friends cultivated in New York and Washington, D.C., during graduate school at Columbia University and field work with the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History. Correspondence, biographical material on Greene, and subject files concerning family members are available in the Family series. The largest file in the series concerns Greene's wife, concert pianist Thomasina T. Greene, and includes Greene's correspondence as her tour manager and material on her father, Thomas W. Talley, a chemistry professor and pioneering African-American folklorist who wrote Negro Folk Rhymes.
The Academic series documents Greene's career at Lincoln University and is organized into Administrative, Correspondence, General, Midwest Journal, and Research subseries. The Administrative subseries includes files related to African-American studies courses and curricula, academic committees, and student affairs. Large files in the subseries relate to the Institute for Drop-Out Prevention and Teacher Orientation and to the Institute to Facilitate Desegregation in Kansas City, Mo., Public Schools, headed by Greene during 1971-1974.
Correspondents prominent in the Correspondence subseries of the Academic File include Herbert Aptheker, Gerald L. Davis, Herman Dreer, W. E. B. Du Bois, William L. Dunn, Mervyn M. Dymally, Merl R. Eppse, John E. Fleming, Charles W. Florence, James Frank, H. Hadley Hartshorn, J. Noel Heermance, W. B. Jason, Charles S. Johnson, Harold J. Jonas, Peter Kellogg, Charles L. Klotzer, Wilbur C. McAfee, Mabel M. Smythe, Arvarh E. Strickland, and Marion Manola Wright.
Documentation of Greene's study of the African-American experience in his home region includes a substantial file in the General subseries of the Academic series relating to his work as a consultant for the Parting Ways Museum of Afro-American Ethnohistory in Plymouth, Massachusetts, an institution focusing on black history in New England. This file contains correspondence with Marjorie E. Anderson, founder and long-time director of the museum. Also documented in the General subseries is Greene's participation with his students in the sharecroppers' roadside demonstration movement during 1939-1940 in southern Missouri, a precursor to the activist stage of the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s.
The Midwest Journal subseries relates to Greene's editorship during 1947-1956. The Midwest Journal under Greene was a magazine of research and creative writing with an international reputation, emphasizing, but not limited to, African-American writers and issues. Material on the journal includes an editorial file containing biographical material on contributing writers, draft articles, correspondence with publishers, and a general correspondence file containing letters largely to and from contributing writers. General correspondents of the Midwest Journal subseries include Herbert Aptheker, Thomas Hart Benton, Cecil A. Blue, Lois M. Jones, and George Shepperson.
The Research subseries of the Academic File contains files concerning public records on African Americans in several New England states, including copies of documents related to the 1781 Jennison v. Walker case, a major factor in the abolition of slavery in Massachusetts, and copies of payrolls (1778-1779) and invalid accounts (1790) of the black First Rhode Island Regiment of the Continental Army. Material on the African-American experience in Missouri contained in the Research subseries of the Academic series includes correspondence related to a county by county survey conducted by Greene of black marriages in the state during 1865-1900, a 1936 interview with former slave Dilcey Ann Patterson, a file on African-American public schools during the era of segregation, and material on the Sixty-Fifth and Sixty-Eighth regiments, United States Colored Troops, whose members founded Lincoln University after the Civil War.
Historical material on black Americans in the Research subseries of the Academic series, however, is not limited to the New England region and Missouri. Greene conducted correspondence spanning 1934-1983 with libraries and archives throughout the United States inquiring about manuscript resources on African Americans. An example of the wealth of material he uncovered through this process is correspondence from the Washington State Historical Society on George W. Bush and William O. Bush, father and son African-American pioneers and civic leaders in the Pacific Northwest.
The Research subseries also documents Greene's efforts starting in the 1930s to introduce African-American studies and multiculturalism into textbooks and curricula nationwide. A project in 1964 to chart the representation of African Americans in over 150 history and social science textbooks spanning 1941-1964 is especially well documented.
Greene's commitment to the development of African-American history as both a branch of the historical profession and as a means of black consciousness-raising is reflected in the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History (ASNLH) file of the Professional Organizations series. Greene was active in the ASNLH, which in 1976 changed its name to the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History (ASALH), throughout his career, twice serving as program committee chair for annual meetings and, during 1965-1966, as president of the organization. Of special interest is correspondence with Carter G. Woodson, long-time executive director of the ASNLH, and Charles H. Wesley, president of Central State University, Wilberforce, Ohio. Other ASNLH and ASALH file correspondents include Clarence Bacote, Andrew F. Brimmer, Herman Dreer, Mervyn M. Dymally, Merl R. Eppse, John Hope Franklin, Jacqueline Goggin, Adelaide C. Gulliver, Harvey Jackson, Luther P. Jackson, Ulysses G. Lee, Rayford W. Logan, Paul McStallworth, Louis R. Mehlinger, August Meier, M. Sammye Miller, Benjamin Quarles, Lawrence Dunbar Reddick, William P. Robinson, Patricia W. Romero, Charles W. Thomas, Harcourt A. Tynes, and Raleigh Wilson.
The Public Interest Organizations series documents Greene's civil rights and social activism and includes files on the Missouri Advisory Committee to the United States Commission on Civil Rights, Missouri Association for Social Welfare (MASW), and the Missouri Commission on Human Rights. Correspondents represented in MASW file of the series include Mary E. Brooks, Edward Parsons, Richard E. Risk, and Bert Shulimson.
Developed from research at Columbia University, Greene's The Negro in Colonial New England 1620-1776, first published in 1941, is still considered a definitive work on the subject and has been republished in several editions. His thesis and dissertation versions of this work are filed with related correspondence spanning 1941-1980 in the Speeches and Writings series. Als included in the series are drafts and correspondence related to the unpublished "Abolition of Slavery in New England 1688-1776" and speeches and articles by Greene on African Americans in New England, including an especially strong file of writings on black soldiers, sailors, and military units of Revolutionary War era Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Missouri material in the Speeches and Writings series includes files on The Negro in the Making of Missouri and Missouri's Black Heritage, monographs cowritten by Greene. Greene's service between 1928-1933 as a research assistant and field representative to Carter G. Woodson is documented in several versions of Greene's transcribed diaries filed in the Speeches and Writings series.
The Addition includes general correspondence and an exchange of letters between Greene and his wife dating 1942-1954.
Correspondence, address books, clippings, biographical material, legal papers, printed matter, concert programs, and miscellaneous material.
Memoranda, minutes of meetings, announcements, vitae, reports, grant proposals, correspondence, clippings, case files, constitutions, course and curricula development material, and miscellaneous material relating largely to Lincoln University.
Correspondence sent and received with attached and related material.
Correspondence, bibliographies, fliers, reports, newsletters, newspapers, news releases, clippings, publishers' catalogs and brochures, student writings, yearbooks, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, manuscript articles, short stories, poems, transcriptions of archival documents, biographical material, galleys, subscription and circulation lists, brochures, and miscellaneous material. Later material relates to reprint permissions and microfilming projects.
Reports, correspondence, topical files, photostats of archival documents, draft books, statistical material, legal documents, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, minutes, reports, proposals, constitutions, financial statements, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, minutes, plans, newsletters, press releases, reports, statements, membership lists, clippings, draft legislation, directories, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Interviews and panel discussions arranged chronologically; drafts of speeches by Greene arranged alphabetically by title and those by others organized chronologically; drafts and published versions of articles, books, dissertations, diaries, poems, and song lyrics, mostly by Greene, with correspondence, reviews, plans of work, and related material arranged alphabetically by type of material and then by title.
Correspondence, photostats of archival documents, topical files, notes, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Charts related to a project tracking references to African-Americans in textbooks and United States Colored Troops muster roll fragments.
The papers of Jefferson Patterson (1891-1977) span the years from 1824 to 1981, with the bulk of the papers concentrated in the period from 1921 to 1977. The majority of the items document Patterson's career in the foreign service on five continents, North America, South America, Europe, Africa, and Asia, from 1921 to 1952 and 1956 to 1958. One of Patterson's most notable achievements as a diplomat was his instrumental role in arranging a ceasefire between Israel and Egypt in January 1949 during the Palestine War. The papers consist of eight series: Diaries, Family Papers, Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, Oversize.
Transcripts of Patterson's diaries, 1928-1930, document his personal and professional activities during his last three years as a junior embassy official in Ankara, Turkey. There are two copies of the 1928 diary.
The papers of Patterson's immediate family make up the bulk of the Family Papers series, 1824-1978. The majority of this series consists of family letters to and from Jefferson Patterson, the papers of his parents, Julia Shaw Patterson Carnell and Frank Jefferson Patterson, and his sister, Mary Patterson Davidson. Patterson's letters to his mother comprise over half of her papers and provide a detailed account of his life as a foreign service officer from 1921 through 1950. Much of Jefferson Patterson's family correspondence relates to his social activities and obligations as a diplomat. Letters to his mother describing Berlin, Germany, during the outbreak of World War II and his duties as head of the Prisoner of War Section at the American embassy are especially noteworthy. He was responsible for ensuring that the prisoners of war of France, Belgium, and Britain were properly treated according to the rules of the Geneva Convention.
The papers of Frank Patterson include personal correspondence and financial and legal papers relating to the National Cash Register Company, which he owned with his brother, John. Letters written by Mary Davidson concern family matters and news about her travels and the various military posts where she and her husband, Major General Howard C. Davidson, were stationed, including Montgomery, Alabama; Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Riverside, California; Washington, D.C.; Honolulu, Hawaii; and London, England. Also included in the papers of Julia Carnell and Mary Davidson are letters of condolence regarding the death of Patterson's younger brother Stuart who was killed in 1918 at Dayton, Ohio, while testing an airplane. The airstrip was subsequently named Wright-Patterson Field in honor of Stuart Patterson and the Wright brothers.
The Family Papers also contain typescripts of letters written by Jefferson Patterson and his sister. The typescripts were arranged previously in notebooks in chronological order. The original order has been retained, and the typescripts are filed with Patterson and Davidson's papers. The series also provides background on the family's early settlement in Dayton, Ohio, and include letters of Patterson's grandfathers, George W. Shaw and Colonel Jefferson Patterson. Noteworthy correspondence collected by the family, located in the folder "Miscellaneous" (container 14), includes a letter of John C. Calhoun to a Major Austin inviting him to assist in the evaluation of West Point cadets, 1824; a letter of William H. Seward to the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee regarding the application of treaties to foreign countries and United States ports, 1864; and a letter by William T. Sherman concerning the importance of doing one's duty in "any phase in which fortune may find you," 1878. The general scrapbooks in the Miscellany series also include family papers.
The Correspondence series, 1909-1966, consists of incoming and outgoing letters pertaining to Patterson's personal and professional interests, including typed excerpts, 1921-1949, of Patterson's letters pertaining chiefly to his foreign service activities while stationed at various embassies. The excerpts, arranged chronologically, provide no indication to whom Patterson was writing. Probably used by Patterson to write his books about his diplomatic career, these excerpts approximate diary entries and describe his daily life in the various locations where he was stationed, such as Peking, China; Bogota, Columbia; Ankara, Turkey; Washington, D.C.; Breslau, Poland; Oslo, Norway; Berlin, Germany; Lima, Peru; Brussels, Belgium; and Cairo, Egypt. Among the more prominent and frequent correspondents in this series are William H. Beck, Katharine Kennedy Brown, George H. Chaney, J. Rives Childs, James Aloysius Farley, Stanton Griffis, James Hugh Keeley, Jr., John L. King, Harry L. Munger, Maxwell M. Rabb, S. Pinkney Tuck, and Edward D. Vance.
The Subject File, 1946-1978, consists primarily of correspondence, memoranda, invitations, and receipts pertaining mainly to Patterson's life after his retirement. The series reflects his interest in art and sports, his philanthropic contributions to various organizations and causes, his active involvement with the Republican party, and the operation of his farm in St. Leonard, Maryland, where he raised tobacco and Aberdeen/Angus cattle.
The Speeches and Writings File, 1923-1971, contains speeches, book drafts, notes and related material, and other writings. The majority of the series is made up of drafts and notes of Patterson's books Diplomatic Duty and Diversion and Diplomatic Terminus and an unpublished work, "Flashbacks and Reflections."
The final series, Miscellany, 1894-1977, contains correspondence, financial and legal papers, notes and recollections, academic notebooks, and scrapbooks. The academic file consists mainly of notebooks documenting Patterson's business and law studies at Harvard University. The ambassador and diplomatic service file, which overlaps with the Correspondence and Subject File series, includes a wide variety of material, such as clippings, correspondence, and printed matter documenting Patterson's personal and professional activities. Much of the material in the ambassador file relates to Patterson's service as United States representative to the United Nations Special Committee on the Balkans, 1950-1952. His notes and recollections provide a vivid account of the work of that committee. Financial and legal papers document Patterson's personal business interests and expenditures.
The 2018 Addition spans from 1909 to 1981 with the bulk of the items concentrated from 1941 to 1977. Papers in the 2018 Addition complement the initial portion of the collection and consist mainly of correspondence, family papers, and scrapbooks. The correspondence and scrapbooks pertain chiefly to Patterson's personal and professional endeavors. The majority of the correspondence, 1953-1955, relates to Patterson's career and his wish to be considered for another diplomatic posting. The scrapbooks also include letters pertaining to the books Patterson wrote about his diplomatic career.
Typescripts of diaries chronicling Patterson's activities as a foreign service official in Ankara, Turkey.
Correspondence, typescripts of letters, financial and legal papers, clippings, and printed matter relating to various members of Patterson's family.
Correspondence, memoranda, and cablegrams, between Patterson and his colleagues, friends, government officials, and the general public relating to his diplomatic duties and his personal activities. Also included are typed excerpts of letters written by Patterson.
Correspondence, memoranda, invitations, photographs, bills, receipts, itineraries, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, speeches, book drafts, poetry and miscellaneous writings, notes and related material, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, financial and legal papers, notes and recollections, student notebooks, appointment books, address books, passports and visas, medical and military papers, certificates, calling cards, scrapbooks, and printed matter.
Correspondence, family papers, invitations, notes and jottings, photographs, poetry, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material relating to Patterson's personal and professional activities.
The papers of Vincent Leonard Price, Jr., (1911-1993) span the years 1883-1992, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1932-1992. They document his life as an actor, art collector and critic, writer, lecturer, and gourmet cook. The interconnectedness of his activities and interests is evident in this collection. Price got his start as an actor on the London stage while he was studying art history at the University of London. Throughout his life, Price was a strong supporter of the arts and used his celebrity as an actor as a tool to bring art into people's lives. He used the money gained through acting to buy art. He lent works from his art collection and donated many of them to galleries and museums. He served on arts councils and wrote on art and cooking. He lectured on his life as an actor and on art. He narrated an academy award winning film on Chagall. He appeared as an art expert on the television quiz show "The $64,000 Challenge" and hosted a cooking show. He exploited his fame as the star of horror films to sell products ranging from credit cards to submarine sandwiches. Although Price achieved fame by playing villains, early in his career he was considered a matinee idol.
Price's papers are arranged into six series: Family Papers; General Correspondence; Sears, Roebuck and Company Files; Speeches and Writings Files; Stage, Screen and Studio Files; and a Subject File.
The Family Papers series, 1883-1992, consists of correspondence and other material grouped under the names of family members. The correspondence is arranged chronologically and consists primarily of letters received from members of Vincent Price's family: his wives, actress Edith Barrett, costume designer Mary Grant, and actress Coral Browne; his son Vincent Barrett ("Barrett"); his daughter Mary Victoria ("Toria"); his sisters Harriet Fenton ("Hat") and Laura Louise Gay ("Lollie"), as well as other relatives. Also in this series are letters from Vincent Price ("Bink") to his parents in the 1930s describing his European tour with the Yale University Glee Club, his art studies at the University of London, and his experiences in Hollywood working on his first film.
While correspondence relating to specific activities is filed by topic in the relevant series, the General Correspondence series, 1938-1992, is arranged in chronological order and documents Price's friendships and the wide variety of his interests and activities. The major portion of this series consists of letters received, although attached to much of the correspondence from the 1960s are copies of Price's handwritten responses or the responses typed by his secretary, Wawona Hartwig. This correspondence includes letters spanning fifty years from friends such as college roommate Edmund Thomas ("Ted") and Cecil Baldwin, whom he met while teaching at Riverdale Country Day School; official letters requesting appearances or proposing other activities; and mail from the public relating to his acting, writings, and art expertise. Prominent correspondents include Letitia Baldrige, Charles Collingwood, Joan Crawford, Henry Dreyfuss, Deanna Durbin, Alec Guinness, Helen Hayes, Sam Jaffe, Roddy McDowell, Stanley Marcus, Perry Rathbone, Joan Rivers, and Mary Wickes.
The Sears, Roebuck and Company series documents Price's activities as a consultant to this firm from 1962 to 1977. As part of his work with Sears, he formed Vincent Price Enterprises along with Lester Salkow and Harry Sundheim. Mary Grant Price was also active in Sears ventures. The major focus of his work involved the Vincent Price Collection of Fine Art which Price put together as original art for sale in Sears stores. Price saw this venture as a part of his efforts to bring art to people in their daily lives. As part of this project he travelled throughout the world buying original works of art. Mary Grant Price did the framing of the art work. Shows of selected pieces were sent to Sears stores throughout the country at prices ranging from as little as twenty-five dollars to ten thousand dollars. Vincent Price made personal appearances at many of the art shows. Other activities he undertook for Sears included the development of reproductions for a decorating line called National Treasures and other merchandise such as a line of men's toiletries, chocolates, and a Bible illustrated with the works of Michelangelo. He also made public appearances and advertising commercials promoting various Sears products and ventures. Correspondence with Julius and Lessing J. Rosenwald, artists such as Streeter Blair, Peter Hurd, Harold Towne, and Andrew Wyeth, and with the major figures involved in planning and administering these Sears activities is also included.
Price's writings on a wide range of subjects are contained in the Speeches and Writings Files, 1931-1991. His books include a popular cookbook written with his wife, an autobiographical memoir of his experiences with art, a tribute to his favorite dog, a book on American art, and a discussion of monsters written with his son. The books file contains original drafts, correspondence, research notes, and clippings, with the exception of I Like What I Know, which does not contain a draft of the text. The articles file covers topics ranging from his acting career to art, travel, and cooking. Price also wrote forewords and introductions to cookbooks, art books, and biographies. The columns file relates to the newspaper column on art which Price wrote from 1966 to 1970 for the Chicago Tribune-New York News syndicate; it contains his drafts, notes, and related correspondence. The poetry file contains poems Price wrote throughout his life, many jotted on scraps of paper, the back of script pages, and airplane boarding passes. Poetry was a common form of expression for several generations of the Price family. The Family Papers series includes poems written by his father and his son. The lectures and addresses file contains the texts of talks Price gave at specific events as well as various versions of the lectures he performed on tour.
Encompassing many aspects of the entertainment business, the Stage, Screen, and Studio Files, 1935-1992, chronicle Price's career as an actor and entertainer. Price performed on the stage, in films, on radio, and on television. He served as narrator in live performances and in the studio. He made commercials for a variety of products and public service announcements for many organizations. He went on lecture tours and made numerous additional public appearances, serving as master of ceremonies at awards functions and fashion shows, as art judge and auctioneer, as celebrity chef, and as guest lecturer on cruises. He attended a great variety of functions. This series is organized according to type of activity and is then arranged either alphabetically by title of project or chronologically. Files contain scripts, programs, correspondence, clippings, and other documents.
Included in the films section of this series are files on the majority of Price's motion pictures. Although Price was renowned for his roles in horror pictures, his film career had many more dimensions. There are some gaps in coverage, primarily in films from the 1940s, including Laura, Leave Her to Heaven, and Shock. Contained in the files, however, are materials relating to his first movie, Service de Luxe; his films for American International Pictures; Theatre of Blood, the project in which he met and acted with his future wife, Coral Browne; Vincent, in which he narrated a film short by Tim Burton about a boy who idolized Vincent Price; and Disney's The Great Mouse Detective, in which he provided the voice of the villain, Professor Ratigan.
The lectures section of the Stage, Screen, and Studio Files provides a chronological record of the presentations Price conducted several months each year, such as "Three American Voices," "Dear Theo", "The Enjoyment of Great Art," and "The Villains Still Pursue Me." He lectured primarily at colleges, women's clubs, and in town lecture series. As a lecturer he often attended dinners, visited art galleries, and met with students. For a time he was the highest paid lecturer in the United States.
Price's extensive work in the theater, on the London stage, on Broadway, and in summer stock is recorded in the plays section of this series. The files primarily contain programs, correspondence, and clippings. Included is Orson Welles's Mercury Theatre production of Shoemaker's Holiday. Price married his costar Edith Barrett. There are extensive files on the musical, Darling of the Day, which played on Broadway in 1968, and Diversions and Delights, the one-man play in which Price portrayed Oscar Wilde from 1977 to 1982.
The radio section covers much of Price's radio work, including appearances on programs in the United States and England and on voice tracks for Voice of America programs. Missing, however, are materials from early dramatic broadcasts on which Price performed, such as "Escape," "Suspense," and "The Saint."
Starting in the early days of the medium, Vincent Price made over a thousand appearances on television in all types of programming. As the television section of this series illustrates, he performed in dramas, situation comedies, variety shows, game shows, talk shows, and programs for children. He played serious roles as well as humorous characterizations of his film persona on British as well as American television. Documents contained in this section include his official statements regarding his activities on "The $64,000 Challenge" made during the quiz show scandal investigations, the transcript of Edward R. Murrow's interview with him in his art-filled home for the "Person to Person" program, and the discussion topics for his many appearances on the NBC program "The Tonight Show" from the 1960s through the 1980s.
The miscellaneous files section of the Stage, Screen, and Studio files contains general material relating to Price's career as a performer. While publicity relating to a specific project is filed with that project, the publicity file in this section contains more general and personal publicity. Similarly, contracts and correspondence from agents relating to a specific project are filed with that project, but general material from agents is filed here under business materials.
The Subject File, 1920-1992, is arranged alphabetically by topic and contains files relating to Price's personal art collection and his involvement with various organizations, museums, and academic institutions. There are files on the schools he attended in St. Louis and on Yale University and the Courtauld Institute of Art at the University of London. There are also files on his work to support and promote the art of Native Americans. Price served on the Indian Arts and Crafts Board of the Interior Department for over a decade and sponsored the Vincent Price awards in creative writing through the Institute of American Indian Arts. A few appointment books and calendars provide insight into his busy life for the years covered. In addition, under the heading "Staff" are memoranda and reports from office staff to Price to keep him apprised of news and activities relating to his projects and schedule while he was filming, on art buying trips, or on lecture tours.
Personal correspondence, fan mail, requests, proposals, and other correspondence of a general nature.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, charts, critiques, planning and research notes, purchasing records, scheduling and shipping records, promotional materials, clippings, exhibit brochures and catalogs, and other printed matter.
Holograph and typewritten manuscripts, notes and jottings, research notes, related correspondence, and clippings.
Scripts, programs, playbills, correspondence, telegrams, schedules and itineraries, contracts, clippings, storyboards, publicity and promotional materials, and other records relating to Price's acting roles and other performances and appearances as an entertainer and celebrity.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial records, receipts, brochures, appointment books and calendars, certificates, notes, clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous materials.
Oversize material consisting of large illustrated letters, posters, programs, scrapbooks, and a computer printout.
The papers of Theodore Roosevelt Jr. (1887-1944), which include correspondence and other papers of his wife Eleanor Butler Roosevelt, cover the period 1780-1962, bulking largest between 1920 and 1944. The collection consists of Diaries, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Special Correspondence, Letters of Condolence and Congratulation, Subject File, Speech, Article, and Book File, Printed Matter, and Papers of Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919). The last segment of the papers contains correspondence of President Theodore Roosevelt, including nine letters addressed to Marcus Alonzo (Mark) Hanna.
Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., was not a consistent diarist. However, the diaries he did maintain, written primarily during the 1920s, are significant for their observations on important events and individuals. There are numerous entries concerning his activities as assistant secretary of the navy and his relationships with Secretary of the Navy Edwin Denby, President Warren G. Harding, and others. The diaries, which are handwritten as well as in typescript, contain notations and deletions made by Eleanor Roosevelt after her husband's death.
Roosevelt maintained a large correspondence with family members, often writing diary-like letters. Other significant family correspondence includes the letters he exchanged with his father concerning political events, particularly after 1903.
Correspondence of Theodore and Eleanor Butler Roosevelt with prominent associates and friends is contained chiefly in the Special Correspondence series. Among their numerous correspondents are Joseph and Stewart Alsop, William Edgar Borah, Pearl S. Buck, Chiang Kai-shek, Calvin Coolidge, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Felix Frankfurter, Robert Frost, Edward Grey, Warren G. Harding, Charles Dewey Hilles, Herbert Hoover, Frank Knox, Vachel Lindsay, Walter Lippmann, Douglas MacArthur, George C. Marshall, W. Somerset Maugham, John J. Pershing, Gifford Pinchot, Manuel Luis Quezon, Eleanor Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Elihu Root, Henry Lewis Stimson, Arthur H. Vandenberg, Walter Francis White, William Allen White, and Alexander Woollcott.
The General Correspondence and the Subject File contain much information about social, political, and intellectual currents in the 1920s and 1930s. Prohibition, military preparedness, "Cousin Franklin" (Franklin D. Roosevelt), political campaigns, socialism, and veterans' benefits are among the topics discussed. As a government official, military officer, and son of a former president, Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., received letters from ordinary citizens as well as prominent individuals. These letters and Roosevelt's replies constitute a rich source of information about the period.
Among the major facets of Roosevelt's career that are documented in the Subject File are his activities in organizing the American Legion in 1919; his role in the presidential election campaign of Leonard Wood, 1919-1920; his participation in the Washington Conference on the Limitation of Armament, 1921-1922; his race against Alfred Emanuel Smith for the governorship of New York, 1924; his expeditions to Africa and the Far East, 1924-1939; and his military participation in both world wars, which led to numerous medals and decorations, including the Croix de Guerre and (posthumously) the Congressional Medal of Honor.
Roosevelt was in much demand as a speaker and appeared before many veterans groups and political gatherings. During the period between the world wars, he regularly campaigned throughout the nation for Republican presidential nominees. The Speech, Article, and Book File contains the texts of many such speeches, as well as speech requests and comments. It also contains speeches and other material relating to his role as governor of Puerto Rico, 1929-1932, and governor general of the Philippines, 1932-1933. Roosevelt's many magazine articles of the 1920s and 1930s usually concerned travel, the out-of-doors, or World War I and are preserved in typescript form in the Speech, Article, and Book File. On the other hand, there is little more than correspondence to represent the many books he wrote, although there are drafts, reviews, clippings, legal papers, and research material relating to Eleanor Butler Roosevelt's book, Day Before Yesterday (1959).
The Miscellany file contains a variety of papers, including an autograph collection, items relating to the Roosevelt family, and typewritten transcripts of many letters from Theodore Roosevelt, Sr. and Jr., and Eleanor Butler Roosevelt. A fairly complete file of clippings on the activities of the two Theodore Roosevelts is located among the Printed Matter. Since the clippings are unmounted and in poor condition, photocopies are available for reader use.
Handwritten diaries and typescripts of diaries.
Letters sent and received.
Letters received, with enclosures, and copies of letters sent.
Correspondence of Theodore Roosevelt Jr., and Eleanor Butler Roosevelt with prominent individuals and friends.
Letters of congratulation to Theodore and Eleanor Butler Roosevelt on the marriage of their daughter, Grace, to William McMillan, and condolence letters to Eleanor Butler Roosevelt on the death of her husband, and her son Quentin.
Correspondence, supplemented by reports, transcriptions, copies of speeches, and printed material.
Holograph, typewritten, and bound volumes of speeches, with related correspondence, followed by articles and material relating to Day Before Yesterday by Eleanor Butler Roosevelt.
Holograph, typewritten, and printed material including guest lists, financial and household records, awards, certificates, and correspondence.
Newspaper clippings, photocopies of clippings, books, and monographs.
Letters to and from Theodore Roosevelt and one speech. Arranged by type of material.
The papers of John J. Sirica (1904-1992) span the years 1932-1986 with the majority of the papers concentrated between 1957 and 1986. The bulk of the papers documents Sirica's career as judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, 1957-1986. The papers consist of six series: Correspondence, United States District Court File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, 2021 Addition, and Classified.
The Correspondence series, 1957-1986, includes incoming and outgoing correspondence relating mostly to Sirica's personal interests and activities, although some of the letters also pertain to his professional career. Also included are a few letters from Sirica to his son, John J. Sirica, Jr.
Documenting Sirica's thirty years of service as a federal trial judge, papers in the United States District Court File, 1952-1986, comprise almost seventy-five percent of the collection. The District Court File consists of five subseries: Personal Case Calendars, Correspondence, Case File, Bench Books, and Office File. The Personal Case Calendars, 1967-1970, and Correspondence, 1968-1985, document some of the administrative functions of the court and Sirica's professional duties. The case calendars occasionally have notations about personal appointments.
The Case File subseries, 1952-1986, includes correspondence and memoranda, chiefly between Sirica and other judges, lawyers, the court clerk, and staff, as well as extensive legal material such as opinions, orders, motions, briefs, and transcripts. Papers in this subseries consist mainly of photocopies rather than original items and are organized by category into Watergate cases and other cases. Making up the bulk of the case files, the Watergate files provide extensive documentation of the court proceedings relating to the 1972 break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate apartment complex (United States v. Liddy) and the cover-up of the burglary by high ranking government officials, including the president of the United States (United States v. Mitchell). In addition, there are related cases involving the subpoena of documents and tapes from President Richard M. Nixon and the transfer of grand jury reports to the House of Representatives' Judiciary Committee (In re Grand Jury Subpoena Duces Tecum to Nixon and In re Report and Recommendation of June 5, 1972 Grand Jury Concerning Transmission of Evidence to the House of Representatives).
The remaining case files indicate the variety of cases heard by Sirica on antitrust matters, constitutional law, civil rights, government regulations, and other issues. Many of these files are incomplete and often contain only one or two items, except for two antitrust cases (electrical equipment cases and Riss & Co. v. Association of Am. R.R.) and the murder trial of Robert Louis Ammidown (United States v. Ammidown).
The final two subseries of the United States District Court File consist of Bench Books and an Office File. The Bench Book subseries, 1957-1983, contains Sirica's notes about the cases which came before his court. The Office File subseries, 1954-1986, relates to Sirica's administrative and professional duties. This subseries also documents some of the many awards and honors Sirica received throughout his career.
Papers in the Speeches and Writings File, 1949-1986, pertain mainly to Sirica's book on Watergate, To Set the Record Straight: the Break-in, the Tapes, the Conspirators, the Pardon. Also worthy of mention is a file containing the beginning pages of an autobiography.
The Miscellany series, 1932-1985, consists chiefly of material documenting Sirica's private legal practice and his service as general counsel, 1944, to the Select Committee to Investigate the Federal Communications Commission. In addition, the Miscellany series contains correspondence, 1953-1982, documenting the judge's friendship with former heavyweight boxing champion Jack Dempsey.
Among the more significant and frequent of Sirica's correspondents are Tom C. Clark, Jack Dempsey, Sam J. Ervin, Bernard F. Gimbel, J. Edgar Hoover, Leon Jaworski, Frank Minis Johnson, Milton S. Kronheim, Norman Lear, John V. Lindsay, James W. McCord, Jr., James F. Neal, Richard M. Nixon, E. Barrett Prettyman, Jr., William P. Rogers, Frank Sinatra, and John J. Wilson.
The 2021 Addition, 1973-1978, consists of diaries kept by Sirica containing daily entries and observations, largely relating to the Watergate Affair. Also included is a copy of President Richard M. Nixon's memoir, lightly annotated by Sirica.
Correspondence and memoranda, including attachments and enclosures, between Sirica and family, friends, lawyers, judges, acquaintances, and the general public.
Calendars maintained by Sirica's staff documenting the day-to-day business of Sirica's court and his other administrative duties.
Correspondence and memoranda between Sirica and lawyers, judges, court staff, and the general public relating to his activities as a federal district judge.
Correspondence, memoranda, bench books, opinions, orders, briefs, motions, transcripts, dockets, stipulations, interrogatories, reports, notes, lists, printed matter, and other legal papers pertaining to Sirica's professional activities. A systematic sample was taken of the Watergate public correspondence; fifteen percent of that correspondence was retained.
Bound volumes containing Sirica's notes about cases that came before his court.
Correspondence, memoranda, background information, invitations, jury instructions, notes, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, research material, book drafts, book reviews, articles, notes, financial and legal papers, and printed matter relating chiefly to Sirica's post-Watergate speeches and writings.
Correspondence, memoranda, case files, family papers, financial and legal papers, background information, and printed matter relating primarily to Sirica's early career as a lawyer.
Diaries containing daily entries and general observations, largely relating to the Watergate Affair. Topics covered include court proceedings, jury selection, planning for deposition of President Richard M. Nixon, sentencing, autobiography drafts and notes, meetings and events, and Nixon's televised interview with David Frost. Also included is a lightly annotated copy of Nixon's memoir.
Government classified documents containing sensitive security information.
The papers of Harold Hitz Burton (1888-1964) span the years 1792 to 1965, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1935 to 1964. The collection includes diaries, correspondence, reports, legal case files, speeches and writings, newspaper clippings, and printed matter relating chiefly to Burton's service as associate justice of the Supreme Court and United States senator from Ohio. The material is organized in the following series: Diaries, General Correspondence, Senate File, Supreme Court File, United States Court of Appeals File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, Classified, and Oversize.
Burton's diaries begin in 1941 and continue through 1963 covering his service as senator and associate justice. They are a rich and comprehensive record of his personal activities, the work of the Supreme Court, and conversations with members of the Court and numerous other government figures.
The General Correspondence briefly treats Burton's life and career in Cleveland, Ohio, prior to his election to the United States Senate. During this period he practiced law, was active in community activities, and served in various city government offices climaxing in his election as mayor. Notable topics in the correspondence are community affairs, family matters, Burton's association with local and statewide Republican party affairs, aspirations for a federal judgeship, and the Townsend Plan. Correspondents include Owen Brewster, John W. Bricker, Burton's personal secretary Earl E. Hart, William Hitz, and Robert A. Taft. This period of Burton's career is documented additionally by political speeches and radio broadcasts in the Speeches and Writings File.
The Senate File represents Burton's one term in the United States Senate where he established himself as a moderate Republican. He served on several Senate committees, including the Special Committee Investigating the National Defense Program which brought him into close contact with its chairman, Harry S. Truman. Burton later would become President Truman's first appointee to the Supreme Court. The Committees file documents his work on this committee and his extensive travels to Alaska, the West Coast, and the Middle East. Other committees represented in the file include Immigration, District of Columbia, Commerce, and Appropriations. The correspondence for the Senate years is grouped into four types: campaign, departments and agencies, general, and legislative. The campaign correspondence relates to party workers and organizations throughout Ohio during his Senate election in 1940. Correspondence with government departments and agencies includes appeals for constituents, especially for those in military service. Burton's legislative interests included hospital construction, foreign relations, and establishment of the United Nations. Noteworthy in the general correspondence are copies of Burton's semiannual constituent reports and accompanying responses. Correspondents include Styles Bridges, Harry Flood Byrd (1887-1966), Frank J. Lausche, Donald R. Richberg, Harry S. Truman, and Henry Agard Wallace.
The Supreme Court File documents the judicial activities of Burton and his fellow justices from 1945 to 1958. Material covering this aspect of his career is organized by correspondence, a case file, and a miscellany file. Among the legal material and correspondence are letters, notes, and memoranda from the various members of the Court, most frequently Felix Frankfurter. Others justices represented, some in the correspondence file and others in notes and memoranda retained in the legal files, are chief justices Harlan F. Stone, Fred M. Vinson, and Earl Warren and associate justices William J. Brennan, Tom C. Clark, William O. Douglas, John M. Harlan, Robert H. Jackson, Sherman Minton, Frank Murphy, Stanley F. Reed, and Charles E. Whittaker. Other correspondents include Owen Brewster, John W. Bricker, J. Edgar Hoover, and Harry S. Truman.
The Supreme Court case file contains conference lists, docket sheets with conference votes and brief notes on the justices' positions, bench and certiorari memoranda prepared by Burton's law clerks for study and recommendation, opinions, and studies on individual cases. Though not a prolific opinion writer, Burton saved most of the drafts of the various stages of his opinions along with comments in memoranda or actual annotations by his colleagues on the Court on their copies of opinions which they returned to him. Burton generally retained files on an average of ten to fifteen cases per term, usually the ones in which he wrote a majority, dissenting, or concurring opinion. His specific fields of interest, and the areas in which he was frequently assigned to write the majority opinions, were labor law and state claims versus federal claims. Included in his case files is material related to such landmark cases as Standard Oil v. Federal Trade Commission (October term 1949), for which he wrote the majority opinion, the steel company case Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company v. Sawyer (October term 1952), for which he wrote a concurring opinion, and Brown v. Board of Education (October Term 1953), in which the Court's unanimous opinion was expressed by Chief Justice Earl Warren. A miscellany file in the Supreme Court File includes bound copies of Burton's opinions and official statements from the bench, miscellaneous notes and memoranda from other justices, handwritten notes on Supreme Court history and its previous decisions, Court budgets and statistics, material pertaining to rules for federal courts, hearing lists, case assignments, and moot court competitions.
Upon retiring from the Court in 1958, Burton frequently sat on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, where he was active until his health failed in 1962. The United States Court of Appeals File documents the cases in which he wrote opinions for this court as well as other cases in which he participated. The opinions are similar to those for the individual cases on the Supreme Court, although less in number and in detail.
The Speeches and Writings File covers all periods of Burton's career and contains handwritten and typed drafts and printed copies of his articles, speeches, and statements. A group of articles relates to the Supreme Court and its history, and political speeches document Burton's tenure as mayor of Cleveland. Although the subject file in the series contains speeches and articles as well as pertinent research material covering his years in Cleveland, the Senate, and the Court, a chronological file contains the most comprehensive compilation of Burton's speeches and writings.
The Miscellany series is composed primarily of newspaper clippings and printed matter related to Burton's career and interests. A set of unbound scrapbooks of autographed material includes letters from Harry S. Truman and members of the Supreme Court. Also included is biographical material and genealogical information on the Hitz family. Oversize material includes maps pertaining to Burton's trips with the Senate Special Committee Investigating the National Defense Program, broadsides, and photographs.
Bound volumes.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Reports, memoranda, correspondence, maps, and printed matter.
Campaign material, election statistics, reports, minutes, legal files, voting record, and petitions.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Printed, typed and handwritten copies of opinions, copies of circulated opinions, memoranda by justices and law clerks (including bench and certiorari memoranda), briefs, notes, transcripts, reports, docket sheets, and conference lists.
Printed and bound opinions, statements from the bench, notes, lists, Court budgets and statistics, hearing lists, case assignments, notes and memoranda from other justices, correspondence, reports, and newsletters.
Printed, typed, and handwritten copies of opinions, circulated opinions, notes, briefs, memoranda, reports, and transcripts.
Handwritten, typed, and printed copies of articles, speeches, statements, and radio broadcasts, a book, notes, printed matter, and research material.
Appointment calendars, biographical and family material, newspaper clippings, notes, reports, minutes, printed matter, and scrapbooks.
Reports and correspondence.
Broadsides, maps, photographs, and bound material.
The papers of Robert Houghwout Jackson (1892-1954) span the years 1816-1983, with most of the material concentrated in the period 1934-1954. The collection consists of twelve series: Family Papers, General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Legal File, Biographical File, Financial Papers, Miscellany, Photographs, Additions, Oversize, and Classified.
Although the papers present a comprehensive record of Robert Jackson's life dating from his school days, the Legal File series dominates the collection. The earliest of the papers relates to the private law practice which he established in 1913 in Jamestown, New York, and represents a period of twenty-one years of legal service in western New York. The bulk of the law practice material pertains to cases in which Jackson was involved as counsel to the Jamestown Telephone Company, the Jamestown Westfield and Northwestern Railroad Company, Jamestown Worsted Mills, and the Niagara, Lockport and Ontario Power Company. The papers also contain a few smaller files on other cases, including Lyle P. Gates v. Prudential Insurance Company, the typhoid carrier case which received extensive coverage by the Jamestown press.
Jackson's appointment as assistant general counsel at the Bureau of Internal Revenue in 1934 was the beginning of a seven-year career as a law officer with the United States government. During his years at the Bureau of Internal Revenue, he received national attention for his prosecution of a case against Andrew Mellon. Copies of many of the documents and material assembled for this litigation are included among these papers. The Bureau of Internal Revenue files also contain studies on the concentration of wealth by individuals and corporations in which wealth is related to the amount of income taxes paid. Jackson's files also document his support of the Revenue Act of 1935. For a brief period during his service with the Bureau, Jackson was detailed to the Securities and Exchange Commission to act as special counsel in the trial of cases arising under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. A small file relating to the Electric Bond and Share Company, chosen as a test case, is among Jackson's legal papers.
From 1936 to 1941, Jackson served with the Justice Department as assistant attorney general of the Tax and Antitrust divisions, solicitor general, and attorney general. Although only a small number of papers remain in the collection from his service with the Tax Division, they include a significant file relating to several cases challenging the constitutionality of the Social Security Act. The office files from Jackson's other Justice Department appointments are more voluminous and reflect his working relationship with Franklin D. Roosevelt in the implementation of New Deal programs and in the preparation of contingency plans for the anticipated effects of the outbreak of war in Europe. Among the prominent anti-monopoly cases prosecuted by Justice Department offices under Jackson's aegis were those concerning identical bids for steel products, automobile financing by automobile manufacturers who financed automobile purchases through companies which they controlled, the manipulation of oil prices, control of the aluminum industry by the Aluminum Company of America, operations of fuel and utility companies, and practices within the milk and motion picture industries. Numerous files of the solicitor general and attorney general offices focus on topics relating to the impact of World War II on the American economy, military preparedness, and national defense. They encompass such issues as aircraft production, gathering of intelligence information, immigration and naturalization matters, investigations of subversive activities by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the House Committee on Un-American Activities, operation of the selective service system, price stabilization and economic controls, registration of aliens and treatment of alien property, regulation of foreign cargo vessels in American ports, taxation of excess profits earned by companies producing war materials, trade embargoes, and United States neutrality.
In addition, Jackson's Justice Department files depict his role in drafting the president's messages to Congress, particularly the anti-monopoly message, Roosevelt's veto of the Walter-Logan Bill, the tax message of 1938, and the state of the union message in 1940. They also reveal that Roosevelt sought Jackson's advice on proposed legislation, such as the reorganization of the federal judiciary in 1937, the enactment of a wages and hours bill, the Lend-Lease Act, and the destroyer exchange issue. Evidence of a more personal relationship between the two men can be found in memoranda and autobiographical notes by Jackson describing his meetings with the president.
The retirement of Charles Evans Hughes and the subsequent appointment of Harlan F. Stone as chief justice created a vacancy on the Supreme Court to which Roosevelt nominated Jackson in 1941. Jackson's papers are complete for his years on the court except for the 1945 term when he was United States Chief of Counsel at the Nuremberg Trials. The files of cases are arranged chronologically by October term and contain summaries of the issues prepared by Jackson's law clerks, drafts of opinions, circulated opinions, final opinions, correspondence and memoranda exchanged between the justices, correspondence from the public, and printed matter. An alphabetical card file index to the cases is included at the end of the papers. Except for 1946, Jackson did not maintain separate docket books for the court terms; instead, pages from docket books are generally incorporated in the case files.
The Supreme Court papers include some of Jackson's most famous opinions, such as the Jehovah's Witness cases involving civil liberties (Board of Educ. v. Barnette, Douglas v. Jeannette, Martin v. Struthers, Murdock v. Pennsylvania); cases growing out of World War II concerning treason and the treatment of Japanese (Korematsu v. United States, Cramer v. United States, Haupt v. United States, and Terminiello v. Chicago); those pertaining to the Communist Party (Dennis v. United States, American Communications Ass'n v. Douds); those involving taxing powers of states (State Tax Comm'n of Utah v. Aldrich, Helvering v. Griffiths, District of Columbia v. Pace, Massachusetts v. United States, Wheeling Steel Corp. v. Glander); and cases concerning use of public funds for support of parochial or private schools and segregation of public school systems (Everson v. Board of Educ., Illinois ex rel. McCollom v. Board of Educ., Brown v. Board of Educ.). The segregation cases heard by the Court in 1954 are treated as a group filed with Oliver Brown v. Board of Education, Shawnee County, Topeka, Kansas. Except for the case file on the Jewell Ridge Coal Corporation case, all papers relating to the controversy over Jackson's statement about Justice Hugo LaFayette Black's failure to recuse himself from that case and cases involving his former law partner are found in the Subject File series and in the Supreme Court correspondence file in the office files of the United States chief of counsel in the Nuremberg War Crimes Trial papers.
In 1945, following a speech by Jackson denouncing the criminal acts of the Nazis, he was contacted by Samuel Rosenman on behalf of President Harry S. Truman and asked to head the United States team for the prosecution of Axis war criminals. The Nuremberg War Crimes Trial papers in the Jackson collection consist of personal copies of many documents assembled for and during the course of the trial and papers sent to Jackson after October 1946 when Telford Taylor was United States Chief of Counsel. The subseries also includes correspondence and selected printed matter written by staff members for several years immediately following the trial. The official records of the trial are housed in the National Archives.
Among the more interesting papers found in the Nuremberg materials is the diary Jackson kept from the day of his appointment to the day preceding the beginning of the trial. Jackson incorporated several of the original documents mentioned in his entries among the pages of the diary. His papers also contain original shorthand notes made by his secretary, Elsie Douglas, during the London Conference of 1945, where the protocol for the trial was drafted and agreed upon. The office files for the United States Chief of Counsel reveal the planning and logistics of handling, assembling, and disseminating the vast amount of material generated by the trial, the methods of resolving problems caused by differences between American and European criminal procedure, and the working relationship between the military and civilian trial staff members. An extensive number of photographs concerning the trial is filed in the Photograph series.
The Subject File and the Speeches and Writings File focus on Jackson's unofficial activities with law societies and bar associations, service on special committees, speeches and attendance at annual, national, and regional meetings, law school student bar association programs and moot court competitions, and extensive writings on legal subjects. Although Jackson never sought political office, his support of the Democratic Party is demonstrated by numerous speeches, particularly in Jamestown and the presidential campaigns of 1936 and 1940. The Subject File series also documents Jackson's contribution to the Democratic Party platforms of 1936 and 1940. Letters in the General Correspondence series attest to his friendship with members of the legal profession, professors of law at various universities, and acquaintances from his years in Jamestown. Letters exchanged between members of the family generally concern routine family news, genealogical records, or memorials to Jackson. Letters written by Jackson and his son, William E. Jackson, during 1945 and 1946 contain comments and personal assessments of the meetings of the London Conference, describe social activities of staff members, and discuss the accomplishments of the trial at Nuremberg.
The Biographical File contains an autobiography started by Jackson in 1944 which covers his life through his appointment as attorney general. The second item, "Justice Jackson's Story," is the transcript of a series of oral history interviews conducted by Harlan B. Phillips of the Oral History Research Office at Columbia University between January 1952 and February 1953. The biographical papers are complemented by clippings in the Miscellany series and scrapbooks located in the Oversize series documenting Jackson's life and professional career from 1910.
The Addition series, 1940-1955, consists of two parts supplementing the first installment of the Jackson Papers. Addition I contains correspondence concerning Jackson's daughter, Mary Jackson Loftus Craighill, legal material pertaining to the Nuremberg War Crimes Trial, and a program and facsimile souvenir. The file of Nuremberg documents consists of a typescript release and a German edition of Jackson's opening statement of the trial as chief of counsel for the United States and a translated copy of Adolph Hitler's will. The program and a facsimile of Behind the Ballots (1938) relate to a testimonial dinner for James Aloysius Farley in 1940. Addition II consists of a nine-volume edited oral history transcript, "The Reminiscences of Robert H. Jackson," based on the interviews conducted by Harlan B. Phillips for the Columbia University Oral History Research Office. An earlier draft of this transcript, "Justice Jackson's Story," is located in the first segment of the papers. This later edited oral history includes an index.
Correspondents in the Jackson Papers include Sidney S. Alderman, Thurman Wesley Arnold, Wendell Berge, John L. Blair, Ernest Cawcroft, Homer S. Cummings, Gordon E. Dean, William O. Douglas, John E. Durkin, Charles Fairman, Felix Frankfurter, Whitney R. Harris, J. Edgar Hoover, Charles A. Horsky, Robert M. W. Kempner, Arthur Alden Kimball, Alfred A. Knopf, Frank Murphy, C. George Niebank, Stanley Forman Reed, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Charles B. Sears, Robert G. Storey, Herbert Bayard Swope, Telford Taylor, Philip J. Wickser, and John H. Wright.
Appointment books, correspondence, diary, genealogical records, and clippings.
Letters received and copies of letters sent with attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, and printed matter.
Speeches, articles, drafts, speech notes and outlines, book reviews, poems, related correspondence, and printed matter.
Affidavits, briefs, collected data, correspondence, general office files, memoranda, petitions, opinions, and printed matter.
Draft of autobiography, transcript of oral history interviews, drafts of chapters from published biographies, biographical sketches, and related correspondence.
Accounts, correspondence, financial statements, income tax records, insurance papers, investment records, real estate papers, and miscellaneous lists and notes.
Appointment calendars, awards, honors, tributes, calling cards, financial papers, index card files, inventories of the collection, memorials, memorabilia, social invitations, and printed matter.
Photographs, albums, and a photographic plate.
Correspondence, will, statement, program, and a facsimile of a book.
An oral history transcript documenting reminiscences of Jackson's life.
Oversize certificates of appointments and awards, degrees, plot drawings, photographs, and scrapbooks.
One document containing national security information.
The papers of Joseph L. Rauh, Jr. (1911-1992), span the years 1913-2008, with the majority of the items concentrated between 1950 and 1984. The bulk of the papers documents Rauh's career as a public interest lawyer who handled cases pertaining chiefly to civil rights, civil liberties, and labor disputes. Also interfiled throughout the collection are a few papers of his law partners, John Silard and Elliott C. Lichtman. There are five parts and a restricted portion.
Part I of the Rauh Papers consist of eight series: Personal Correspondence, General Correspondence, Americans for Democratic Action File, Hubert H. Humphrey Campaign File, Subject File, Legal File, Appointment Books, and Miscellany.
Papers in the Personal Correspondence series, 1938-1988, and General Correspondence series, 1949-1980, consist of incoming and outgoing correspondence pertaining to Rauh's legal cases and to social and political issues that interested him, particularly civil rights, civil liberties, and labor. The General Correspondence pertains mostly to Rauh's legal cases, while the Personal Correspondence relates principally to his private interests. There is a great deal of similar material in both series, however, since he supported several causes both publicly and privately. Because the two series overlap, some of the same correspondents and many of the same topics appear in both. Each series includes correspondence between Rauh and his family, friends, acquaintances, and the general public, although family correspondence is limited and appears mostly in the early years of the Personal Correspondence series. Personal Correspondence files from 1946 to 1949 have indexes appearing at the beginning of each folder which list correspondents and, at times, topics. General Correspondence from 1973 to 1980 consists primarily of outgoing letters. The correspondence is filed in the same arrangement in which it was transferred to the Library.
The Americans for Democratic Action (ADA) File, 1949-1976, documents Rauh's activities as a member and officeholder of this political advocacy group. The papers document Rauh's activities as an organizer, public speaker, and fund-raiser. In addition, he testified about a wide variety of issues on ADA's behalf before many congressional committees. The papers further document Rauh's and the organization's position on civil rights, foreign and domestic policy, government loyalty/security measures, communism, civil liberties, national political campaigns, and other issues. Rauh and the ADA worked to defeat the attempt by Henry Wallace and his Progressive Party to assume the leadership of American liberalism in 1948. Rauh and the ADA were also active in moving civil rights to the center of the liberal agenda and in inserting a civil rights plank into the platform of the Democratic party. Rauh was also one of the first to object to the tactics used by Senator Joseph McCarthy and the House Un-American Activities Committee. The ADA files further reflect Rauh's efforts in behalf of civil rights and encouraging an anti-Vietnam War position within the Democratic party in 1967. Additional ADA-related correspondence appears in the Personal and General Correspondence files.
The Hubert H. Humphrey Campaign File, 1956-1963, pertains to Humphrey's unsuccessful 1960 presidential campaign. Rauh, vice chairman of the Democratic Central Committee in the District of Columbia in 1959-1960 and a close friend of Humphrey, campaigned actively on the senator's behalf. The papers relate primarily to Rauh's fund-raising activities and plans for campaign strategy.
Papers in the Subject File, 1944-1988, document Rauh's activities and interests in affirmative action, civil rights, civil liberties, labor issues, union democracy, politics, and other issues. The papers show Rauh's active support in the Democratic party for civil rights and party reform. In addition, they reflect his role in the formulation and enactment of civil rights legislation. There are files containing correspondence and material that Rauh used to oppose the Supreme Court nominations of Clement F. Haynsworth and G. Harrold Carswell. Also included are files pertaining to Rauh's unsuccessful fight against William H. Rehnquist's nomination to the Court and his subsequent elevation to chief justice. These papers also document Rauh's participation in attempts, 1950-1975, to curb the use of the filibuster in the Senate. Papers related to his support for home rule in the District of Columbia are located in the District of Columbia, Democratic Central Committee files.
The Legal File, 1948-1986, constitutes the majority of the collection and consist chiefly of case files of Rauh's clients. Many of these cases are public service ones in which Rauh defended underrepresented groups and interests. Most of the cases pertain to civil rights, rights of trade unions, such as the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters and the United Auto Workers, abuses of the federal loyalty/security programs, and other civil liberties issues. Two of Rauh's notable clients were Lillian Hellman, whom he represented before the House Un-American Activities Committee, and the members of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. For the latter he won a symbolic offer of two seats for the Freedom Party at the 1964 Democratic National Convention, thereby ending the seating of segregated delegations. A letter to Rauh from Arthur Miller in which Miller describes his reaction to Marilyn Monroe's death is located in Jacobo Muchnik's file. A large miscellany subseries is composed of briefs, writs, and congressional committee prints concerning cases that Rauh handled.
The final two series include Appointment Books, 1955-1986, and Miscellany, 1913-1988. The Appointment Books series consist of calendars recording Rauh's personal and business engagements. Papers in the Miscellany series are chiefly speeches, writings, interviews, and Rauh's letters to newspaper and magazine editors concerning his positions on various legal, political, and social issues.
Part II, a 1989 addition to the Rauh Papers, consists chiefly of correspondence and legal papers relating to Orlikow v. United States, a case in which Rauh represented Velma Orlikow and eight other defendants who were brainwashed without their knowledge or consent at the Allan Memorial Institute in Montreal, Canada. Experiments were performed on the patients by psychiatrist Ewen Cameron, who was funded from 1958 until 1960 by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
Part III, a 1994 addition complementing Rauh's papers received in previous installments, includes personal correspondence, subject files, legal files, speeches, and writings. The subject files document Rauh's activities and interests in civil rights, politics, and the Supreme Court. Almost all of the legal files relate to Orlikow v. United States.
Part IV, a 1999 addition, also supplements previous installments of the Rauh Papers and includes personal correspondence, subject files, legal files, oral history interviews, speeches, writings, and letters of condolence to Rauh's wife, Olie, upon his death in 1992. The subject files relate primarily to Rauh's interest in civil rights and the Supreme Court. Wage and hour legislation files from 1939 to 1942 chronicle Rauh's service as counsel to the Department of Labor. Prominent correspondents in Part IV include Benjamin N. Cardozo, Benjamin V. Cohen, and Felix Frankfurter.
Part V, a 2015 addition, features some topics and time periods common to other parts of the Rauh Papers. It includes correspondence, legal files, speeches and writings, family papers, oral history interviews, press and magazine articles about Rauh, and files relating to his death. The majority of the addition relates to correspondence and legal papers pertaining to Rauh's client, William Walter Remington. Rauh defended Remington against charges of perjury resulting from his denial under oath that he had participated in a Soviet espionage ring and that he had been a member of the Communist Party. Remington was convicted of perjury and murdered in prison. The correspondence also includes some letters to Rauh's wife, Olie Westheimer Rauh.
Other prominent and frequent correspondents in the collection include Carl A. Auerbach, William J. Brennan (1906-1997), Paul H. Douglas, Felix Frankfurter, Jack Greenberg, Aaron Henry, Edward D. Hollander, Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Edward M. Kennedy, James I. Loeb, Eugene J. McCarthy, Walter Reuther, Eleanor Roosevelt, Arthur Meier Schlesinger (1917-), James A. Wechsler, Roy Wilkins, and Joseph Yablonski.
Correspondence and memoranda between Rauh and his family, friends, acquaintances, and the public documenting Rauh's public and personal interests.
Correspondence and memoranda between Rauh and his friends, acquaintances, family, clients, and the public pertaining to legal matters and social and political interests, particularly labor, labor unions, civil rights, and civil liberties.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, reports, speeches, press releases, pamphlets, financial and policy statements, lists of members, resolutions, newspaper clippings, and other printed matter pertaining to Rauh's activities in ADA.
Correspondence, memoranda, press releases, speeches, photographs, pamphlets, programs, reports, invitations, newspaper clippings, and other material documenting Rauh's role in Humphrey's 1960 presidential campaign.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal briefs and writs, reports, minutes of meetings, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material concerning Rauh's activities and interests in civil rights, civil liberties, labor issues, politics, and other issues.
Correspondence, depositions, memoranda, briefs, writs, petitions, photographs, reports, transcripts, and printed matter pertaining to Rauh's legal cases.
Appointment books recording Rauh's personal and business activities.
Correspondence, memoranda, award certificates, articles, book reviews, interviews, photographs, speeches, newspaper clippings, printed matter, a scrapbook, and other material.
Correspondence, memoranda, depositions, briefs, writs, petitions, transcripts, reports, medical records, and printed matter pertaining to the case Orlikow v. United States.
Correspondence and memoranda between Rauh and his friends, acquaintances, and the public.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal papers, reports, notes, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, briefs, opinions, petitions, notes, reports, medical records, financial papers, and printed matter pertaining to Rauh's legal cases.
Correspondence, memoranda, articles, book reviews, letters to editors, speeches, printed matter, and other items.
Correspondence and memoranda between Rauh and his friends, acquaintances, and the public, including attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal papers, reports, speeches, notes, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, and printed matter pertaining to the case Orlikow v. United States.
Correspondence, memoranda, articles, book reviews, speeches, transcripts of oral history interviews, printed matter, and other items.
Correspondence, memoranda, briefs and legal papers, interviews, reports, speeches and writings, photographs, family papers, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
A restricted item.
The papers of Herbert Arthur Philbrick (1915-1993) span the years 1849-1997, with the bulk of the material dating from 1940 to 1993. They relate primarily to Philbrick's interests and activities as a leading anticommunist spokesman from the 1950s through the early 1970s whose concern with the threat of communism continued until his death. Philbrick became a public figure in 1949 when he was a government witness in the trial of eleven leaders of the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) indicted for violation of the Smith Act. During his testimony, Philbrick revealed that for the previous nine years he had functioned as an undercover agent, serving as an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) while an active member of the CPUSA. He subsequently wrote an autobiography, I Led 3 Lives: Citizen, “Communist,” Counterspy, which became the basis of a television series in the 1950s. In addition to documenting Philbrick's life and activities, his papers are a source of information on the anticommunist movement in general featuring prominent individuals and organizations and containing correspondence, newsletters, and press clippings from throughout the country. The collection is organized in ten series: General Correspondence, Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA), I Led 3 Lives, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, 2001 Addition, 2023 Addition, Oversize, and Top Secret.
The General Correspondence series consists primarily of letters received by Philbrick, with copies of some of his outgoing correspondence. Although correspondence relating to specific activities or individuals is filed by topic in other series, this series contains correspondence from friends, colleagues, and the general public filed by date. Frequent topics include communism, religion, reactions to Philbrick's lectures and writings, and comments on specific events and individuals.
The Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) series focuses on Philbrick's activities in the party, particularly in the New England area. A section on the Federal Bureau of Investigation contains reports to the agency in which Philbrick, often using the pseudonym “George Lockwood,” described activities of organizations in Massachusetts that were controlled by communists and provided accounts of the events, meetings, and individuals he dealt with when he joined the Young Communist League, the Communist Party, and the Education Commission of the Massachusetts Communist Party. Organizations mentioned include the Cambridge Youth Council, American Youth for Democracy, the Massachusetts Political Action Committee, and the Progressive Citizens of America. Events described include the congressional campaign of Anthony M. Roche and the presidential campaign of Henry Agard Wallace.
A party activities section in the series contains correspondence, pamphlets, fliers, and other material collected or created by Philbrick. His assignments often involved using his advertising experience and printing skills in his work for the party, and he would collect and send the FBI copies of the materials he created and printed. A testimony section relates to remarks Philbrick made to a number of investigating bodies from 1949 to 1967 regarding communists and their activities in the United States, including testimony in United States District Court in the trial of United States v. William Z. Foster and at hearings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, the Senate Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee to Investigate the Administration of the Internal Security Act and Other Security Laws, and the Massachusetts Special Commission to Study and Investigate Communism and Subversive Activities and Related Matters in the Commonwealth.
The series related to I Led 3 Lives features Philbrick's autobiography and the various formats in which it appeared, including a book, newspaper serialization, and a television series. The largest sections relate to the book and the television series. The book section includes outlines, summaries, and sets of drafts. Documents indicate that Philbrick worked closely with Fendall Yerxa in the preparation of his autobiography. A serialized version of the book appeared first in the New York Herald Tribune. The television section contains material relating to the syndicated television series produced from 1953 to 1956 by Ziv Television Programs, Inc. in which Richard Carlson starred as Philbrick. Philbrick served as a technical consultant to the project, and the files contain plot outlines and comments he prepared as well as scripts sent to him for approval. Other material includes correspondence relating to personal appearances Philbrick made in support of the program.
The Subject File is the largest series in the collection and contains information on people, groups, and issues of interest to Philbrick, especially communism and the Cold War. Many of the most extensive files relate to his involvement with anticommunist, conservative, and religious organizations, such as America's Future, Constructive Action, the Council Against Communist Aggression, United States Anti-Communist Congress, U.S. Press Association, and Young Americans for Freedom. A major aspect of Philbrick's work with another such group, the Christian Anti-Communism Crusade and its leader, Frederick C. Schwarz, was his participation in their anticommunism schools. Additional material related to Philbrick's work with the schools is filed in a speaking engagements section of the Speeches and Writings series. A Federal Bureau of Investigation file contains correspondence and memoranda that Philbrick continued to send to the FBI in the years following his undercover work with the CPUSA. Related to this file are the folders on “Yankee,” a woman from Massachusetts who from 1952 to 1972 sent Philbrick information and documents relating to organizations spanning the political spectrum, much of which he sent on to the FBI. Significant correspondents in the Subject File include James D. Bales, J. Edgar Hoover, William Loeb, Arthur G. McDowell, Reinhold Niebuhr, Ogden R. Reid, Henry Agard Wallace, and Robert Henry Winborne Welch.
The Speeches and Writings series features Philbrick's writing projects and lectures. The largest sections relate to his newspaper columns and speeches. Philbrick wrote a newspaper column titled “Red Underground” for the New York Herald Tribune from 1952 to 1958. A list of topics serves as an index to the columns. The Tribune files include responses from readers, attorneys, and individuals and organizations mentioned in the columns. The speeches section documents Philbrick's activities as a lecturer for over thirty years. Contracts, itineraries, and lecture requests indicate the types of groups that invited him to speak. The speaking engagements section contains correspondence, programs, and press coverage of his appearances. Titles of Philbrick's lectures include “Communism and Youth,” “The Christian Answer,” “Cybernetic Warfare,” “Red, White, and Pink,” and “Zero Hour for America.”
Another of Philbrick's writing projects was a series of newsletters sponsored by such organizations as Dollar Federal Savings and Loan of Columbus, Ohio, and the Schick Razor Company. Topics include Philbrick's concerns about the international communist conspiracy, the assassination of John F. Kennedy, and the Vietnam War. Articles by Philbrick were often reprinted in the various newsletters. Drafts and background material for the newsletters are filed under Dollar Hollar. Also in the Speeches and Writings series are articles, book reviews, letters to editors, childhood diaries, and unpublished and incomplete book projects on communism and religion and the assassination of President Kennedy.
The Miscellany series contains personal and family material as well as files relating to appearances by Philbrick on film, television, and radio. Press clippings in the biographical material section describe activities and events in Philbrick's life and provide clues as to which files throughout the collection have a direct connection to Philbrick. Included among the film, television, and radio material are files on Philbrick's own television projects, Red Report and World War III. Office files contain memoranda and draft correspondence that he prepared for staff while he was away on lecture tours. Card files include information on various people, many of whom Philbrick suspected of having communist connections. Legal files contain material related to a lawsuit between Philbrick and his attorney, Moses Frankel, who had worked as his agent in the 1950s and who negotiated his book and television deals. Family material includes items relating to his father, Guy Philbrick, a railroad trainman, and to Herbert Philbrick's second wife, Shirley.
The 2001 Addition consists of material received after the processing of the main portion of the Philbrick Papers was completed. It supplements each of the series and its arrangement reflects the organization of those series: general correspondence, Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA), I Led 3 Lives, subject file, speeches and writings, and miscellany. Items that complement the existing material include a scrapbook of press clippings relating to Philbrick's 1949 testimony in the Smith Act trials of communist leaders and files relating to his revised edition of I Led 3 Lives: Citizen, "Communist," Counterspy.
The 2023 Addition supplements the general correspondence series and the speeches and writings series from both the original portion and the 2001 Addition. This addition also includes scripts and research materials for thirty-five broadcasts of Philbrick's radio program, Let Freedom Ring. Additional material includes a small amount of biographical material, material related to church acitivities, and photographs of Philbrick.
Letters received and sent.
Reports, correspondence, handbills, transcripts, notes, newspaper clippings, and other printed matter relating to Philbrick's activities within the Communist Party, his work as an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and his testimony regarding American communism.
Drafts, scripts, correspondence, memoranda, contracts, and notes relating to the book, television series, newspaper serialization, and other projects based on Philbrick's autobiography.
Correspondence, memoranda, newsletters, reports, newspaper clippings, notes, pamphlets, and other printed matter.
Holograph and typewritten manuscripts, speeches, notes and jottings, research notes, related correspondence, itineraries, contracts, and newspaper clippings.
Appointment books, calendars, correspondence, memoranda, legal material, financial material, family papers, scripts, card files, press clippings, and printed material.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, writings, notes, scripts, newsletters, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, and printed matter.
Correspondence, scripts, notes, promotional material, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Scrapbook of newspaper clippings.
One memorandum.
Parts I and II
Parts I and II of the papers of Edward L. Bernays span the years 1890-1979, with the bulk of the material within the period 1920 to 1975. The papers consist mainly of correspondence, publicity material, and scrapbooks, supplemented by surveys, reports, printed matter, memoranda, research notes, photographs, lists, speeches, articles, drafts of books, and miscellaneous material. Series include Family Correspondence; General Correspondence; Client, Institution, and Organization File; Speech and Article File; Book File; Edward L. Bernays' Foundation File; Doris Fleischman Bernays File; Lists; Miscellany; Scrapbooks; Speeches and Writings File; and Oversize.
Recording the work of more than half a century, the collection documents not only the career of a pioneer in the public relations field, but also the origins, growth, and development of public relations as a profession in the United States from its beginnings before World War I to its present state of influence in American life. The collection further reflects the changing mores of American society from the early 1900s through the 1960s.
A guide to much of the material in the collection can be found in Bernays's Biography of an Idea: Memoirs of Public Relations Counsel Edward L. Bernays. This volume is derived for the most part from material found in the collection. Especially helpful for subjects touched upon in the book are research notes in the Book File series prepared for use in Bernays's memoirs but not completely incorporated into the final version. In most cases these notes present a capsule summary of Bernays's relationship with the particular subject in question.
Bernays's professional career began during the World War I period and is extensively documented in the Client, Institution, and Organization File of Part I; the Client, Institution, and Organization File subseries of the Part I: Scrapbooks series; and the Oversize series of Part I. Some of the earliest material covers Diaghileff's Ballets Russes, containing correspondence and oversized scrapbooks. For the 1920s, there is material on the arts, clients such as Cartier and Seligmann & Company, and the French industrial exposition of 1925. Industrial subjects include George W. Hill and the American Tobacco Company, the soap sculpture contests of Procter & Gamble, George H. Phelps and the automotive industry, Philco and Columbia Broadcasting Company's activities in the burgeoning radio industry, William B. Ward and the bread industry, the Light's Golden Jubilee recreating in 1929 the birth of the electric light by Thomas A. Edison, and many others.
Material on the stock market crash records its effects on the American economy. The Depression is reflected in files about President Herbert Hoover's Committee on Employment, the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care, and the plight of the construction industry, which are located in the Part I: Client, Institution, and Organization File. The corporate activities of such companies as Allied Chemical & Dye Corporation and General Motors and the fight of Amadeo Peter Giannini and the Bank of America against government control are also featured for this period. Files on the United Brewers Industrial Foundation depict the brewing industry's adjustment to the post-prohibition era.
World War II files in the Client, Institution, and Organization File series of Part I often focus on international problems. The America Self-Contained Committee, various war loan campaign movements, government agencies, and papers relating to the United States Sugar Beet Association present the public relations counsel's approach to the problems brought about by the war years and the wartime economy.
In the postwar era, Bernays assisted organizations and companies such as the American Nurses Association, the pharmaceutical industry, Mack Trucks, and the United Fruit Company to adjust their activities to a more industrialized and centralized economy. Files of the United Fruit Company, which cover a twenty-year period, document its fight against communism in central American republics. Papers on the India Information Service concern the efforts of Jawaharlal Nehru and India to regain American goodwill following India's neutrality during the Korean conflict.
The papers also document Bernays's affiliation in the 1950s with the New York City Anniversary Committee, the New York State Psychologists Association, and the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. His interest in the mass communications media and his efforts to promote public relations as a profession are reflected throughout Parts I and II. He authored a number of works in the public relations field, wrote numerous articles published in a wide range of publications, and gave speeches on a variety of communications topics.
The Client files and the General Correspondence series in Part I relating to Fortune, Ladies' Home Journal, Good Housekeeping, New Republic, McCall's, and Printers' Ink record the growth and development of the magazine industry from the 1920s to the 1950s and the public relations counsel's role in the development of this industry. Other subjects of interest are Vietnam (Part I: General Correspondence, Willoughby S. Chesley file), the United States Information Agency, 1956-1961 (Part I: General Correspondence; Part I: Client, Institution, and Organization File, "National Committee for an Adequate Overseas Information Program" folder; and Part II: Client, Institution, and Organization File), the mayoralty election in New York, 1940, (Part I: Client, Institution, and Organization File, William O'Dwyer folder), and Sigmund Freud, Bernays's uncle (Family Correspondence series in Parts I and II).
A number of surveys in the collection reflect pioneering efforts in the field of public relations research. Research on the downtown area of the city of New York, studies on buying habits, studies done for government officials at the federal, state, and municipal levels, and for the greeting card industry, Merritt-Chapman & Scott, the Nash-Kelvinator Corporation, the New York theater industry, the American Nurses Association, and the American Optometric Association indicate the approach taken by Bernays in applying public relations principles to individual as well as corporate needs.
Among the more prominent correspondents in this collection are Paul Bern, Frances Payne Bingham Bolton, Lucius Boomer, Daniel J. Boorstin, Homer E. Capehart, Jacques Cartier, Willoughby S. Chesley, Myron M. Cowen, E. A. Filene, Sigmund Freud, Norman Bel Geddes, James W. Gerard, Amadeo Peter Giannini, Eric Frederick Goldman, George W. Hill, Hubert H. Humphrey, Otto Hermann Kahn, Marc Klaw, Alfred A. Knopf, Ivy L. Lee, Erich Leinsdorf, Clare Boothe Luce, Henry Robinson Luce, Joseph V. McKee, William M. Martin, H. L. Mencken, David Page, William S. Paley, Vijayalakshmi Pandit, George H. Phelps, A. N. Spanel, Lawrence E. Spivak, Albert Payson Terhune, Robert F. Wagner, Henry Agard Wallace, and Edmund S. Whitman.
Part III
Part III of the Edward L. Bernays Papers spans the years 1777-1994, with the majority of the papers concentrated in the period 1923-1990. The papers supplement files in Parts I and II and pertain primarily to Bernays's career in public relations. Part III is organized largely according to the arrangement of Parts I and II and include seven series: Family Papers; General Correspondence; Client, Institution, and Organization File; Subject File; Speeches and Writings File; Miscellany; and Oversize.
The Family Papers, 1831-1993, consist primarily of correspondence between Bernays and family members and the papers of his wife, Doris Fleischman Bernays. The majority of the letters concern family matters and local news. Correspondence between Bernays and his wife provides a glimpse of their business activities as well as their personal relationship. Also included are photocopies of letters from Bernays's uncle, Sigmund Freud, and correspondence with Freud's children, Anna, Ernst, and Martin. Also notable in the series are drafts of writings about Sigmund Freud by Freud's sister, Anna Freud Bernays, and his niece, Lilly Freud-Marlé. The writings of Doris Bernays comprise the bulk of her papers, including a draft of her book, A Wife Is Many Women. Edward Bernays played a prominent role in promoting that book. Doris Bernays's correspondence with Eleanor Roosevelt concerns writing a chapter for Bernays's book, Outline of Careers for Women.
Papers in the General Correspondence series, 1905-1994, chronicle Bernays's varied interests. The letters consist mainly of incoming correspondence relating to personal and professional matters. The majority of the correspondence is concentrated from 1962 through 1994 after Bernays's relocation from New York to Cambridge, Massachusetts. Many of the items in this series, the Subject File, and in the Miscellany series were received by the Library in photograph albums with adhesive pages. Most of these items were detached by Library staff; those that could not be removed were photocopied. Notable correspondents in the series include Sam Black, Daniel J. Boorstin, George Creel, Herbert Hoover, Lyndon B. Johnson, Clare Booth Luce, Henry Robinson Luce, Gypsy Rose Lee, H. L. Mencken, Sinclair Lewis, Arthur B. Spingarn, Lawrence E. Spivak, Robert F. Wagner, and Henry Agard Wallace.
Comprising almost one-fourth of Part III is the Client, Institution, and Organization File, 1913-1992. The series supplements the voluminous client files of Parts I and II and includes correspondence, reports, surveys, press releases, photographs, and background material. Clients and topics prominently featured in this series are the Book Publishers Research Institute, the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the United Fruit Company, the Light's Golden Jubilee, the Bernays Public Relations Counseling Letter, and surveys conducted by Bernays. Two of the more substantive surveys are "What the British Think of Us" and identifying the top ten newspapers in the United States.
The Subject File, 1919-1994, illustrates Bernays's diverse activities and interests. The series chronicles his service and affiliation with various committees, foundations, and organizations such as the Citizens' Emergency Committee to Save Memorial Drive, the Edward L. Bernays' Foundation, and Boston University. Bernays used his public relations influence to assist in the environmental campaign to save Memorial Drive in Cambridge from expansion that could have lessened the park-like atmosphere of the area. The most prolific files in the series relate to the sponsorship of the Anglo-American international relations contest by the Bernays Foundation, a contest Bernays supported to dispel false images and myths Americans and British had of each other. This series also documents Bernays's promotion of the public relations field and his advocacy of licensing public relations practitioners. Also reflected is his interest in social issues such as crime, cigarette smoking, and aging.
The Speeches and Writings File, 1912-1992, includes speeches, articles, books, book reviews, editorials, and newsletters. The bulk of the writings relates to his memoirs, Biography of an Idea. A bound volume includes various articles, pamphlets, and speeches by Bernays.
The Miscellany series in Part III, 1777-1993, consists chiefly of award certificates, financial and legal papers, biographical information, printed matter, sketches, scrapbooks, and manuscripts and pamphlets of others collected by Bernays. The scrapbooks contain both personal and client material. The "Manuscript and Pamphlet Collection" folder includes a colonial broadside of the state of Massachusetts regarding the Continental Army and a commission signed by Adolph Hitler removing individuals from active military service.
Letters received and a few copies of letters sent supplemented by memoranda and printed material.
Incoming and outgoing letters supplemented by memoranda, printed material, surveys, and reports.
Correspondence, memoranda, printed matter, reports, surveys, newspaper clippings, financial papers, photographs, lists, press releases, and notes.
Drafts, printed copies, press releases, notes, research material, correspondence, and inquiries.
Drafts, galley proofs, notes, research material, correspondence, and inquiries.
Correspondence, minutes of meetings, legal documents, press releases, and financial papers.
Drafts, galley proofs, printed copies of speeches and articles, research notes, correspondence, and a daily appointment book.
Index cards and printed lists of names and organizations.
Newspaper clippings, notes, memoranda, press releases, photographs, desk diaries, notebooks, a ledger, research files, a biographical file, lecture notes, student memorabilia, printed matter, and financial material.
Newspaper clippings, magazine articles, pamphlets, invitations, press releases, programs, and awards.
Newspaper clippings, magazine articles, photographs, pamphlets, invitations, press releases, programs, and awards.
Oversize scrapbooks.
Incoming and outgoing correspondence between Bernays and family members.
Incoming and outgoing correspondence with accompanying enclosures, memoranda and reports.
Correspondence, memoranda, printed matter, reports and surveys, clippings, photographs, lists, press releases, and notes.
Manuscript drafts, research notes, and printed copies.
Essay entries for the Anglo-American International Relations Contest in 1969 and general correspondence, press releases, financial papers and newspaper clippings.
Correspondence, biographical material, drafts and printed copies of speeches and writings, research notes, and newspaper clippings.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, newspaper clippings, reports and studies, printed matter, bills and receipts, cards and invitations, grammar school and college notebooks and related memorabilia, photographs, lists, and bibliographies.
Correspondence primarily between Bernays and family members. Other papers include a diary, financial and legal items, speeches, writings, notes, genealogical material, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence and memoranda, including attachments, between Bernays and friends, acquaintances, clients, and the public relating to his personal and professional activities.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes of meetings, newsletters, background information, surveys, notes, financial and legal papers, press releases, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes of meetings, background information, notes, interviews, press releases, photographs, lists, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, articles, book drafts, book reviews, editorials, forewords and introductions, newsletters, pamphlets, background material, notes, bibliographies, outlines, poetry, announcements and programs, evaluations, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, financial and legal papers, certificates, collected items, broadsides, pamphlets, sketches, scrapbooks, biographical material, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Oversize scrapbooks.
The papers of Gerhard Alden Gesell (1910-1993) span the years 1913-2003, with the majority of the papers concentrated from 1962-1992. Documenting primarily Gesell's career as judge of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and his career as a lawyer, the papers consist of eleven series: General Correspondence, Chronological File, Case File, Bench Books, Dockets, Sentencing File, Office File, Miscellany, 2018 Addition, Classified, and Oversize.
The General Correspondence series, 1968-1992, consisting chiefly of incoming letters from the public, pertains primarily to Gesell's Watergate cases, United States v. Ehrlichman and United States v. Chapin. In addition, there is correspondence relating to other cases of national and constitutional significance such as United States v. Washington Post Company (Pentagon Papers case) and United States v. Vuitch (legality of abortions in the District of Columbia). Also included are a few letters from friends, lawyers, and judges relating to Gesell's professional activities.
Because of its location in the nation's capital and its jurisdiction over cases involving federal agencies, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia is considered one of the most important venues in the country. Papers in the Chronological File, 1968-1993, reflect the wide range of civil and criminal cases Gesell heard as a district judge for this court: civil rights, constitutional law, antitrust matters, patent cases, and government regulations. This series consists of correspondence and memoranda, primarily between Gesell and judges, lawyers, prison officials, clerks, and staff, as well as an array of extensive legal papers such as opinions, orders, stipulations, and reports. Arranged by Gesell's staff, papers in the Chronological File relating to individual cases are scattered throughout the series rather than assembled in specific case files and provide some sense of the judge's day-to-day work. Although there is some overlap between the Case File series and this series, the Case File contains papers that are not included in the Chronological File. Also included are a few personal letters and notes, particularly concerning his farm near Arcola, Virginia. The docket sheets in the Dockets series may assist readers in locating specific documents of interest in the Chronological File, as they contain dated entries by the judge's staff documenting many details of each case. In order to use the docket sheets, a reader must know the document number for a case or know the year the case first appeared on the docket and search the docket sheets to locate it.
The Case File, 1956-1991, consists of two subseries: General and Special Case files. This series, also arranged by Gesell's staff, chronicles his rulings in some of his most significant and complex cases. The General subseries, 1956-1990, containing chiefly memoranda and orders, documents a wide range of civil, criminal, and miscellaneous cases. Arrangement is alphabetical by type of case and therein alphabetical by case title. This subseries includes papers pertaining to the riots at local universities in 1969 (George Washington Univ. v. Mann and Howard Univ. v. Abel), the riots in Washington, D.C., in 1969 (criminal riot cases), and the application of broadcasters for access to the Watergate tapes in order to air them for public broadcast (United States v. Mitchell). The General File is not as complete as the Special Case File and should be used in conjunction with the Chronological File.
The Special Case File, 1969-1991, contains individual cases which were maintained in case files rather than in the Chronological File or General case file. Many of the cases pertain to issues of national and constitutional significance, such as a variety of First Amendment cases (Hentoff v. Ichord and United States v. Washington Post Co.; the legality of abortions in the District of Columbia prior to the Supreme Court decision of Roe v. Wade (United States v. Vuitch); the firing of Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox (Nader v. Bork); the break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate complex (United States v. Ehrlichman); and Oliver L. North's role in the congressional investigation of the Iran-Contra Affair (United States v. North). The United States v. North files comprise the bulk of the Special Case File and include correspondence, memoranda, orders, transcripts, dockets, and press files. Two items pertaining to the North case are worthy of mention: a diary in which Gesell recorded notes at home at the close of the day and a letter from Gesell to Lawrence E. Walsh, head of the Office of Independent Counsel that investigated the Iran-Contra Affair, of 20 September 1991 that complimented Walsh on the way he and his staff had conducted themselves during the trial. Located in the folder "Correspondence: General, Feb. 1990-Oct. 1991," this letter is an attachment to a 24 September 1991 letter from Walsh to Gesell.
The Bench Books series, 1968-1993, contains Gesell's notes about the cases which came before his court. Arrangement is chronological, except for three volumes that are alphabetical by topic or case title. Dates written by Gesell's staff on the cover of the bench books are not always accurate.
Papers in the Dockets series, 1959-1992, provide a record of the name and docket number of individual cases. Also included are brief notes by the judge's staff recording many of the legal documents issued and filed. Arrangement is alphabetical by type of case, civil or criminal, and therein chronological by year. The Dockets series may assist readers in locating entries to specific cases, particularly the chronological file and the bench books.
The Sentencing File, 1968-1992, constituting almost half the collection, includes correspondence, memoranda, presentence reports, orders and other papers relating to the sentencing process of Gesell's criminal cases. A presentence report was prepared by a probation officer to assist the judge in determining a defendant's sentence. It generally contains information on the offense, the defendant's prior criminal record, family history, marital status, education, employment, health, military service, and financial condition, and an evaluation and recommendation by the probation officer. Serving as a record of every person sentenced by Gesell, the file reflects the vast economic and demographic changes in the District of Columbia over a twenty-year period and contains valuable social data about families, crime, the judicial system, and race relations. Papers in the presentencing file are arranged into three chronological sequences, 1968-1979, 1980-1989, and 1990-1992. The earlier sequences contain more extensive background information, while the later files indicate the judgment and terms of the sentence. Also included in this series are two card files arranged by defendant's name, one recording the sentences and the other indicating the cases in which charges were dropped or the defendant was found not guilty.
The Office File series, 1965-1993, relates to Gesell's administrative and professional duties as a district judge. The majority of the papers chronicle his activities with various committees and his sitting by designation with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
The final series, Miscellany, 1945-1993, includes speeches and writings by Gesell, reminiscences written by his law clerks, photographs and political cartoons, and tributes to Gesell after his death. One of the more important items in this series is a notebook containing Gesell's memoirs, "My Jealous Mistress," and background memoranda about significant cases and events.
The 2018 Addition, 1913 to 2003, complements the initial portion of the collection and includes material relating to Gesell's career as a lawyer with the firm of Covington & Burling in Washington, D.C., his work with the Securities and Exchange Commission, his tenure as a federal judge, his work with government committees and presidential campaigns, and his management of his farm in Loudon County, Va. Most of the correspondence relates to Gesell’s work as an attorney for Covington & Burling from 1941 to 1967. Correspondence after 1967 pertains mainly to Gesell’s judicial career. The early correspondence also documents Gesell’s personal activities and includes correspondence with family and friends with references to current events and local issues relating to the District of Columbia. Other material chronicling Gesell’s tenure as a lawyer in private practice is located in the Covington & Burling files.
Featured in the 2018 Addition are files, chiefly newspaper clippings, relating to his tenure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. While with the Commission, he investigated the New York Stock Exchange arising out of the Richard Whitney scandals and was responsible for investigations into the life insurance industry as special counsel to the Temporary National Economic Committee. Also present are files relating to Gesell’s judicial career, chiefly press articles and a trial transcript summary pertaining to United States v. North.
The 2018 Addition also contains a few files relating to Gesell’s work for the Joint Committee on the Investigation of the Pearl Harbor Attack and the President’s Committee on Equal Opportunity in the Armed Services. A letter in the Armed Services committee’s file indicated that Gesell had donated most of his files about it to the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum.
Material of a more personal nature in the 2018 Addition are financial ledgers and papers documenting Gesell’s personal finances, farm ledgers and other files pertaining to Gesell’s cattle farm, and political files documenting his work for the Democratic Party in the presidential campaigns of 1956, 1960, and 1964. Also featured are writings by Gesell containing other versions of his memoir, “My Jealous Mistress” and condolence letters to Gesell’s wife from judges, lawyers, government officials, the public, and friends after Gesell's death in 1993.
Among the most significant and frequent of Gesell's correspondents are Dean Acheson, Harding F. Bancroft, Howard C. Bratton, Warren E. Burger, Joseph M. Fitzpatrick, John M. Harlan, Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Irving R. Kaufman, J. Edward Lumbard, John Lord O'Brian, Frank T. Remington, John J. Sirica, Potter Stewart, Lawrence E. Walsh, Earl Warren, and Frank W. Wilson.
Correspondence, primarily incoming, between Gesell and lawyers, judges, friends, acquaintances, and the general public relating to his activities as a federal district court judge.
Correspondence, memoranda, orders, opinions, interrogatories, stipulations, reports, schedule sheets, and other legal papers pertaining to Gesell's professional activities.
Correspondence, memoranda, orders, briefs, transcripts, notes, and printed matter for civil, criminal, and miscellaneous cases.
Correspondence, memoranda, opinions, orders, stipulations, transcripts, dockets, background information, notes, lists, a diary, and printed matter.
Bound volumes containing Gesell's notes about the cases that came before his court.
Docket sheets for civil and criminal cases.
Correspondence, memoranda, presentence reports, orders, card files, and related sentencing information for Gesell's criminal cases.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, background information, agendas and minutes of meetings, notes, press files, and printed matter.
Chiefly speeches and writings by Gesell and his clerks. Also included are slides, photographs, political cartoons, and tributes to Gesell after his death.
Correspondence, memoranda, case files, family papers, financial papers and ledgers, farm ledgers, reports, maps, speeches and speech material, writings, college class papers, memorials and tributes, certificates, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material.
Government classified documents containing sensitive security information.
Oversize certificates relating to Gesell's professional career.
The papers of Luther Burbank (1849-1926) span the years 1830-1989, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1880-1926. Known to many of his generation as "the plant wizard," Burbank was popularly classed among the scientific heroes of the early twentieth century. His collection consists of the following series: Family Papers, General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings File, Notes and Sketches, Business Records, Miscellany, an Addition, and a Microfilm series consisting of a small selection of items from the papers which were retained by the city of Santa Rosa, California, for display in the Luther Burbank Home.
The Family Papers series includes a variety of records predating Burbank's birth in Lancaster, Massachusetts, and continuing well after his death in the Northern California town of Santa Rosa. Especially valuable are letters Burbank exchanged with his mother and sister while a prospective emigrant to the West Coast in 1875. The earliest family correspondence, dated as early as 1850, is mostly in the form of typewritten transcripts by Burbank's second wife, Elizabeth Waters Burbank, or by one of his biographers. The transcripts reproduce letters from and between Burbank's brothers and father supplemented by legal, biographical, and other personal data. Also in the Family Papers is travel memorabilia which includes a brief diary by Burbank of a trip to his boyhood New England in 1888. Since Burbank's sister, two brothers, and mother had joined or preceded him in his move to California, his journeys outside the state account for practically all of his family correspondence after 1878.
The General Correspondence series is extensive and, in addition to carbons or drafts of Burbank's replies, contains personal as well as professional letters. There are diverse and sometimes substantive inquiries from farmers interested in his projects, requests for seed catalogs from other nurserymen, fact-finding reports by foreign nationals intent on supplying Burbank with unusual seeds or seedlings, and a great deal of adulatory "fan" mail from friends both prominent and obscure. Burbank wrote and received letters from Harvey S. Firestone, Henry Ford, Charmian London, Joaquin Miller, John Muir, and Ella Wheeler Wilcox. The largest part of the correspondence concerns scientists and government officials who shared his training or helped in communicating the results of his research. Among the more significant of these individuals were David Starr Jordan, friend and patron at Stanford University, and Robert S. Woodward, head of the Carnegie Institution of Washington when Burbank was funded by that body to free him from the ordinary tasks of nursery administration.
Other scientists whose correspondence appears with some frequency include Liberty Hyde Bailey, David G. Fairchild, Jose D. Husbands, Vernon L. Kellogg, George H. Schull, H. E. Van Deman, and Hugo De Vries. The letters from De Vries are of particular interest, since it was the Dutch botanist's generous writings about Burbank's Santa Rosa experiments which broadcast their significance to the academic and scientific community. California booster organizations, then in their peak phase, also took an active part in the promotion of the plant breeder's achievements, and the evidence of their contact is best seen in the correspondence between Burbank and various officials of state and county chambers of commerce, the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition in Seattle of 1909, the Panama-Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco in 1915, and the California State Boards of Horticulture and Agriculture.
As a celebrated discoverer of new plant varieties, Burbank depended less on strict scientific methodology than on a prodigious ability to test and experiment on a practical, empirical basis. Although he made sporadic efforts to keep comprehensive records of his research, he often destroyed them once a product was finished. Those accounts which still exist have been organized in a Notes and Sketches series and complement typescripts in the Speeches and Writings File containing narrative descriptions of genera and species which he cultivated at his Santa Rosa and Sebastopol nurseries between 1903 and 1911. Among the Business Records are account books, inventories, stock lists, and plan books related to Burbanks studies. This part of the collection, while focusing mainly on financial aspects of the Burbank operation, shows where and how he purchased seeds, the diligence of his propagation and selection, and the layout of his gardens. As is true of the Notes and Sketches, the Business Records are occasionally illustrated with Burbank's drawings of his techniques and products.
The Speeches and Writings File consists of Burbank's personal writings as well as the printed, near-print, and typescript comments of scientists, friends, and journalists. Prominent among the latter were some of his most devoted admirers, including De Vries, Wilbur Hall Jordan, Kellogg, and Edward J. Wickson. In addition, there is a transcript of a 1913 interview with Burbank by Burt C. Bean. The bulk of the Burbank manuscripts pertains to plant descriptions and what is supposed to be a complete series of his published seed catalogs, but there are also a few copies of statements he made on personal and social issues and a small folder of lectures given at Stanford University between 1904 and 1906. At the end of the collection is a Miscellany series of clippings and scrapbooks which include large quantities of ephemera and some important writings.
The Microfilm series consists of selected correspondence, family papers and genealogies, nursery plans and notes, financial records, scrapbooks, and miscellany. Prominent correspondents in the series include Thomas A. Edison, Helen Keller, Alfred C. Kinsey, Jack London, and Woodrow Wilson.
Correspondents in addition to those listed above include W. Atlee Burpee, Herbert G. Gleason, J. G. Lemmon, W. W. Morrow, Spiegel Samu, F. Harvey Vachell, and F. A. Waugh.
Burbank made extensive use of photography to record the course and results of his plant breeding, and a large quantity of prints and negatives, including glass plates, has been transferred to the Prints and Photographs Division of the Library of Congress.
Letters to and from Burbank's family, including transcriptions of originals not in the collection, and subject files of topical correspondence, legal matters, school reports, travel notes, and other holograph, typewritten, near-print, and printed matter.
Letters with enclosures received by Burbank and drafts or copies of letters sent.
Holograph, typewritten, near-print, and printed copies of speeches, lectures, and writings.
Notes and sketches made by Burbank of fruit and plant species.
Account books, order books, plan books, seed and stock records, subscription books, and an inventory of Burbank's nursery operations.
Clippings, calling cards, invitations, programs, seed catalogs, membership cards, magazines, journals, printed matter, and scrapbooks.
Printed matter.
Correspondence, family papers and genealogies, nursery plans and notes, financial records, scrapbooks, and miscellany retained by the Luther Burbank Home, Santa Rosa, Calif.
The papers of Owen Lattimore (1900-1989) span the years 1907-1997, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period from 1950 to 1989. The collection relates to both private and professional matters and is arranged in seven series, the largest of which--constituting one-third of the collection--is General Correspondence. The Wartime Activities series includes records documenting Lattimore's service as a political advisor to Chiang Kai-shek, director of the Pacific Operations of the United States War Information Office, and a member of the United States Reparations Mission to Japan. Another large series, Senate Hearings, contains correspondence and records documenting Lattimore's defense against Republican Senator Joseph McCarthy's charges that he participated in communist espionage during the 1940s. Also in the collection is a Speeches and Writings series that includes articles, book reviews, and texts of Lattimore's speeches and lectures. Notable in the Miscellany series are Lattimore's handwritten journals on his pioneer trips to the inner-Asian borderlands during the 1920s and 1930s. The remaining series are titled: Subject File, Eleanor Holgate Lattimore File, Addition, and Oversize.
Records in the collection chronicling Lattimore's field research and travels in Peiping (China), Mongolia, and Manchuria during the 1920s and 1930s are particularly comprehensive. In addition to the aforementioned journals, the Subject File contains transcribed notes of Lattimore's ethnographic, historical, and cultural observations made during his travels, including information on the languages and dialects of the region. Lattimore's extensive travels in Asia provided the basis for many of his writings, which together with the related correspondence with publishers, form another strong element of the collection. Among these writings is an unpublished and incomplete autobiographical sketch, "Happiness Is Among Strangers."
Another integral component of the collection is Owen and Eleanor Lattimore's expansive correspondence, both incoming and outgoing, with colleagues, family, and friends. Many Oriental and Asian scholars, publishers, and professional colleagues are represented, including Isabel Casseres, Lauchlin Bernard Currie, Diluv Khutagt, Ildikó Ecsedy, Else Glahn, Elvebeuck Grebenik, Walther Heissig, Caroline Humphrey, Fujiko Isono, John Ulric Nef, Robert P. Newman, Urgunge Onon, Edgar B. Snow, Vilhjalmur Stefansson, and Arnold Joseph Toynbee. There is also considerable correspondence of many of Lattimore's personal friends and advisors, including Joseph Barnes, Robert LeMoyne Barrett, Arnold Bernhard, Stanley H. Burton, Rosemary Carruthers, G. Herbert Childs, John King Fairbank, Joseph Needham, Gerard Piel, and Margaret L. Richards. There is lengthy correspondence with his son David and his brother Richmond, as well as letters of his lawyers and accountants, especially William Dill Rogers and Nancy K. Mintz, which document his investments, estate settlements, establishment of the Lattimore Institute for Mongolian Studies, and litigious fallout from his Senate investigations.
Material documenting Lattimore's appointment by President Franklin D. Roosevelt as an advisor to the Chinese Nationalist government in Chungking during World War II is scant. Although there are summaries of conversations, biographical assessments, and advisory reports prepared for Chiang Kai-shek, these files are incomplete. Of particular importance, however, is the considerable correspondence between Lattimore and Lauchlin Bernard Currie of the State Department concerning the war against Japan and the problems of American assistance to the Chinese war effort. There is evidence that late in his life Lattimore, with the assistance of his lawyers and Robert P. Newman, sought to obtain through the Freedom of Information Act copies of government records documenting his tenure in Chungking, to supplement and complete his personal papers.
Files documenting the Senate's investigation of espionage and conspiracy charges against Lattimore are extensive. In 1950 Joseph R. McCarthy described Lattimore as the "chief architect" of a United States foreign policy that resulted in the Communist party's conquest of mainland China. McCarthy accused Lattimore of being the "top Soviet agent in the United States." Lattimore denied the charges, and a Senate committee initially vindicated him. Additional accusations were made a year later, however, and the Justice Department twice brought indictments against Lattimore on perjury charges stemming from his earlier testimony. The indictments were later dismissed in federal court. Preserved in the Senate Hearings series is correspondence with Lattimore's legal advisors, academic colleagues, and the public concerning the testimony. Also available are an extensive file of newspaper clippings and magazine articles, reports, hearing transcripts, motions, memoranda, opinions, and other documents relating to the perjury charges and Congressional investigation.
Professional and personal correspondence, both incoming and outgoing.
Primarily research notes on Chinese and Mongolian history and linguistic studies and vocabularies of Mongol dialects. Additional material on the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Movement, World Youth Festival, and Joint Gobi Expedition. Of particular interest is a copy of Douglas Carruthers's journals, 1907-1911.
Correspondence, reports, summaries of conversations, biographical assessments, copies of diary pages, speeches, American and Chinese newspaper clippings, personnel records, and printed materials concerning Chiang Kai-shek, United States Office of War Information, and United States reparations mission to Japan, principally during and after World War II.
Correspondence with Lattimore's legal advisors, academic colleagues, and the public; published transcripts of hearings, Federal Bureau of Investigation reports, press releases, public statements, speeches, interviews, background files, newspaper clippings, brochures, and published articles, all pertaining to hearings held by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the Internal Security Subcommittee, and the Subcommittee Investigating the Institute of Pacific Relations; and briefs, summaries, motions, decisions, and other legal records relating to United States v. Lattimore and the lower and appellate court hearings.
Drafts or prints of journal, magazine, and newspaper articles authored by Lattimore, reviews of his writings, and some correspondence with publishers; transcriptions, notes, related correspondence, newspaper clippings, and published critiques on speeches, lectures, and films made by Lattimore; and drafts or prints of book reviews written by Lattimore for journals, magazines, and newspapers.
Appointment books, biographical sketches, holograph journals with transcriptions, bibliographies, resumes, collection registers, newspaper clippings, passports, awards, degrees, printed matter, photographs, marriage certificate, wills and codicils, address books, and exhibit labels.
Papers of Owen Lattimore's wife. Correspondence, book reviews, booklets, journal and magazine articles, newspaper clippings, employment records, obituaries, death certificate, and photographs.
A photocopy with ribbon and carbon ribbon pages of "Happiness Is Among Strangers." Although incomplete, this is a fuller version of Lattimore's autobiographical sketch than the original in Speeches and Writings.
Scrapbook of war reparations mission to Japan, magazine article on Chiang Kai-shek, posters, an award, honorary degree, two magazine articles authored by Eleanor Holgate Lattimore, and a list of contributors to the Owen Lattimore Defense Fund, on 3x5 cards.
The papers of Jack Roosevelt Robinson (1919-1972) span the years 1934-2001, with the bulk of the material dating from his introduction as the first African American to play major league baseball in the twentieth century in 1947 to the fortieth anniversary in 1987 of this event. The main body of the Robinson Papers was transferred by his widow, Rachel, in 1985 to the Jackie Robinson Foundation, a nonprofit organization she founded in 1973. Additional material from a variety of sources, including photocopies of selected items from other collections of papers in the Library of Congress, was added to the collection by the foundation prior to its donation to the Library. The papers contain correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, subject files, baseball contracts, fan mail, speeches and writings, financial and legal records, congressional testimony, military records, and a variety of printed material relating to Robinson's career as a baseball player and corporate executive and to his participation in political activities, religious and civic organizations, the civil rights movement, and media affairs. The collection also contains numerous items celebrating Robinson's legacy represented in a series of posthumous commemorations and events. The papers are organized in the following series: Baseball File, Civil Rights, Political File, Business and Corporate File, Religious and Civic Activities, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, and 2023 Addition.
When Jackie Robinson began his career with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, he broke the unwritten "color line" that had existed in major league baseball since the late nineteenth century, and a major portion of the collection is devoted to his pioneering efforts in this regard. The Baseball File contains correspondence with friends and associates, baseball officials, and sportswriters affiliated with the sport, including Buzzie Bavasi, Roy Campanella, Happy Chandler, Charles Dressen, Arthur Mann, Ralph Norton, Walter F. O'Malley, Branch Rickey, and Joseph L. Reichler. The series includes originals and photocopies of Robinson's baseball contracts with the Dodgers, as well as his unsigned contract with the New York Giants following his trade in 1956. Fan mail from home and abroad offered Robinson support and encouragement in his efforts both on and off the field, while often providing a glimpse into the writers' own struggles with racial intolerance. Although the subject of discrimination in baseball is a constant theme throughout the entire collection, the Baseball File especially contains specific files on the topic.
After the 1956 season, the Dodgers traded Robinson to their crosstown rivals, the New York Giants. Robinson declined to accept the trade and announced his retirement from baseball in 1957. The Baseball File contains material relating to Robinson's trade and subsequent retirement, including the public's response to both. In 1962, Robinson became the first African American player to win election to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York. The Baseball File contains congratulatory letters and tributes in celebration of the event, including material documenting a testimonial dinner given in his honor by the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. A telegram from Martin Luther King, Jr., who had a central role in sponsoring the dinner, regretting his absence due to "an important turn of events in Albany, Georgia," symbolizes the link between athletics and civil rights issues which defined Robinson for the remainder of his life.
Robinson joined King in the civil rights action known as the Albany Movement, and a file on the Mount Olive Baptist Church, Sasser, Georgia, in the Civil Rights series reveals the aftermath of that protest. The series further highlights Robinson's commitment on behalf of civil rights in his work with the Congress of Racial Equality, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Student Emergency Fund, and the NAACP, which awarded him the Spingarn Medal in 1956. Material concerning tensions that arose between Robinson and other members of the civil rights community, including his criticism of Roy Wilkins's leadership of the NAACP and his open conflict with Malcolm X, is also contained in this series.
In addition to his support of racial equality at home, Robinson also developed an interest in the African independence movement. As a trustee of the African American Students Foundation, Robinson sponsored African students at American colleges and universities, and as a member of the American Committee on Africa, he supported a boycott of the 1968 Olympic Games in protest against the readmittance of the Union of South Africa, which had been barred from the 1964 games. The Civil Rights series contains material concerning Robinson's contributions in support of these and other African-related issues and organizations.
Robinson signaled the start of his involvement in political affairs by endorsing Richard M. Nixon in the 1960 presidential campaign. Although he identified with the Republican party, Robinson declared that he voted not for the party but for the candidate, and his eventual support of the Democratic administration of John F. Kennedy and for Democratic party candidates in the 1964 and 1968 presidential elections illustrated this point. The Political File documents Robinson's various political alliances, including his affiliations with the progressive wing of the Republican party, primarily as a close adviser of New York governor Nelson A. Rockfeller, for whom he served as special assistant for community affairs.
Though not fully engaged as a political activist until the 1960s, Robinson was no stranger to political controversy as evidenced by his 1949 appearance before the United States House Un-American Activities Committee, where he refuted Paul Robeson's alleged statement that African Americans would not fight in a war against the Soviet Union. Robinson's testimony in the Political File recalls his support of American values and traditions and explores the aftermath of this witness to his faith in America as well. A temporary alliance in 1963 between Harlem congressman Adam Clayton Powell and Malcolm X was the focal point for further controversy involving Robinson. Public reaction to an open letter written by Robinson critical of Powell and published in the Amsterdam News is contained in the Political File. Other public officials represented in the Political File, in addition to those noted above, include Chester Bowles, Barry Goldwater, W. Averell Harriman, Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Kenneth B. Keating, and Robert F. Kennedy.
Following his retirement from baseball in 1957, Robinson accepted a position as vice president for personnel with Chock Full O'Nuts, a coffee manufacturer and lunch counter chain. As an advocate of "minority enterprise," Robinson also helped establish several black-owned businesses, including the Freedom National Bank of New York, the Gibraltar Life Insurance Company, and the Hamilton Life Insurance Company. The Business and Corporate File contains material relating to these business ventures as well as to other aspects of Robinson's career as a businessman and entrepreneur and to his promotion of economic development in the African American community at large.
The Religious and Civic Activities series highlights Robinson's work with church and interfaith organizations, including the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America, and the United Church Men of the United Church of Christ. Reflecting Robinson's commitment to community-based affairs and active sense of social responsibility, the series also documents his many civic activities, in particular his participation in youth guidance and counseling programs. Material relating to Robinson's concern for urban renewal and housing for disadvantaged populations, including a small file on the Jackie Robinson Construction Company, is also located in this series.
The Subject File documents Robinson's broadcasting and media activities as well as the many tributes in his honor occasioned by his death in 1972. In addition to his role as a sportscaster, Robinson's work on radio and television enabled him to publicize his personal views and beliefs through political and social commentary. The Subject File contains contracts, program proposals, and transcripts relating to Robinson's media appearances, while his legacy is celebrated through numerous commemorations, posthumous tributes, and awards. The Subject File also contains the records of the Jackie Robinson Foundation, a nonprofit organization founded to promote leadership development and scholarship among marginalized youth.
Robinson was a popular public speaker, and the Speeches and Writings series displays the breadth of his audiences and interests. In addition to speeches, the series also contains drafts, contracts, notes, and outlines of the articles and books Robinson wrote with collaborators, including Baseball Has Done It, Breakthrough to the Big League, and I Never Had It Made. Extensive files relating to Carl Thomas Rowan's biography, Wait Till Next Year, are also located here, as is correspondence with associates and coauthors, most notably, Alfred Duckett, Robinson's long-time ghostwriter. The series includes items relating to the 1950 motion picture The Jackie Robinson Story, in which Robinson starred, and the script of the 1980 Broadway musical The First.
Robinson served as a commissioned second lieutenant in the United States Army from 1942 to1944. The Miscellany series contains medical and personnel records from Robinson's military service, including court-martial charges of insubordination resulting from his refusal to obey an order to move to the back of a segregated military bus in Texas. A military jury acquitted Robinson, and shortly thereafter, he received an honorable discharge. A small group of family papers is also included in the Miscellany series, as are the many condolences received following his death.
A 2023 Addition to the papers consists of a May 1958 letter from Robinson to President Dwight D. Eisenhower responding to the president's urge for "patience" on the topic of civil rights, and correspondence and memoranda regarding African American athlete Joe Yancey's nomination for the "Good Neighbor" Award given by Rhiengold Brewery (S. Liebmann Brewery).
Correspondence, telegrams, fan mail, baseball contracts and related items, financial and legal records, interviews and writings, photocopies, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous items concerning Robinson's baseball career and related topics.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, financial and legal records, reports, speeches and writings, congressional testimony, printed matter, newspaper clippings, photocopies, and miscellaneous items relating to Robinson's activities on behalf of the African American community and his support of the civil rights movement.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, speeches and writings, congressional testimony, printed matter, newspaper clippings, photocopies, and miscellaneous items concerning Robinson's relations with various politicians and their political campaigns.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, financial and legal records, reports, minutes of meetings, printed matter, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous items relating to Robinson's business interests following his baseball career.
Correspondence, memoranda, financial and legal records, minutes of meetings, speeches, congressional testimony, printed matter, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous items concerning Robinson's association with church-sponsored and interfaith organizations, his support of "minority housing" and urban renewal projects, and other community-based activities.
Correspondence, memoranda, financial and legal records, speeches and writings, printed matter, newspaper clippings, photocopies, and miscellaneous items relating largely to Robinson's broadcast and media activities and posthumous events.
Correspondence, drafts and outlines, literary contracts, notes and research material, royalty statements, book reviews, printed matter, newspaper clippings, photocopies, and miscellaneous items concerning articles, books, and speeches by and about Robinson.
Correspondence, family papers, telegrams, military records, appointment books, awards and tributes, biographical material, cards and invitations, printed matter, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous items.
The 2023 Addition consists of a May 1958 letter from Robinson to President Dwight D. Eisenhower responding to the president's urge for "patience" on the topic of civil rights, and correspondence and memoranda regarding African American athlete Joe Yancey's nomination for the "Good Neighbor" Award given by Rhiengold Brewery (S. Liebmann Brewery).
Part I
Part I of the papers of the Benjamin Brown French Family spans the years 1802-1924, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1826-1870. Papers of Benjamin Brown French (1800-1870) comprising Part I are organized in the following series: Journals, Correspondence, and a Miscellany consisting of poems and other occasional writings, printed matter, and a scrapbook of clippings.
Benjamin B. French came to Washington, D.C., in 1833 from his native New Hampshire. He had already served briefly as clerk and representative in the New Hampshire state legislature when friends in the state secured him an appointment in the Clerk's Department of the United States House of Representatives. He kept this post twelve years, was elected clerk of the house in 1845, and in 1847 joined Samuel F. B. Morse in the operation of the Magnetic Telegraph Company. President Franklin Pierce appointed him Commissioner of Public Buildings in 1853, an office French resigned in 1855 only to be reappointed by President Lincoln in 1861. French made the acquaintance of twelve presidents, from Andrew Jackson to Ulysses S. Grant, but it was Lincoln to whom he was most devoted. One of his duties as Commissioner of Public Buildings was to attend semiweekly White House receptions and introduce Mary Lincoln to visitors. When Willie Lincoln died on February 20, 1862, French was called upon to take charge of the funeral arrangements. At Gettysburg he was on the speaker's stand when Lincoln dedicated the national cemetery in Pennsylvania on November 19, 1863, and in April 1865 he stood by the dying president's bedside.
French's private journals, which date from 1803 because of the enclosure of early family manuscripts, were begun by French in August 1828 and continue intermittently until August 1870. In addition to commentary on New Hampshire politics during the Jacksonian era, they contain extended discussion of freemasonry, the Magnetic Telegraph Company, and the day-to-day life of a man of affairs close to the central figures of his time. Cabinet officers, Congressmen, military leaders, and people of the arts and society appear frequently and sometimes on intimate terms throughout these pages. Included are comments on the presidency of Franklin Pierce, with whom French had been politically identified prior to his bolting to the Republican side in the late 1850s, and numerous passages illuminating French's regard for Lincoln. A hymn by French was sung at the Gettysburg dedication ceremony, and later he wrote a twelve-page retrospective of the event. His journals also portray other turning points of the Civil War, including a graphic description of the reception in the capital to news of the fall of Richmond. Lincoln's assassination is fully recorded, as are the acrimonious days following the war. The journals, edited by Donald B. Cole and John J. McDonough, were published in Witness to the Young Republic: A Yankee's Journal, 1828-1870 (Hanover, N.H.: University Press of New England, 1989).
Almost all of the items in the Correspondence series in Part I consists of French's letters to and from his half brother, Henry Flagg French, a judge in Exeter, New Hampshire. Much like the journals, they contain accounts of the interior and exterior lives of nineteenth century Americans who observed much and recorded what they saw. Benjamin's letters treat religion, politics, art, and literature and are especially illuminating for their asides about events on the floor of the House of Representatives or in the halls of Congress. Observing fisticuffs between two congressmen which ended in cravats being pulled and vest buttons popped, he attended quietly to his minutetaking, kept his composure, and in a report to his brother noted that throughout the pandemonium he was "calm as a summer morning."
The Miscellany files include a scrapbook of French's writings and holograph and printed poems.
Part II
Part II of the Benjamin B. French Family Papers spans the years 1778-1940, with the bulk of the material dating from 1813 to 1893. Benjamin B. French, Francis Ormond French (1837-1893), and Amos Tuck (1810-1879) are the principal figures represented. The material is organized in the following series: Journals, Correspondence, Miscellany, 2019 Addition, and Oversize material.
Journals of Francis O. French, the older son of Benjamin B. French contain an account of a youth from a prominent family growing up in the nation's capital in the mid-nineteenth century. Beginning in 1850 when he was twelve years old, “Frank” French regularly kept his journals through 1856, a period during which he attended Mr. Wight's Rittenhouse Academy in Washington and Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire, and began his studies at Harvard College. Entries range from jottings on typical, day-to-day neighborhood and student activities to extended remarks on significant events, such as the deaths of prominent American political figures and the fire in the United States Capitol which destroyed the Library of Congress in 1851. Additionally the journals record the comings and goings of numerous family members who visited the French family. The first volume of these journals was edited by John J. McDonough and published as Growing Up on Capitol Hill: A Young Washingtonian's Journal, 1850-1852 /Francis O. French (Washington, D.C.: Library of Congress, 1997). Also included are journals kept by Francis French in 1864 and 1870-1871, in which he recorded a visit to his dying father in Washington, and fragments of journals by Benjamin French and Amos Tuck.
The Correspondence series comprises chiefly the personal letters of Benjamin B. French, Francis O. French, and Amos Tuck and is organized largely to reflect the original arrangement of the bound volumes from which the material was removed. Complementing his papers in Part I, the correspondence of Benjamin B. French with various family members includes news and observations similar to those in his journal. In frequent letters to his son Francis, he interlaces news from home and fatherly advice with observations and commentary on political figures, government officials, and significant events. The letters reveal French's growing anxiety as the nation drifted toward dissolution, tempered by his determined faith that the Union would prevail. Even though an admirer of Abraham Lincoln, French was still critical of Lincoln's “shilly shally” during the months leading up to the war. French's letters to his son Francis in April 1865 provide an important account of events surrounding Lincoln's death, including French's assertion that John Wilkes Booth had created an unusual disturbance at Lincoln's second inauguration. French's correspondence also includes a miscellaneous group of incoming letters relating primarily to his Masonic activities.
The personal letters of Francis O. French also constitute a significant portion of the Correspondence series. Francis French trained as a lawyer at Harvard and after the Civil War established a successful career in international finance. In 1870 he joined Jay Cooke & Co., survived its collapse in 1873, and joined a group with controlling interest in the First National Bank of New York. In 1880 he sold his interest in First National and, in failing health, traveled extensively in his final years. His correspondence offers less striking commentary than his father, but provides insight into the life of a prosperous American family of the late nineteenth century and includes letters received from prominent men in finance and government as well as family members. Correspondents include Harris C. Fahnestock (banker), Daniel Chester French (a cousin), and secretaries of the treasury Lot M. Morrill, Hugh McCulloch, William A. Richardson (a cousin), and John Sherman.
The Correspondence also contains family correspondence of Amos Tuck, whose daughter Ellen married Francis French in 1861. An inhabitant of New Hampshire, Tuck studied law, served as a representative in Congress from 1847 to 1853, and was involved in the founding of the Republican party in 1853-1854. His letters to family members include commentary on politics, his travels in the Midwest in the 1851, and the devastation of the South after the Civil War. There are also a few personal letters of William Merchant Richardson, father of Benjamin B. French's first wife and a chief justice of the New Hampshire Superior Court. The Correspondence series contains a small number of photocopies of original letters, invitations, and related documents from prominent figures received by Benjamin B. and Francis O. French but not included among these papers.
Among the speeches and writings in the Miscellany series is Benjamin B. French's memoir of his early years as a clerk in the House of Representatives and a Fourth of July speech prepared by William Merchant Richardson in 1808 discussing Thomas Jefferson and the Embargo Act. Other items among the Miscellany include biographical material, certificates, a commonplace book, memorials, memorabilia, and scrapbooks.
The 2019 Addition series consists of a letter dated July 15, 1850, to Benjamin B. French from employees of the Magnetic Telegraph Company regarding the failure of his re-election as president.
Bound volumes of private journals kept by Benjamin B. French. Entries begin in 1828, with earlier material consisting of family items enclosed by Amos Tuck French.
Bound volumes of letters between Benjamin B. French and his half brother, Henry Flagg French. Arranged in three categories: original correspondence, typewritten transcripts by Amos Tuck French, and an abridged published edition of Benjamin French's journals and letters edited by Amos Tuck French.
Handwritten or printed poems by Benjamin B. French and other occasional writings, miscellaneous printed matter, and a scrapbook of clippings.
Bound volumes of private journals kept by Benjamin B. French, Francis O. French, and Amos Tuck.
Letters sent and received chiefly by Benjamin B. French, Francis O. French, and Amos Tuck.
Autograph book, biographical material, certificates, clippings, commonplace book, memorabilia, school records, scrapbooks, and speeches and writings.
Autograph letter to Benjamin B. French from employees of the Magnetic Telegraph Company.
War Department broadside announcing reward for capture of Lincoln's assassins, certificates, a letter, child's cut-out toys, scrapbook, and a draft of a memoir.
The papers of Henry Robinson Luce (1898-1967) span the years 1917-1967 with the bulk of the material dated 1945-1967. The collection is organized in seven series: Special Correspondence, Business and Social Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Financial Papers, Miscellany, and an Addition. Although the papers primarily document Luce's work with organizations, they also reflect his other professional and personal concerns as well. As head of the Time-Life-Fortune publishing empire, Luce's concerns touched many aspects of political, social, and cultural history in the United States during the mid-twentieth century. Luce believed that America should serve as a democratic example in the world, and his internationalist perspective is documented throughout the collection, most particularly in files on China and international law.
With three exceptions – deeds from Mepkin plantation in South Carolina dated 1917, army records from 1920, and speeches from 1928 onward – the earliest date of papers is 1933 by which time Luce was already a successful editor and publisher and was beginning to devote more of his time to interests outside Time/Life. There is no material for the earlier years when Luce was beginning his publishing endeavors. From 1933 to1967, there are papers on Luce's households, finances, travels, and his advisory and philanthropic activities, but the bulk of the collection dates after 1945 and relates to activities ancillary to his publishing concerns. Papers relating to Time, inc., were retained by the corporation.
The Henry Luce Papers were received at the Library in approximately twenty major sections, with subdivisions corresponding closely with the administrative structure of Luce's office. Although the integrity of this arrangement has been retained, the present organization of the seven series is a simplification of the original order. A large portion originally consisted of files from Luce's office assistants, or personal assistants, in particular, Edward K. C. (“Kip”) Finch, Russell Bourne, and Emmeline Nollen. There is evidence, too, that Allen Grover and C. D. Jackson, officials of Time/Life, were entrusted with Luce's personal and financial affairs. From these people come numerous memoranda for Luce's attention, drafts of correspondence, and responses to his requests for research on a particular subject. Much of the Luce correspondence in the collection was handled by one of his assistants. There is, however, correspondence composed by Luce himself scattered throughout the collection. Notations in pencil on memoranda or on incoming correspondence were Luce's method of suggesting syntactic improvement or to relay the gist of his own thoughts on a subject.
The Special Correspondence series consists of social notes and generally brief correspondence with enclosures from well-known figures of the century seeking favors or an exchange of ideas. Some of these letters are social notes; others relate to organizations or briefly discuss political issues. A note from President Dwight D. Eisenhower, for example, states that he would like to discuss a specific matter with Luce, but there is no record of the actual discussion. The series also includes substantive correspondence, both personal and business, from individuals such as Raymond E. Baldwin, Baron Max Aitken Beaverbrook, Chester Bowles, Brendan Bracken, Pearl S. Buck, William C. Bullitt, John Foster Dulles, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson, Walter Judd, Henry Cabot Lodge (1902-), Henry Kissinger, Archibald MacLeish, Robert G. Menzies, Nelson Rockefeller, David O. Selznick, Spyros P. Skouros, Herbert Bayard Swope, Arthur H. Vandenberg, Thornton Wilder, and Wendell L. Willkie. Copies of Luce's replies are usually absent.
The Business and Social Correspondence series includes invitations and requests to sponsor or serve on committees; attend conferences, dinners, and luncheons; appear on radio and televison; write letters of recommendation or articles; schedule appointments; and contribute money. Articles, books, and other gifts sent to Luce are documented through his thank-you notes.
The Subject File is the largest series in the collection. Focusing on Luce's involvement with national and international organizations as director, trustee, sponsor, patron, chairman, committee member, donor, or contributor, it documents the degree to which Luce participated in the life of a particular organization. By far the largest areas of interest for Luce relate to Chinese cultural, social, and political history, Christianity and philanthropy in the United States, and international law. Papers on the latter are confined to the Subject File, with cross-references to the Speeches and Writings. The papers pertaining to China are also primarily located in the Subject File. These extensive files range from Luce's support for Christian missionary work and educational institutions to war relief campaigns as the Chinese fought to expel Japanese forces during World War II and later as Nationalist forces battled the Communists for control of the country. Additional material located in the Business and Social Correspondence series is filed with miscellaneous correspondence in reference to China. China is also the subject of many speeches in the Speeches and Writings File. Files on Christianity and philanthropy are found in the Subject File under the names of organizations, such as those related to Presbyterians.
Luce's other interests evident in the Subject File include innovative approaches to education discussed in files for Kirkland College, Pro Deo, and Yale Luce Professorship. The Institute for Pacific Relations and Rockefeller Brothers Fund files concern world politics. Ecology is a subject of the Mepkin Plantation papers, Valley Beautiful Citizens Council, and Strip Mining Research files. Civil rights for minorities are represented in the National Urban League material.
The Speeches and Writings File includes speeches dated 1928-1967. Luce's principal subjects are China, religion, philosophy, and international law. Since some of the speeches are handwritten or have first and second drafts, Luce's thoughts and ideology emerge from the texts. Also included in this series is a book manuscript written in 1966 in which Luce recalls three decades of American history and the men of political and economic power whom he knew and consulted. The manuscript complements an earlier publication, “The American Century,” which, though not included among the writings in this series, is the subject of correspondence constituting the Addition. Portions of the unpublished book were incorporated into The Ideas of Henry Luce edited by John K. Jessup and published in 1969. A brief diary, circa1940-1947, details a meeting with Franklin D. Roosevelt; handwritten notes and fragments from this period are of a philosophical nature.
The Financial Papers series includes financial and property records. The Miscellany series includes biographical material, honorary degrees, awards, citations, and files concerning the management of household, office, and personal affairs such as gifts and travel.
Correspondence with occasional attachments and related material from friends, acquaintances, and well-known figures of the day.
Letters received and copies of letters sent with related material. Generally includes correspondence, invitations, requests, and thank you notes.
Letters sent and received, printed matter, minutes, reports, clippings, memoranda, and miscellaneous attachments.
Speeches and articles with related correspondence and attachments, drafts and final copies of speeches, and memoirs and notes.
Bank statements, accounts, budgets, correspondence, and memoranda relating to personal financial affairs and property management.
Biographical data, office file relating to management of Luce's properties and staff, honorary degrees and awards, guest and gift lists, correspondence, memoranda, and printed material relating to travels.
Correspondence relating to Luce's article, “The American Century,” published in Life, 1941.
Cash books.
The papers of Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790) span the years 1726 to 1907, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1770-1789. Consisting of correspondence, journals, records, articles, and other material, the collection reflects Franklin's many interests and activities.
Series I relates chiefly to Franklin's mission to France to obtain diplomatic recognition of the rebellious colonies as well as financial and military aid and to participate in the peace negotiations in Paris and London preceding the Treaty of Paris in 1783. The series contains seventeen interrelated volumes chiefly pertaining to Franklin's years in France. Six are letterbooks of the United States legation in Paris, 1779-1782. Other volumes include letters in French to Franklin, 1777-1780; records of the peace commissioners, 1780-1783; negotiations in London, 1775 (original and Franklin's corrected transcript); and Franklin's correspondence with David Hartley, 1775-1781. Single volumes include the Craven Street, London, letterbook, 1772-1773, one of the few pre-Revolutionary Franklin letterbooks to survive; the signed Petition of the First Continental Congress to the King, 16 October 1774; and Richard Oswald's journal concerning the peace commission, 1782.
Series II has been described in the Library's publication List of the Benjamin Franklin Papers in the Library of Congress compiled in 1905 by Worthington C. Ford. Of the fourteen volumes in this series, eleven represent a selection of Franklin's correspondence, 1726-1790 made by William Temple Franklin prior to his departure for London in 1791. The letters bear many editorial annotations, deletions, and other changes made by William Temple Franklin before publication of his three-volume work. This series also contains a volume of notes entitled “Medical, Nature Printing and Addenda” and two volumes of William Temple Franklin's papers.
Series III represents a miscellaneous group of Benjamin Franklin items gathered by the Library. It includes the original manuscript of Franklin's Articles of Belief and Acts of Religion; his correspondence with M. S. Hewson, 1760-1779; a facsimile copy of his ledger as postmaster general, 1775-1778; his correspondence with Jan Ingenhousz, 1777-1785; and other papers, 1728-1841 and undated.
Series IV includes copies of items held by other institutions and transcripts of material from Series I and II which is not on the microfilm of the Library's Benjamin Franklin Papers.
The Addition consists of a letter, 1753, from Franklin to George Whitefield concerning the importance of “good works” in the Christian faith. The letter written in an unknown hand is a print made from a microfilm in the American Philosophical Society Library, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Letterbooks, journals, records of negotiations, a petition, and correspondence.
General correspondence and miscellaneous papers of Benjamin Franklin and correspondence and other papers of William Temple Franklin.
Literary and scientific articles, memoranda, correspondence of Benjamin Franklin and William Temple Franklin, and miscellany.
Copies of correspondence and miscellaneous material from collections outside the Library of Congress.
Copy of a letter from Franklin to George Whitefield.
The papers of John Hay (1838-1905) span the years 1783 to 1999, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1897-1905. The collection focuses on his diplomatic efforts as secretary of state but also contains material on his career before 1898 and on his personal life. It is composed mainly of correspondence, scrapbooks, and newspaper clippings supplemented by diaries, letterbooks, and miscellaneous material. There is also an autograph collection relating chiefly to slavery in the United States.
American diplomacy from 1898 to 1905 is the central theme of the Diaries and Notebooks and various correspondence series. As secretary of state during the period, Hay played a crucial role in the formulation and execution of American foreign policy. The diaries reflect Hay's role in the later years of his tenure in office. The Letterbooks and John Hay Letters series reveal his views and activities in the diplomatic sphere under presidents William McKinley and Theodore Roosevelt. Hay's letters to his wife in the Family Correspondence series, although primarily concerned with personal and social activities, also provide an occasional glimpse into his official concerns.
The Special Correspondence and General Correspondence series provide information on all aspects of American foreign affairs while Hay was secretary of state and are useful in portraying his nondiplomatic activities as well. The letters from American diplomatic agents throughout the world reveal the conditions in various countries that influenced official American policy and the manner in which policy decisions were implemented. The largest number of letters in this category are from Joseph Choate and William W. Rockhill in the Special Correspondence. Hay's correspondence with Roosevelt and Alvey A. Adee, among others, provides an intimate glimpse into the formation of policy. The Special Correspondence and General Correspondence series also help to elucidate Hay's personal and political concerns.
The container list includes an index to the Special Correspondence series. Included among the correspondents are Brooks Adams, Samuel L. Clemens, George B. Cortelyou, Charles William Eliot, Henry James, Clarence King, Henry Cabot Lodge (1850-1924), William McKinley, Julian Pauncefote, Elihu Root, and Cecil Spring-Rice.
A Miscellany series contains autographs, drawings, invitations, notes, photographs, printed matter, receipted bills, research material, speeches, and writings. Included is a vellum copy of the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution autographed by the signators of the amendment.
The Scrapbooks series contains newspaper clippings dealing with America's participation in the Spanish-American War and Hay's personal and political activities, particularly from 1898 to 1905.
The Additions includes a land grant issued by the state of Kentucky on July 2, 1798, to Abraham Lincoln (1744-1786), grandfather of President Abraham Lincoln, and his heirs, along with a letter of January 5, 1877, to John G. Nicolay from A. C. Matthews concerning the grant and a report documenting its authenticity. Also included is a scrapbook containing photographs and newspaper clippings relating to diplomatic functions and family occasions. The 2008 Addition contains a letter from Elizabeth Marion Bryce to Clara Louise Stone Hay concerning a gift of a drawing of the Andes mountain range. The 2021 Addition includes three letters from Hay to his daughter, Alice Hay Wadsworth, concerning personal and social activities. In one letter, Hay recounts his first visit to Victoria, Queen of Great Britain. Two other letters are addressed to Hay and relate to the recent death of the queen in 1901.
Diaries and notebooks containing occasional copies of letters, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and a negative photostat of the key to the printed edition of Letters of John Hay and Extracts from Diary, selected by Henry Adams and edited by Clara Louise Stone Hay, 1908.
Bound volumes of copies of letters sent by Hay.
Holograph and typed letters and holograph, typed, and photostatic copies of letters sent by Hay.
Letters from Hay to his wife, Clara Louise Stone Hay; letters received and occasional letters sent by Clara Louise Stone Hay; and one bound volume of letters to her.
Letters to John Hay and occasionally to his wife from prominent correspondents.
A bound volume entitled “From Congo to Congress” containing original and facsimile correspondence, autographs, clippings, notices, and documents relating generally to slavery in the United States.
Letters received.
Invitations, cards, and notices; John Hay writings, speeches, and research materials; materials compiled by Tyler Dennett about Hay; autograph album; printed matter including pamphlets and newspaper clippings; unbound photographs; and two photograph albums.
Bound volumes of newspaper clippings relating generally to the Spanish-American War and American diplomacy.
Correspondence, land grant, and scrapbook.
Autographs, historical documents, and scrapbooks.
The papers of Ira Clarence Eaker (1896-1987) span the years 1917-1989, with a large portion concentrated in the World War II period, 1942-1945. The papers consist of two parts processed at different times which document two distinct phases of Eaker's life. Part I treats Eaker's military career in the United States Army Air Corps (1918-1947). Part II relates to Eaker's activities after leaving the military, including those as an aviation industry executive, spokesman for the air force and air power, and as a syndicated newspaper columnist who wrote and lectured on national security issues. Eaker maintained contact with military associates throughout his life, and the themes of air power, aviation, and belief in a strong national defense are prominent throughout the collection.
Part I
Part I of Eaker's papers documents nearly every aspect of his long career in the United States Army Air Corps and is especially comprehensive for the World War II years, when Eaker organized and commanded the Eighth Bomber Command in England and commanded the Eighth Air Force, United States Army Air Forces, in the United Kingdom and the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces (MAAF) in Italy. Eaker led the first American B-17 bomber strike against German occupation forces in France, bombing Rouen in 1942. He was a key proponent of precision daylight bombing attacks on Germany's industrial war production, and in 1944 while commanding the MAAF he led the first shuttle bombing raid from Italy into Germany, landing in the Soviet Union after striking German targets. Eaker's final positions in Washington, D.C., as chief of air staff and then as deputy chief of army air forces involved demobilization of the air forces and planning for the creation of the air force as a separate branch of the military service.
The Diaries series contains typescript accounts of Eaker's activities in the military for the period 1942-1947, including his military service in World War II and his work in Washington until his retirement. The diaries include Eaker's daily schedule and record his flying time. Details are more official than personal.
The Personal File comprises Eaker's files relating to his military career prior to World War II. Personal correspondence and official documents depict the growth and promotion of military aviation. During the late 1920s and 1930s, Eaker was a pioneering aviator who made test flights and successful and unsuccessful attempts at aerial records. The files for March-May 1934 cover the period when the army air corps transported mail following the cancellation of commercial airmail contracts by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Eaker commanded the operations of Air Mail Route 4, Western Zone.
The General Correspondence series contains correspondence of a personal and general nature for the period 1942-1950. The correspondence for the war years complements the official material in the World War II File.
Although material relating to World War II can be found in almost every series in Part I, the World War II File contains Eaker's extensive working files relating to his establishment of the Eighth Bomber Command in England in 1942 and his command of the Eighth Air Force in the United Kingdom in 1943 and the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces in Italy in 1944 and early 1945. Files for the Eighth Bomber Command and the Eighth Air Force document the American program of daylight strategic bombing of Germany and Eaker's close working relationship with the Royal Air Force. Topics covered in the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces files include the invasion of southern France, the strategic bombing offensive against German oil supplies, and shuttle bombing missions. Types of material include correspondence and memoranda between officers and military units, correspondence with families of missing aircrew men, bombing reports, and minutes of meetings.
The Subject File features notable events in Eaker's career as a pioneering aviator in the army air corps, including the Pan-American Goodwill Flight around South America (1926-1927), the refueling-endurance flight of the "Question Mark" (1929), and the operation of an air mail route in 1934 as well as flight records for his entire military career. Other material pertains to Eaker's activities with a variety of organizations relating to military and civil aviation.
The Speeches and Writings series contains articles, books, speeches, and associated material relating to speaking engagements. Principal themes are aviation, air power, and national security. In addition to articles and speeches prepared and delivered by Eaker, other speeches and articles seem to have been prepared by Eaker for such individuals as chiefs of the Army Air Corps James E. Fechet and Oscar Westover. Book files include sections on Army Flyer and Winged Warfare, which Eaker coauthored with Henry Harley Arnold.
Prominent correspondents in this portion of the collection include Henry Harley ("Hap") Arnold, Joseph K. Cannon, Winston Churchill, Jacob L. Devers, James E. Fechet, Barney M. Giles, W. Averell Harriman, Arthur Harris, Robert A. Lovett, John C. Slessor, Carl A. Spaatz, and Nathan F. Twining.
Part II
The second part of the Eaker Papers begins with diaries containing brief accounts of daily activities, including meetings and events. The Scheduling File and the appointments and phone messages in the Subject File complement this series by supplying similar information and lengthening the period of time documented.
The General Correspondence documents Eaker's activities following the Second World War. Correspondence from the late 1940s through the 1950s concerns his career with Hughes Tool Company and Hughes Aircraft Company, first in Houston, Texas, and then in California. Correspondence relates to social and philanthropic activities on behalf of the Hughes organization, as well as to Eaker's contact with wartime colleagues. Eaker also reviewed the script for the movie "Twelve O'Clock High," written by Bierne Lay and Sy Bartlett, who had served in the Eighth Air Force in Britain during the war. Beginning in 1957, Eaker was based in Washington, D.C., where he served as East Coast representative of Douglas Aircraft and later on the advisory board of Hughes Aircraft, using his access to Defense Department officials to learn about policy and future expenditures. Correspondence after the early 1960s often contains comments on Eaker's national security columns. Eaker maintained long-lasting correspondence with wartime friends and coworkers and the letters record their periodic reunions. Well documented is his close friendship with Carl A. (Tooey) Spaatz. Other prominent and frequent correspondents in this portion of the collection include Donald Douglas, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hunter Harris, Houston Harte, Harris Hull, Glenn Jackson, Lyndon B. Johnson (1950s), Bierne Lay, Curtis LeMay, James Parton, Virgil Pinkley, Elwood R. (Pete) Quesada, Eddie Rickenbacker, Sir John C. Slessor, and John Hay (Jock) Whitney.
The Scheduling File records Eaker's activities in the period 1952-1982 in correspondence, agendas, and other material relating to speaking engagements, ceremonial events, trips, conferences, and board meetings. Frequent activities include attendance at Air Force Logistics Command (AFLC) commanders' conferences, Air Force senior statesmen briefings at the Pentagon, visits to the Air Force Academy, lectures to classes at the Air War College of the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama, and speaking engagements for the Air Force, civic organizations, and other groups. In the 1970s, Eaker and Arthur Metcalf of the United States Strategic Institute made several trips to Europe, where Eaker visited World War II acquaintances in Britain, including Sir Arthur Harris and Sir John C. Slessor. He was briefed at North Atlantic Treaty Organization headquarters in Brussels, and visited Albert Speer, Hitler's minister of armament production, in Germany. In 1976, Eaker interviewed Speer about the air war in World War II and subsequently spoke and wrote about these conversations. Copies of Eaker's speeches are contained in the Speeches and Writings File.
Also in the Speeches and Writings File are copies of Eaker's articles, book reviews, syndicated news columns, and speeches. Major topics are aviation, air power, and national security. Eaker's newspaper columns span two decades, 1962-1980. First syndicated by the Copley News Service and then by the Los Angeles Times Syndicate of the General Features Corporation, the columns cover such topics as defense budgets, assessments of administrations from Kennedy through Reagan on national security issues, the Vietnam War, the military strength of the United States and the Soviet Union, the space program, the Middle East, and the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT). Eaker's speeches focus primarily on aviation and national security. They also include recollections of military leaders such as James H. Doolittle, James E. Fechet, Benjamin Foulois, Nathan F. Twining, Oscar Westover, and businessmen such as Howard Hughes. Many of the books Eaker reviewed related to World War II and prominent individuals he knew, such as Winston Churchill and Dwight D. Eisenhower.
The Subject File contains correspondence, reports, minutes, clippings, and printed matter relating to Eaker's involvement with the air force and the Air Force Academy and organizations such as the Falcon Foundation, the Air Force Academy Foundation, and the Air Force Historical Foundation. Other files concern the Hughes Aircraft Company and Donald W. Douglas (1892-1981) and Donald W. Douglas (1917-), of Douglas Aircraft, as well as Eaker's dealings with Congress during the early 1960s. Similar subjects are covered in the Subject File of Part I, with overlap between the first and second portions of the collection in the late 1940s and early 1950s.
The James Parton File consists of papers accumulated by Eaker's wartime aide and biographer covering the last years of the general's life. Correspondence relates to the preparation of Parton's book, "Air Force Spoken Here": General Ira Eaker and the Command of the Air. Since Eaker was in failing health during the preparation of the biography, 1984-1986, much of Parton's correspondence is addressed to Ruth Eaker. During these last years of Eaker's life, Parton helped by answering correspondence and assisting with the disposition of the general's medals, uniforms, and memorabilia.
Typescript notes of appointments with comments and a few collateral documents.
Personal and official correspondence.
Correspondence sent and received.
Correspondence, reports, memoranda, meeting minutes, press releases, notes, lists, accounts, and printed matter relating primarily to Eaker's command of the Eighth Bomber Command, the Eighth Air Force, and the Mediterranean Allied Air Forces.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, military personnel "201" files, flight records, memorabilia, press releases, clippings, and printed matter.
Articles, book drafts, and speeches prepared and delivered by Eaker, prepared by Eaker for others, or delivered by others and kept by Eaker as a reference file. Speech files also contain correspondence, clippings, and other material related to speaking engagements.
Maps, drawings, plans, reports, and scrapbooks.
Government security classified correspondence and reports.
Handwritten and typescript records of daily activities.
Correspondence and related material.
Correspondence, memoranda, agendas, invitations, programs, and clippings.
Articles, book reviews, forewords, columns, speeches, speech material, and various other writings.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial data, clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence and book reviews relating to Parton's biography of Eaker, Air Force Spoken Here, and correspondence from the last years of Eaker's life, much relating to the disposition of his medals, trophies, and uniforms, and a master's thesis on Eaker.
Drawings, blueprints, and certificates.
Government security classified correspondence and reports.
The records of the Confederate States of America span the years 1854-1889, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1861-1865. The collection relates to the formation of the government of the Confederacy and the conduct of its internal, external, and military affairs.
With few exceptions, the collection consists of official or semiofficial records generated by departments of the Confederate government and their agents. The departments of state, justice, treasury, navy, and war and the post office are represented, along with material relating to the president, the congress, and the constitution.
Most numerous are the records of the Department of State containing correspondence exchanged for most of the period between Secretary of State Judah P. Benjamin and departmental agents and diplomats abroad, particularly those stationed in Belgium, France, Great Britain, and Mexico. The records are supplemented by the inclusion of the James Wolcott Wadsworth Collection of similar material. Other records of the department relate to administrative and financial affairs, passports, pardons, appointments to office, applications for office, and maritime and domestic affairs of the Confederacy. As noted below, the records of the Department of State were once known as the "Pickett Papers."
The records of the treasury and post office departments are chiefly concerned with subordinate offices. The records of the War Department contain early correspondence of the secretary of war, general orders, strength returns, muster rolls and quartermaster records. Justice Department material consists of records of Confederate courts in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
Proclamations, messages, and other papers of President Jefferson Davis, acts and resolutions of the Confederate congress, material relating to the constitution and secession, and miscellaneous items complete the collection. A Miscellany series includes documents relating to the state governments of Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia, printed and published material covering the statues and proclamations of the Confederate government, and blank official forms.
Prior to the evacuation of Richmond, Virginia, by the Confederate government, Judah P. Benjamin ordered the records packed in wooden cases for removal from the capital and placed them in the custody of the chief clerk of the department, William J. Bromwell. Bromwell hid the records of in a barn near Charlotte, North Carolina. Following a quarrel with Benjamin, Bromwell disclosed the location of the records to John T. Pickett, who had been a Confederate agent in Mexico and whose personal papers are also in the Library of Congress. Pickett sold the records to the United States in 1872 for $75,000. Among the nearly one hundred additions was the transfer in 1920 of a group of Confederate treasury records from the United States Treasury Department. In 1921, much material now in the War Department series was received from descendants of Confederate officers. The series entitled Additions consists of several miscellaneous groups of records formerly organized under separate headings. The material consists chiefly of Confederate financial bonds.
Correspondence of many of the leading officials of the Confederate States appears in the records. In addition to the dominant figure, Secretary of State Judah P. Benjamin, other correspondents include Bolling Baker, G. T. Beauregard, Clement C. Clay, Lewis Conger, Jefferson Davis, Edwin DeLeon, Anthony J. Guirot, Charles J. Helm, Lewis Heyliger, Henry Hotze, L. Q. C. Lamar, A. Dudley Mann, James M. Mason, Christopher G. Memminger, John T. Pickett, John A. Quintero, John H. Reagan, Raphael Semmes, John Slidell, Alexander Hamilton Stephens, Jacob Thompson, William H. Trescott, LeRoy P. Walker, and William Lowndes Yancey.
Correspondence, instructions, dispatches, and related material exchanged between the Department of State and its representatives to other nations.
Correspondence, instructions, dispatches, and related material exchanged between the Department of State and Confederate officials and agents in foreign countries.
Correspondence and other related material with diplomatic representatives of foreign nations.
Correspondence, memoranda, letters of marque, claims for damage, and other related material concerning marine, administrative, and domestic activities.
Correspondence, estimates, memoranda, and indexes relating to the loss and destruction of property in the Confederacy.
A daily account of events from 22 Feb. 1862-12 Dec. 1864.
Correspondence, accounts, receipts, records, memoranda, appropriations, estimates, checks, warrants, and ledgers relating to the expenses of the State Department and its agents.
Records of passports and pardons issued, applications for passports, lists, passports granted, and a record book.
Drafts, manuscript copies, and printed copies of proclamations and messages of Jefferson Davis and other leaders of the Confederacy.
Applications for office, records of commissions and appointments issued, confirmations of appointments, acting appointments, oaths of office, letters of resignation, and related correspondence.
An address book, orders, resolutions, copyrights, prisoner exchange records, memoranda, printed forms, and miscellaneous material relating to Fort Sumter, S.C., foreign loans, Indian affairs, and Lord John Russell.
Clippings from Confederate, Union, and foreign newspapers.
Correspondence of Department of State officials with commissioners, other officials, and agents, generally in foreign countries. This series largely duplicates material in the Diplomatic Missions and the Consular and Other Missions subseries.
Correspondence, messages, proclamations by Jefferson Davis, lists, memoranda, and acts and resolutions of the Confederate congress.
Constitutions of the Confederacy, articles of secession of the Confederate states, and related material.
Court costs, minute books, docket books, garnishment petitions, rules, and related material for the Confederate States of America and the United States and District courts in Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi.
Correspondence to and from various officials of the Treasury Department, estimates of funds needed, a letterbook, circulars of the United States Treasury Department, and related material.
Appointment Bureau letterbooks, lists, account books, contracts and schedules, a report of the postmaster general, and related material.
Correspondence, reports, orders, circulars, a letterbook, regimental records, quartermaster records, general orders, captured Union dispatches, field returns, certificates, lists, and related material.
Accounts, circulars, correspondence, reports, logbooks, certificates, and related material.
Memoranda, letters, bills, lists, receipts, published material, and printed forms relating to the provenance and description of the collection, several states (Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia) within the Confederacy, and other facets of the history of the Confederate States of America.
Autographs, correspondence, register of surgeons, financial bonds, and other material.
Blank forms and financial bonds.
The papers of the Bartlett family represent five generations of the family from 1710 to1931, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1800 and 1890.
The papers consists of correspondence, diaries, notebooks, legal papers, diplomas, financial papers, account books, drafts of speeches, bills of lading, school compositions, genealogical material, photographs, maps, printed matter, biographies, obituaries, scattered individual issues of newspapers, and miscellaneous items.
The collection describes in detail the professional and political careers of Josiah Bartlett (1729-1795), signer of the Declaration of Independence and governor of New Hampshire, and his sons, Levi Bartlett (1763-1828) and Ezra Bartlett (1770-1848), both physicians and jurists, and Josiah Bartlett (1768-1838), physician, member of Congress, and president of the New Hampshire State Senate, as well as the papers of Ezra's son, Josiah Bartlett, (1803-1853), also a physician, and other descendants.
The papers primarily reflect the professional affairs of rural physicians and the daily activities and concerns of a large New England family in the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries. Specific topics in the early correspondence include activities in Congress prior to the declaration of war on Great Britain in 1812, sentiment in New Hampshire favoring the war, and an account by an American combatant of the repelling of the British attack on Fort McHenry and Baltimore in 1814.
Later correspondence concerns the Missouri Compromise, Republican and Whig politics in New Hampshire, antislavery sentiment, the Seminole War, the Panic of 1837, life in the United States Navy, activities in military hospitals during the Civil War, and business developments in New England after the war.
Diaries and notebooks.
Letters sent and received.
Indentures, deeds, contracts, court orders, depositions, case books, wills, and miscellaneous items.
Bills and receipts, court payrolls, county receipts, and account books.
Draft speeches by Josiah Bartlett (1768-1838), Josiah Bartlett (1803-1853), and Amos G. Draper.
Biographies, obituaries, genealogical material, printed matter, photographs, compositions, newspapers, newspaper clippings, and pamphlets.
Letter from John Taylor Gilman to Josiah Bartlett (1729-1795).
The papers of Henry Shapiro (1906-1991) span the years 1920-1992 with most of the material concentrated between 1931 and 1973. The collection focuses principally on Shapiro's long career as United Press International's chief Moscow correspondent and bureau manager. Present during the regimes of Joseph Stalin, Nikita Khrushchev, and Leonid Brezhnev, Shapiro reported on a range of issues pertaining to Soviet society as well as many of the major events which shaped East/West relations during this period. The papers include wire service reports, reference files, correspondence, articles, lectures, a memoir, notes, and personal files organized in five series: Personal File, United Press International (UPI) Moscow Bureau, Speeches and Writings File, Additions, and Oversize. The collection includes English and Russian language material.
The Personal File provides a biographical profile of Shapiro based on correspondence, scrapbooks, clippings, photographs, and other material. Correspondence in the series is primarily with friends and colleagues concerning visits and travel plans. Other letters pertain to arrangements for lectures and issues related to publishing Shapiro's articles. The scrapbooks include material pertaining to his entire career as well as numerous felicitations on his retirement in 1973.
Shapiro's files from the United Press International Moscow Bureau constitute the heart of the collection. Shortly after arriving in Moscow in 1933 and briefly studying Soviet law, Shapiro became a correspondent for Reuters of London and the New York Herald Tribune. In 1937 he was hired by UPI and was appointed manager of its Moscow bureau in 1939. He retained that position until his retirement in 1973, concluding an unusually long career in a world capital in which foreign correspondents typically had much shorter periods of duty.
The Administrative File of the Moscow Bureau series reflects the organizational and financial aspects of the bureau documented in correspondence and memoranda regarding assignments, arrangements for interviews, and communications with other UPI offices and personnel. The file also includes financial records and contracts with Soviet personnel.
The Reference File includes Russian language newspaper clippings, printed matter, notes, and wire service reports pertaining to virtually every aspect of Soviet life and society. Because contact with many typical news sources was not available to Western reporters, Soviet newspapers and magazines were an important source of supplemental information and background material. Whitman Bassow, a UPI Moscow correspondent in the 1950s, notes in his book The Moscow Correspondents that "the key to comprehensive reporting was always the clipping file from the Soviet press and magazines and notes compiled by reporters." * Notable and extensive material in the Reference File pertains to agriculture, trials during the 1930s, biographies, Jews and Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union, elections, espionage, and the regime of Nikita Khrushchev. Foreign relations are documented by considerable material regarding Soviet relations with the United States and China. Files pertaining to China contain many reports on the deterioration of Sino-Soviet relations during the early 1960s.
* Bassow, Whitman, The Moscow Correspondents (New York: W. Morrow, c.1988), 299.
The Wire Service Reports in the UPI series were filed by the Moscow Bureau from 1931 to 1971. Although there are numerous gaps, the reports provide a comprehensive account of the Soviet Union during that time. The reports were often rewritten and shortened by editors in the United States, adding to the historical significance of the copies retained by Shapiro. There are a few incoming cable and telegraph messages from UPI's New York office from 1946 to 1948, but the file is primarily composed of the Moscow bureau's outgoing stories. Eugene Lyons, a predecessor of Shapiro's at UPI and an early Soviet sympathizer who left the Soviet Union in disillusionment in 1934, wrote many of the reports from 1931 to 1933. Reports from the mid-1930s cover social and economic conditions, foreign policy, political struggles, scientific advances, and aeronautical achievements. Events leading up to Germany's invasion of Russia are chronicled from 1939 through the summer of 1941. Reports are absent for 1942-1945, but resume in 1946 with many written by Walter Cronkite, who served as a UPI correspondent from 1946 to 1948. Shapiro was one of the few American reporters who remained in Moscow as the Cold War intensified during the late 1940s and early 1950s. Reports during the 1950s and 1960s are fairly complete and reflect the heightened tensions between the USSR and the United States. Prominent topics during this period include the rise and fall of Nikita Khrushchev, internal Soviet politics, the breakdown of relations with China, Fidel Castro and Cuba, the exploration of outer space, economic and domestic policies, Leonid Brezhnev's ascent to power, and the Viet Nam conflict.
The Speeches and Writings File contains drafts and printed copies of Shapiro's articles and drafts and newspaper serializations of his book, L'U.R.S.S. après Staline. Also included are interviews with Nikita Khrushchev (1957), Hungary's János Kádár (1966), and Nicolae Ceausescu (1972). After retiring from UPI, Shapiro continued to travel and lecture on the Soviet Union, and his files contain lecture notes and other related material. Other files include notes on détente, politics, and ideology, and a transcript of Shapiro's memoir recorded by the American Jewish Committee.
Addition I supplements the collection with correspondence, reference files, wire service reports, and speeches and writings files. The correspondence is composed chiefly of personal letters from professional colleagues and friends, including journalist Nicholas Daniloff during the early 1980s, and copies of some of Shapiro's letters. Reference files contain background material pertaining to Russian leaders, civil rights, education, and international incidents. The speeches and writings file includes draft articles, book projects, interviews, and material related to Shapiro's lecture schedule. Wire service reports relate primarily to relations between the United States and the Soviet Union during the 1960s. Notebooks in Addition II include handwritten notes from press conferences and interviews with Soviet officials as well as observations on conditions in the Soviet Union.
Correspondence, biographical material, clippings, photographs, scrapbooks, and miscellany.
Correspondence, financial records, and newsletters.
Clippings, printed matter, notes, wire service reports, and miscellany.
Copies of cables and telegrams.
Articles, book, interviews, lectures, memoir, and notes.
Two additions containing correspondence, notebooks, reference files, speeches and writings, wire service reports, photographs, personal file, and miscellany.
Newspaper serializations of Shapiro's book, L'U.R.S.S. après Staline.
The papers of Clement F. Haynsworth (1912-1989), span the years 1886-1989, with the majority of the papers concentrated from 1957 through 1989 when Haynsworth was a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. The papers consist of three series: Personal Correspondence, United States Court of Appeals File, and Miscellany. There are no materials documenting Haynsworth's early life, his military service, or his career as a lawyer. Papers related to Haynsworth's unsuccessful nomination to the United States Supreme Court are in the possession of Furman University located near Greenville, South Carolina.
The Personal Correspondence series includes incoming and outgoing correspondence relating to Haynsworth's personal interests and activities. Because many of Haynsworth's friends were members of the legal profession, some of these letters also relate to his professional activities. Interfiled throughout this series are a few letters of his wife, Dorothy Barkley Haynsworth. There is little personal correspondence prior to 1976.
The United States Court of Appeals File constitutes almost all of the collection. This series documents Haynsworth's more than thirty years of service on the fourth circuit (Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina). The papers are divided into three subseries: General Correspondence, Case File, and Office File. The General Correspondence subseries contains incoming and outgoing correspondence mainly from members of the legal profession and prisoners. The letters pertain primarily to fourth circuit administrative matters and contain complaints and pleas for legal assistance from prisoners. The "Congratulatory Correspondence" folder includes many letters to prominent members of the legal profession and government officials; a few of these letters contain comments by Haynsworth about his unsuccessful nomination to the Supreme Court. Other than the congratulatory correspondence, there is no correspondence prior to 1978.
The Case File subseries includes correspondence and memoranda, chiefly between judges, court clerks, and lawyers; opinions (drafts and printed copies); orders; briefs; writs; petitions; notes; background information; clippings; and printed matter. Many of the files also contain a sheet (photocopied from the outside of the original file folders during processing) that lists the judges on the panel, their votes (concurrences or dissents), and the concurrences or dissents of non-panel judges who reviewed the opinion. Cases are arranged chronologically by court term, October through June, and therein by case number. Opinions generated after June are filed in the previous October court term, e.g., an opinion written in August 1979 would be filed in the October 1978 term.
The majority of the case files pertain to civil cases and cases involving prisoner appeals and complaints. The files reflect the wide range of cases heard by the fourth circuit court on issues such as civil rights, constitutional law, labor relations, antitrust matters, maritime law, government regulations, and prisoners' rights. Many of the files for the terms from 1961 through 1967 contain only printed opinions; the Library did not receive any other material relating to these cases.
Also included in this subseries are cases documenting Haynsworth's occasional sittings on special three-judge district court cases (usually involving constitutional challenges to state statutes) and his service as a visiting judge for other circuits. These cases are filed at the end of the Case File subseries.
The Office File subseries relates to Haynsworth's administrative duties and professional activities during his tenure on the court of appeals. The files reflect his participation in judicial conferences and councils, admission ceremonies, legal organizations, and moot courts. Also documented are his interests in judicial conduct standards and in the creation of a national court of appeals that would reduce the Supreme Court's work load by hearing less important cases. An item worthy of note in this subseries is a thirty-six page document entitled "United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit," which provides a detailed description of the inner workings of the court (See the "General" file in container 166).
The final series in the papers, Miscellany includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, speeches, writings, photographs, genealogical material, and printed matter. The bulk of the series dates from 1957 to 1989 and relates to Haynsworth activities as an alumnus and member of the Advisory Council of Furman University.
The most significant and frequent of Haynsworth's correspondents are Jacques Barzun, William J. Brennan, Warren E. Burger, Tom C. Clark, John Paul Frank, Ernest F. Hollings, Edward Moore Kennedy, J. Woodrow Lewis, Daniel John Meador, Arthur R. Miller, Richard M. Nixon, Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Strom Thurmond, Johnnie McKeiver Walters, Bernard J. Ward, and Charles Alan Wright.
Correspondence with friends, acquaintances, family, colleagues, and the public, including attachments and enclosures such as clippings and printed matter.
Correspondence and memoranda, including attachments and enclosures, between Haynsworth and judges, lawyers, court staff, prisoners, and the public relating to judicial matters.
Correspondence, memoranda, opinions, orders, briefs, writs, petitions, notes, clippings and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, agendas and minutes of meetings, reports, notes, background information, invitations, clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, speeches, writings, agendas and minutes of meetings, photographs, genealogical material, clippings, and printed matter.
The papers of Benjamin S. Loeb (1914-) span the years 1945-1999, with the bulk of the material dating from 1961 to 1971. The papers concern Loeb's collaboration with Glenn Theodore Seaborg on several books concerning Seaborg's chairmanship of the Atomic Energy Commission from 1961 to 1971. The books, each of which focuses on a presidential administration, explore Seaborg's efforts to promote arms control and peaceful uses of nuclear power. The collection consists of research files containing excerpts from Seaborg's journal, correspondence, memoranda, cables, reports, minutes, interview transcripts, writings, speeches, newspaper clippings, and printed matter. The files are arranged alphabetically by subject or type of material.
A large portion of Loeb's research files consists of material culled from the Seaborg Papers located in this division. Loeb relied heavily on Seaborg's journal which contains diary-like entries supplemented by copies of correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, and printed matter. Loeb's files provide topical access to the chronologically-arranged journal on issues such as arms control and test ban treaties, the environment, fast breeder reactors, multilateral force, peaceful nuclear explosions, plowshare programs, and uranium enrichment. Many of the photocopied documents contain Loeb's annotations.
Loeb augmented his use of Seaborg's papers with research at the John F. Kennedy Library in Cambridge, Massachusetts, the Lyndon B. Johnson Library in Austin, Texas, and the National Archives and Records Administration in Washington, D.C. Files relating to the Limited Test Ban Treaty of 1963 include copies of State Department cables secured by Loeb through Freedom of Information Act requests. Also included in the collection are Loeb's correspondence and interviews with prominent former government officials including McGeorge Bundy, W. Averell Harriman, and Theodore C. Sorensen.
Featured in the collection is Loeb's investigation into allegations that Zalman Shapiro, president of the Nuclear Materials and Equipment Corporation of Pennsylvania, provided Israeli associates with nuclear secrets and enriched uranium in the 1960s. Included are copies of Federal Bureau of Investigation memoranda and reports attained by Loeb through the Freedom of Information Act.
The papers of Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) span the years from about the 6th century BCE to 1998, with the bulk of material dating from 1871 to 1939. The collection documents Freud's founding of psychoanalysis including the birth and maturation of psychoanalytic theory, the refinement of its clinical technique, and the proliferation of its adherents and critics. Many facets of Freud's life and work are featured including his early medical and clinical training; his relationship with family, friends, colleagues, students, and patients; his association with early psychoanalytic societies; his perspectives on analytical training; and his numerous writings. The collection includes family papers, correspondence, holograph and typewritten drafts of writings, patient case files, legal documents, estate records, receipts, military and school records, certificates, notebooks, a pocket watch, a Greek statue, genealogical data, interviews, research files, exhibit material, bibliographies, lists, photographs and drawings, newspaper and magazine clippings, and other printed matter. The papers are arranged in ten series: Family Papers, General Correspondence, Subject File, Writings, Supplemental File, Interviews and Recollections, Additions, Artifacts and Painting, Closed, and Oversize. They are, for the most part, in German, English, and French.
The bulk of the collection consists of original documents, photocopies and other facsimiles, transcripts, English translations, and published editions collected and given to the Library of Congress by the Sigmund Freud Archives. The archives was founded in 1951 by a group of New York analysts, including K. R. Eissler, Heinz Hartmann, Ernst Kris, Bertram David Lewin, and Herman Nunberg, to collect Freud letters and writings which were at risk of being lost or destroyed in the aftermath of World War II. Because Freud did not retain copies of his outgoing correspondence, letters written by him were geographically dispersed among his many correspondents. The archives succeeded in obtaining original Freud material through gifts, most notably Anna Freud's bequest, and through purchase. When unable to acquire original documents, it solicited copies, transcripts, translations, and printed editions.
The Family Papers series contains Freud's correspondence with members of the Freud and Bernays families. Included are exchanges with his mother Amalia Freud, his wife Martha Freud, and their children Ernst L., Martin, Mathilde Freud Hollitscher, Oliver, Sophie Freud Halberstadt, and Anna, the only one of Freud's children to become a psychoanalyst. Among Freud's correspondence with his wife are a series of courtship letters or “brautbriefe” written on an almost daily basis between 1882 and 1886. The letters detail Freud's activities, associations, and aspirations during the period following his graduation from medical school to the establishment of his private practice in Vienna. Extensive correspondence with his sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews, grandchildren, and in-laws reveals the part played by Freud as paternal head of a large and extended family. Among these letters is correspondence between Freud and Minna Bernays, his sister-in-law and close confidante. The series also contains correspondence between individual family members other than Freud as well as correspondence between family members and persons outside the family. Included are letters by several prominent individuals including Princess Marie Bonaparte, Ruth Mack Brunswick, C. G. Jung, and Otto Rank. A subject file containing legal documents, certificates, estate records, school records, writings, and printed matter also relates to Freud's family.
The General Correspondence series features Freud's correspondence with friends, mentors, colleagues, students, and patients spanning seven decades from his school days to his death in 1939. Nearly six hundred correspondents are represented in the series. At times, their correspondence is limited to a single letter to or from Freud. In other cases, the correspondence is extensive, revealing Freud as a prolific correspondent who frequently chastised others for a lack of similar diligence. The earliest of such correspondence consists of Freud's adolescent letters to friends Eduard Silberstein and Emil Fluss while a student at the Leopoldstädter gymansium and the University of Vienna. Freud's subsequent correspondence includes letters from individuals who influenced his early work including Josef Breuer and J. M. Charcot.
The formative years of Freud's psychoanalytic theories is detailed in his correspondence with Berlin physician Wilhelm Fliess. Beginning in 1887 and continuing until just after Freud's break with Fliess in 1902, these letters are among the more revealing in the collection. The series also contains Freud's correspondence with many of his earliest adherents, some of whom also later broke with him. The letters trace the development of a psychoanalytic movement that coalesced around Freud in the years following his break with Fliess. Included is correspondence with Karl Abraham, Alfred Adler, Franz Alexander, A. A. Brill, M. Eitingon, Sándor Ferenczi, Eduard Hitschmann, Ernest Jones, C. G. Jung, Oskar Pfister, Otto Rank, Theodor Reik, Hanns Sachs, Ernst Simmel, Wilhelm Stekel, and Edoardo Weiss, among many others. The Abraham, Brill, Eitingon, Jones, Jung, Pfister, and Reik correspondence includes original Freud letters. Prominent women in the field represented in the series include Lou Andreas-Salmoné, Ruth Mack Brunswick, Emma Eckstein, Jeanne Lampl-de Groot, and Joan Riviere. Princess Marie Bonaparte's correspondence with Freud is located in her papers in the Manuscript Division. Notable among Freud's patients with whom he corresponded is Sergius Pankejeff whom Freud referred to as the “Wolf-Man.” Other prominent correspondents include Albert Einstein with whom Freud corresponded on the nature of war, Carl Koller who shared Freud's interest in the medical uses of cocaine, and novelist and essayist Thomas Mann.
The Subject File series includes patient case files from the Allgemeines Krankenhaus in Vienna and the Bellevue Sanatorium in Kreuzlingen, Switzerland, largely during the 1880s. Copies of book annotations and marginalia by Freud provide glimpses into the development of his theories. His career is highlighted in a large file of newspaper and magazine clippings as well as material concerning the Goethe Prize he received in 1930 and the Nobel Prize which he coveted but never received. Calendars kept by Freud record his daily activities from 1916 to 1918. Freud's early life is documented by biographical data, birth and marriage certificates, and gymnasium, university, and military records. His departure from Nazi-controlled Austria and immigration to London in 1938 is tracked through American diplomatic cables and newspaper clippings. The series also contains letters and telegrams written on his death just over a year after his arrival in England.
The Writings series contains holograph and typewritten drafts, galley proofs, offprints, and published copies of many of Freud's writings. Because of the large format of many of these items, the material has been filed in the Oversize series. The writings range chronologically from an 1877 article on his early research on eels to portions of his last major work, Der Mann Moses und die monotheistische Religion, published shortly before his death. Included in the series are articles, case histories, portions of books, published letters, lecture notes, prefaces, introductions, a travel journal, chronologies, obituaries, bibliographic notes, and casual jottings. The writings are arranged and described largely according to the bibliographic sequence established by James Strachey in Indexes and Bibliographies, volume 24 of The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud (London, 1974) and, for works published after 1974, by Ingeborg Meyer-Palmedo and Gerhard Fichtner, Freud-Bibliographie mit Werkkonkordanz (Frankfurt am Main, 1989).
The Supplemental File series consists of material about Freud's life and work written or collected by Freud associates and scholars. The bulk of the material dates after Freud's death. Apart from articles and other writings, the series includes material related to observances in 1956 of the centenary of Freud's birth; Norman Kiel's compilation of contemporary and posthumous reviews of Freud's published works; and a medical file comprising correspondence, notes, and case histories by Hans Pichler and Max Schur relating to Freud's illness with cancer. Lists and research guides include Gerhard Fichtner's bibliographies, chronologies, lists, and inventories of Freud's correspondence and writings. Also included are auction catalogs listing the sale of Freudiana and lists of Freud's lectures and students at the University of Vienna. Miscellany at the end of the series consists primarily of printed matter including a clipping file dated largely between 1954 and 1979 which traces scholarly and popular treatment of Freud in the decades following his death.
The Interviews and Recollections series was compiled by K. R. Eissler, a founder and longtime secretary of the Sigmund Freud Archives. Hundreds of Eissler's interviews with Freud's associates, patients, and family are included in the series, most of them conducted in the 1950s. The series contains transcripts, some with corrections by the interviewee, and summaries of interviews, usually made when the subject requested that the interview not be tape recorded. Audio recordings that were made have been transferred to the Library's Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded Sound Division. Among those interviewed by Eissler are family members Anna Freud Bernays, Anna Freud, Ernestine Drucker Freud, Harry Freud, Oliver Freud, Judith Bernays Heller, and prominent associates such as Franz Alexander, Ludwig Binswanger, Felix Deutsch, Eduard Hitschmann, Edith Banfield Jackson, Ludwig Jekels, Sergius Pankejeff, Oskar Pfister, Theodor Reik, Joan Riviere, Philipp Sarasin, Hermann Swoboda, and Edoardo Weiss. Also included in the series are recollections about Freud contained in letters, writings, and notes either addressed to or collected by Eissler.
Artifacts in the collection consist of Freud's pocket watch which he gave to his personal physician Max Schur and a small Greek statue which Freud kept on his desk and later gave to Angelika Frink. The collection also includes an oil portrait of Freud.
An Additions series consists largely of supplemental material added to the collection in 2010. Included are photographs, wall text, and captions from exhibits commemorating the centenary of Freud's birth and an index to the standard edition of Freud's works. Files from the work of Herman and Margarete Nunberg include a history of the "Rat man" case and English translations by Margarete Nunberg of Freud's correspondence with Princess Marie Bonaparte, René Laforgue, and others. Photocopies of Freud's correspondence with writer Arnold Zweig, which were derestricted in 2010, are also present. The legibility of the photocopies varies considerably. A 2019 addition includes a letter from Freud to Paul Federn in 1913, in which he outlines his life history, and letters from Freud to Heinz Hartmann, 1927-1939, copies of which are in the General Correspondence series.
Correspondence between Sigmund Freud and members of the Freud and Bernays families. Some of the correspondence is accompanied by explanatory letters and notes.
Correspondence between members of the Freud and Bernays families other than Sigmund Freud and between family members and persons outside the family. Some of the correspondence is accompanied by explanatory letters and notes.
Legal documents, estate records, correspondence, writings, school records, immigration papers, certificates, genealogical data, photograph, and printed matter pertaining to or collected by members of the Freud and Bernays families.
Correspondence including original letters, photocopies, transcripts, translations, and related background material between Sigmund Freud and professional associates, friends, students, patients, and the public.
School, university, and military records; patient case files and record book; calendars; notes and notebooks; birth, citizenship, and marriage certificates; biographical data; birthday greetings; condolence letters; photocopies of book annotations and marginalia; financial and estate records; wills; and clippings and other printed matter.
Writings by Freud, including holograph manuscripts, typescripts, galley proofs, printed publications, and photocopies.
Writings, correspondence, lists, chronologies, bibliographies, inventories, notes, exhibit catalogs, invitations and programs, genealogical data, obituaries of Freud's associates, auction lists, medical notes, reviews of Freud's published writings, map and chart, newspaper clippings, and printed matter concerning Freud's life and work. Most of the material is dated after Freud's death.
Clippings, periodicals, reprints, newsletters, bylaws, rosters, programs, invitations, pictorial printed matter, catalogs, brochures, and publication notices.
Interviews with Freud associates, patients, and family members conducted by K. R. Eissler and recollections about Freud contained in correspondence, writings, and notes sent to or collected by Eissler.
Interviews with Freud associates, patients, and family members conducted by K. R. Eissler.
Correspondence, exhibit material, photographs, a case history, a recollection, an index, lists, and printed matter.
Pocket watch, a small Greek statue, and an oil portrait painting of Freud.
Interviews.
Writings, university and military records, legal documents, correspondence, patient case files, notes, exhibit material, newspaper clippings, family tree, sketch, photograph, and map and chart.
The collection of Spanish American documents of Hans Peter Kraus (1907-1988) spans the years 1433 to 1966, with the bulk of the items dated from the sixteenth through the eighteenth centuries. The collection relates to the history and culture of colonial Spanish America, including the early history of territories now part of the United States. Contained in the collection are colonial documents recording the exploration of the New World, the government of New Spain (Mexico), the administration of the Inquisition, taxation and economic conditions in the colonies, Spanish relationships with Native Americans and the French, and the loss of parts of the Spanish empire to American expansion. The collection includes material relating to explorers Amerigo Vespucci (1451-1512), Giovanni da Verrazzano (1485-1528), Alvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca (16th cent.), Pedro de Ursúa (d.1561), and Lope de Aguirre (d.1561). It also includes letters and documents from the archives of Juan de Zumárraga (1468-1548), bishop of Mexico, and his successors. The collection is in English, Spanish, French, and Italian and is organized in a Spanish American Documents series and a Miscellany series consisting of notes and printed matter providing descriptions and partial translations of the collection. The collection contains letters, decrees, order books, reports, instructions, dispatches, printed material, and miscellaneous legal documents arranged by number as listed in Hans P. Kraus Collection of Hispanic American Manuscripts prepared by J. Benedict Warren.
One of the earliest documents in the collection is a contemporary manuscript copy of Vespucci's letter to Piero Soderini (1452-1522), 10 September 1504, in which he discussed all four of his voyages (item 119). Verrazzano's explorations, including his survey of the eastern seaboard of North America, are documented in letters, documents, and transcripts relating to the explorer and his family (item 121). Contemporary narratives and a copy of a royal dispatch trace the history of Ursúa's and Aguirre's exploratory expedition down the Amazon River and the latter's subsequent mutiny (items 141-143). Three original documents highlight the family life of Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, a pioneer in the conquest of Mexico and the exploration of Florida (item 122). Other material concerning early attempts to colonize Florida and the territories north of Mexico are included in an order book maintained by Viceroy Luis de Velasco (1500?-1564) and his predecessor, Antonio de Mendoza (1492?-1552) (item 140); a volume of documents regarding Pedro de Céspedes Vallejo Diaz, a soldier who served in Florida (item 148); a letter of Diego Quiroga y Losada, governor of Florida (item 152); a treatise by Antonio de Arredondo on Spanish claims to the colony of Georgia; and the letters and documents of the Gourgues family, in particular a narrative manuscript of the expedition of Dominique de Gourgues (1530?-1593) to Florida, 1567-1568 (item 144). Five variant versions of Gourgues's narrative located in the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris, France (Fonds Français 2145, 3884, 6124, 19899, and 20794) have been reproduced on two reels of microfilm and are available in the Manuscript Division Reading Room. (Microfilm shelf no. 17,674)
A collection of decrees and letters, a majority of which resided in the archives of Zumárraga, relates primarily, though not exclusively, to the Catholic church in New Spain (items 1-116). In addition to ecclesiastical affairs, these items also document the government and administration of Mexico including its social structure and culture, public health, education, the arts, public works, and the living conditions of its native population. The documents bear the signatures of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor (1500-1558), and his wife, Isabel, Empress (1503-1539), and their son and daughter, Philip II, King of Spain (1527-1598), and Juana de Austria, Princess of Portugal (1535-1573), and their descendants, Philip III (1578-1621) and Philip IV (1605-1665), kings of Spain. Another set of documents concerning the civil administration of New Spain also illuminates the career of Zumárraga's colleague, Bartolomé de las Casas, bishop of Chiapas (items 123-139). These items reflect the development and impact of the New Laws of the Indies, 1542, and the colonists' reaction to them. Items pertaining to the Inquisition in Mexico include documents of the trial of artist Simón Pereyns (fl. 1558-1588) (item 145); material relating to Antonio and Diego Calderón and family, official printers to the Holy Office of the Inquisition (item 149); and a holograph and printed volume of the rules and regulations governing the fraternity of Saint Peter Martyr, a brotherhood consisting of members of the Inquisition (item 151).
Among the latest items in the collection are dispatches sent in 1819 from Mexico to Spain by Juan Ruiz de Apodaca which contain information on the government, condition, and defense of the Spanish territories that are now part of the United States, including Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California, with references to American forces and settlements in Louisiana and Florida (item 162).
Letters, decrees, order books, reports, instructions, dispatches, printed material, and miscellaneous legal documents relating to the history of Spanish America.
Notes and printed material of descriptions and partial translations of the collection.
The papers of Asa Philip Randolph (1889-1979) span the years 1909-1979, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1941-1968. The collection comprises the following series: Family Correspondence of Lucille Randolph with her husband and documents relating to her death; General Correspondence; a Subject File which includes correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, reports, and other documents relating to the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the Fair Employment Practices Committee (FEPC), and the March on Washington Movement; a Speeches and Writings File; a Biographical File; and Miscellany including address books, appointment books, awards, press releases, printed matter, scrapbooks, travel documents, and other material.
Although there is little material relating to Randolph's career before 1941, the collection highlights his life's work of more than sixty years as an African American union leader and civil rights advocate. The papers reflect Randolph's dedication to securing political, social, and economic rights for African Americans and illustrate the means he favored to accomplish these goals. The General Correspondence, Subject File, and Speeches and Writings File document Randolph's strategy for obtaining his goals. Numerous letters, speeches, and articles reveal his concept of mass protests and passive resistance without violence emulating the tactics of Mohandas K. Gandhi in the struggle for India's independence from Great Britain. Before implementing his strategy of mass protests and passive resistance by means of picketing and the March on Washington Movement, Randolph sought the advice of friends, African American leaders, educators, and organizations concerning his strategy for obtaining political, social, and economic freedom for African Americans. When some of the leadership, including that of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, withheld support, Randolph became convinced that he needed to reach the masses.
Randolph was successful in implementing the tactics of a massive march. On June 25, 1941, Franklin Roosevelt signed Executive Order 8802 which provided for the first Fair Employment Practices Committee (FEPC). Further pressure led Roosevelt to issue Executive Order 9346 on May 27, 1943, establishing a new FEPC, whose jurisdiction included all employment by government contractors and whose authority was expected to encompass discrimination in labor union membership as well as discrimination in employment. The papers document the FEPC until it expired in 1946. The papers also show the NAACP's eventual support for Randolph by donating funds and, in later years, through other methods of cooperation.
Documents relating to the aftermath of a White House meeting, March 22, 1948, between President Harry S. Truman and Randolph and other African American leaders reveal that Randolph and Grant Reynolds threatened civil disobedience if African Americans were forced to register for a compulsory military draft, and on March 31, 1948, Randolph and Reynolds initiated a civil disobedience campaign against military discrimination. Truman issued Executive Orders 9980 and 9981 on July 26, 1948, creating a Fair Employment Board to combat racial discrimination in Federal employment and a President's Committee on Equality of Treatment and Opportunity in the Armed Services. The civil disobedience threat was called off. During the Korean War, Truman issued Executive Order 10210 forbidding discrimination by government contractors and Executive Order 10308 creating the President's Committee on Government Contract Compliance. Executive orders during the administration of Dwight D. Eisenhower include the issuance on August 13, 1953, of Executive Order 10479 reconstituting the Contract Compliance Agency and placing it under the chairmanship of the vice president, and the issuance on January 18, 1955, of Executive Order 10590 establishing the President's Committee on Government Policy to enforce a nondiscrimination policy in federal employment.
The Subject File also includes information on the African American labor movement. Financial and legal papers, correspondence, and other material, 1925-1978, relate to the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters founded by Randolph and others in 1925. The Messenger, a magazine founded and edited by Randolph and Chandler Owen in 1917, was converted into the Black Worker, which became the official organ of the brotherhood. Also in the Subject File are papers documenting the Pullman Company's refusal to recognize the union as a bargaining agent for the porters and maids of the railroad companies. Subsequently, Randolph, as president of the union, petitioned the National Mediation Board, the Arbitration Board, and the Interstate Commerce Commission and won recognition for the union. In 1935, he succeeded in having the Pullman porters classified as railroad men, thereby entitling them to all associated benefits, and on August 25, 1937, the Pullman Company signed its first agreement with its porters, attendants, and maids.
The collection also relates to other topics that Randolph considered to be vital to African Americans, such as the relationship of African Americans to Africa. In 1962, the American Negro Leadership Conference on Africa was formed with Randolph and Martin Luther King, Jr., as co-chairs. Its purpose was to coordinate relations between African Americans and Africa. Other topics highlighted in this collection include the Prayer Pilgrimage held in Washington, D.C., May 17, 1957; the Youth March for Integrated Schools, October 25, 1958; the Negro American Labor Council, 1960-1968, founded by Randolph; National Educational Committee for a New Party, 1946-1947; the White House Conference "To Fulfill These Rights," 1965-1966; and the "Freedom Budget for All Americans," 1966-1967, a ten-year program conceived by Randolph as a means of abolishing poverty in the United States. Some documents indicate that Randolph in later life believed that the time was over for mass marches and demonstrations such as the one he had proposed in 1941 and the one he had organized and led in 1963 for freedom and jobs. As a result of his successes with the labor unions and with presidents from Roosevelt to Johnson, he was convinced that quiet negotiations and consultations should be sufficient.
Correspondents include Hazel Alves, Theodore E. Brown, Charles Wesley Burton, Roberta Church, Thurman L. Dodson, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lester B. Granger, William Green, Anna Arnold Hedgeman, Anna Rosenberg Hoffman, Hubert H. Humphrey, Maida Springer Kemp, Lyndon B. Johnson, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King., Jr., Rayford Whittingham Logan, Emanuel Muravchik, Philip Murray, Chandler Owen, Cleveland H. Reeves, Walter Reuther, Grant Reynolds, Eleanor Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Norman Thomas, Harry S. Truman, Wyatt Tee Walker, Walter Francis White, Roy Wilkins, and Aubrey Willis Williams.
Correspondence of Lucille Randolph with her husband and documents relating to her death.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, and miscellaneous attachments.
Correspondence, court cases and agreements, memoranda, legal and financial papers, minutes of meetings and conferences, reports and drafts, newspaper clippings, notes, printed and near-print material, proceedings, and related material.
Typewritten drafts and near-print copies of speeches, articles, an autobiographical essay, statements, remarks, and miscellaneous related matter.
Interviews, notes, printed matter, and other biographical material.
Address books, appointment books, scrapbooks, awards, certificate, miscellany, telephone directories, press releases, printed matter, shorthand notebooks, and travel documents.
Scrapbooks.
The papers of Anna Elizabeth Dickinson (1842-1932) span the period 1859-1951, but are chiefly concentrated in the years 1859-1911. The collection consists of Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings File, Legal File, and a Miscellany series including financial papers, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and research notes of Giraud Chester, Dickinson's biographer. There are also a small Addition and an Oversize series.
Anna Dickinson's papers treat all aspects of her life and include correspondence with the men and women of her circle throughout the country. Although Dickinson did not make copies of most of her letters, she obtained many of the letters she wrote while on national lecture tours to Mary Dickinson, her mother, and Susan Dickinson, her journalist sister. The correspondence described her travel itineraries, her impressions, and her joys and misgivings. They show the reactions of a person whose plays and performances, including A Crown of Thorns and The Test of Honor, were not well received. By 1900 she was estranged from her sister Susan, formerly her closest friend and housemate, and had outlived most of her associates. As recorded in the legal file and in her scrapbooks, she intiated several lawsuits between 1895 and 1901 as a result of her confinement at the State Hospital for the Insane in Danville, Pennsylvania. Other topics include the elections of 1872 and 1888, the Republican Party, psychiatric hospital and her confinement to the State Hospital for the Insane, the Civil War and Reconstruction, and education.
The Speeches and Writings File, contains several of Dickinson's earliest speeches and stage manuscripts. Those not present are often documented by newspaper clippings and scrapbooks. A notebook in the Legal File records her experiences at the State Hospital for the Insane. Only obituaries and a few financial papers relate to her final two decades.
Correspondents include William B. Allison, Susan B. Anthony, Samuel Bowles, Noah Brooks, Benjamin F. Butler, Fanny Davenport, Frederick Douglass, Ellen Everett, Thomas Wentworth Higginson, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Wendell Phillips, Samuel C. Pomeroy, Whitelaw Reid, Carl Schurz, Theodore Tilton, Mark Twain, Charles Dudley Warner, and John Greenleaf Whittier.
Letters sent by Anna Dickinson and received from her mother, sister, brother, and other family members.
Letters received and copies of letters sent by Dickinson, including postcards, calling card messages, telegrams, and enclosed material.
Speeches, plays, and miscellaneous unidentified notes and manuscripts.
Correspondence, court records, notebook of confinement, and miscellaneous legal documents.
Address books, calling cards, financial papers, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and other miscellaneous subject and printed matter concerning Dickinson, including research material compiled by Giraud Chester.
Correspondence, photographs, engraving plates, printed matter, scrapbooks, and other papers.
Oversize scrapbooks.
The papers of Thomas Francis Bayard (1828-1898) consist of correspondence, letterbooks, financial records, legal papers, notes, reports, memoranda, photographs, speeches, printed matter, scrapbooks, and related material. The collection spans the years 1780-1899, with the bulk of the material dated 1860-1898.
The papers relate generally to Bayard's career as a senator, 1869-1885, secretary of state during President Grover Cleveland's first administration, 1885-1889, and as ambassador to Great Britain, 1893-1897, during Cleveland's second administration. The collection contains files pertaining to real estate and financial matters, national politics, the Fitz-John Porter case, Samoa, fisheries and sealing questions, the Venezuelan boundary dispute, Anglo-American and German-American relations, presidential campaigns, the silver question, the Tilden-Hayes election, tariff problems, Sir Lionel S. Sackville-West, the conflict between China and Japan over the vassalage of Korea, American annexation of Hawaii, and the Isthmian transit and canal problem.
Correspondents in addition to members of the Bayard family include Alvey Augustus Adee, James Burrill Angell, George Baden-Powell, James A. Bayard, August Belmont, Perry Belmont, William Campbell Preston Breckinridge, Henry L. Bryan, M. C. Butler, John Lee Carroll, Eugene Casserly, Joseph Chamberlain, Grover Cleveland, Samuel S. Cox, Charles Denby, Donald M. Dickinson, Henry A. DuPont, Charles W. Eliot, William C. Endicott, William M. Evarts, Charles S. Fairchild, Hamilton Fish (1808-1893), Worthington C. Ford, Edward M. Gallaudet, Augustus H. Garland, John Brown Gordon, Walter Q. Gresham, Wade Hampton, George F. Hoar, William Henry Hurlbert, Lucius Q. C. Lamar, Daniel S. Lamont, Robert Todd Lincoln, Daniel Manning, Thomas C. Manning, Manton Marble, Robert M. McLane, John Bassett Moore, Justin S. Morrill, Richard Olney, Walter Hines Page, George Foster Peabody, George H. Pendleton, Edward John Phelps, Lord Lyon Playfair, Fitz-John Porter, Sir Lionel S. Sackville-West, Carl Schurz, John Sherman, William T. Sherman, Oscar S. Straus, William F. Vilas, David Ames Wells, Francis Wharton, Henry White, Horace White, William C. Whitney, and Owen Wister.
Bound volumes of letters received with occasional drafts of letters sent and telegrams, memoranda, and related reports, speeches, financial records, papers, printed matter, and newspaper clippings.
Letters and telegrams received and drafts of correspondence sent.
Letterpress and carbon copies of outgoing correspondence in three groupings from Bayard's career as secretary of state and ambassador to Great Britain. There is some overlapping between series.
Announcements, calling cards, greeting cards, certificates, financial records, genealogical material, legal papers, maps, notes, drafts, reports, memoranda, transcripts, photographs, speeches, printed matter, and various topical files.
Bound volumes of newspaper clippings and printed matter. There is considerable overlapping between volumes.
Maps and scrapbooks arranged and described according to the series, containers, and folders from which the items were removed.
The papers of Juanita Kidd Stout (1919-1998) span the years 1873-1998, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1948 and 1998. In October 1959, the governor of Pennsylvania appointed Stout a judge of the municipal court in Philadelphia County while she was a candidate for the post in the Philadelphia municipal elections. That November, she won a ten-year term on the court, thus becoming the first African American woman appointed or elected judge of a court of record or general jurisdiction in the United States. In 1988, when she was appointed to the Pennsylvania supreme court, Stout became the first African American female justice on a state supreme court. The papers are organized in the following series: Personal File, General Correspondence, Legal File, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, and Oversize.
The family papers of the Personal File include material on Stout's parents, Henry M. and Mary A. Kidd, who emigrated from Missouri and Mississippi respectively to settle in Seminole County, Oklahoma, when the state was still a territory. The family file also includes material on the Kidd and Chandler families and on Charles O. Stout, a college professor and Juanita Kidd Stout's husband.
Correspondents in the General Correspondence series include Lawrence L. Boger, David L. Boren, John W. Hamilton, Gail Nelson, Henry Ponder, Richard S. Schweiker, and Arlen Specter.
Most of the Legal File documents Juanita Kidd Stout's service on the municipal court and the court of common pleas, both for Philadelphia County, and as a justice of the Pennsylvania supreme court. She developed an interest in juvenile delinquency, youth gangs, and welfare while serving as an assistant district attorney for Philadelphia County during the 1950s, and once on the municipal court she was noted for her outspokenness on these issues in the local and national media, for her tough sentencing of recalcitrant juvenile offenders, and for her continuing contact with juvenile offenders she found to be redeemable.
The bulk of Stout's service was as a judge specializing in murder trials on the court of common pleas. Most of the common pleas case files relate to trials or hearings where she rendered a written opinion. These were usually either bench trials, where she sat without a jury and ruled on both the facts and the law in a case, or en banc hearings, the first stage of the appellate process in Pennsylvania, where she sat with other judges to hear post-trial motions. She also retained files about cases in which there was a great deal of media interest, such as the Ira Einhorn trial, or in which she had a special interest in the legal issues or the defendants. Some cases not found in the municipal court or court of common pleas case files are documented in newspaper clippings in the Personal File series.
Stout's tenure on the Pennsylvania supreme court was brief, 1988-1989, because she was close to the Commonwealth's mandatory retirement age when appointed. Much of the supreme court case file is taken up with actions against corrupt or otherwise troubled Pennsylvania judges. In rel. Stout relates to her unsuccessful effort to remain on the supreme court despite the mandatory retirement rule.
Other cases in which Stout was involved include Stout v. Helm, part of the Pennsylvania judicial elections file related to challenges of her nomination petitions when she ran unsuccessfully for a superior court judgeship in 1966, and Stout v. W. W. Norton & Co., in which she successfully sued journalist Linn Washington and his publisher in 1995 for allegedly defaming her in his book on African American judges, Black Judges on Justice.
The estates grouping of the Legal File includes material related to Stout's service as executor of the estate of her close friend, lawyer, and civic and civil rights activist Sadie T. M. Alexander, one of the first African American women awarded a doctorate degree in the United States and the first Black woman to graduate from the University of Pennsylvania Law School and admitted to the Pennsylvania Bar.
Stout tracked colleagues and African American and female pioneers of bar and bench through an extensive biographical file that is part of the Subject File. Many lawyers and judges whose careers she followed were also correspondents, including Raymond P. Alexander, Sadie T. M.. Alexander, Anne X. Alpern, Genevieve Blatt, Jean M. Capers, Mahala A. Dickerson, William H. Hastie, Charles H. Houston, Frederica Massiah-Jackson, Robert N. C. Nix, Leah Sears-Collins, Charles Z. Smith, Arlen Spector, and Ronald A. White.
Biographical material, family papers, correspondence, awards, newspaper clippings, estate papers, scrapbooks, and printed matter.
Correspondence with attached material between Stout and friends, professional associates, businesses, and the public related to personal and professional activities and public issues.
Case files, administrative files, dockets, correspondence, printed matter, topical files, and miscellaneous material.
Printed matter, photographs, correspondence, organizational records, and miscellaneous material.
Articles, speeches, event programs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Docket, Municipal Court, Philadelphia County, Pa.
The papers of Lucy Kroll (1909-1997) span the years 1908-1998, with the bulk of the material dating from 1950 to 1990. The papers are organized in the following series: Client File, Miscellany, Office File, and Oversize.
The Client File forms the largest part of the papers. The Lucy Kroll Agency managed the careers of numerous clients in the fields of dance, journalism, literature, motion pictures, music, poetry, psychology, science, sociology, television, and theater. The amount of material for each client is uneven. It ranges from one folder to eighty-two boxes depending on the client's success and longevity with the agency. Therefore, not all types of material are found in every client's file. Typical material includes contracts, referred to as representation agreements, between the client and the Lucy Kroll Agency as well as work contracts between the clients and their employers; incoming and outgoing correspondence between the agency, the clients, and employers; and notes written primarily by Lucy Kroll during negotiations on behalf of her clients. Many files contain financial records such as royalty statements or box office receipts. Also present is publicity material in the form of photographs, playbills, and press clippings. Files of the theatrical clients often include scripts of plays they were considering or in which they appeared. Files of other clients might include various forms of their writings, such as typescripts or printing proofs. Some clients' files contain material called submissions, a process by which the agency submits an actor's name in response to a general casting call by a producer.
The Client File documents the association between Lucy Kroll and her clients. In most cases it went beyond a business arrangement and developed into a deep friendship and mentoring relationship. Kroll often handled the personal affairs of her clients, including financial support and medical care. Notable clients included E. R. (Edward Ricardo) Braithwaite, Ruby Dee and Ossie Davis, Vincent J. Donehue, Lillian Gish, Joanna M. Glass, Martha Graham, Uta Hagen, Helen Hayes, Dorothy Fields (estate of), Horton Foote, Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, James Earl Jones, Daniel and Dorothea G. Petrie, Carl Sandburg, Kim Stanley, Howard Teichmann, and Fritz Weaver.
The Miscellany series contains family papers, material for Kroll's unfinished memoirs, and scripts. The family papers include correspondence with family and personal friends, drama school notes, and household papers. The memoirs section consists entirely of tributes from friends and colleagues which Kroll intended to incorporate into her memoirs. The scripts do not have an identifiable association with any of her clients but may have been under consideration for various projects.
The Office File documents the operations of the Lucy Kroll Agency. Included are daily appointment books, material relating to national and international business trips, financial records, notes, and items relating to prospective clients and projects. Incoming and outgoing correspondence records negotiations with other literary and talent agencies, as well as with publishers, studios, theaters, producers, and various professionals in the literary and entertainment fields. The “deal memoranda file” served the office staff as a quick reference source for the terms of each client's contracts. A Christmas cards and gifts section documents the many “extras” that Kroll extended to clients she considered especially important.
Contracts, correspondence, financial records, notes, photographs, printed material, and scripts.
Address books, awards, correspondence between family members and friends, personal financial records, notes, photographs, printed material, and scripts.
Account books, appointment books, client fact sheets and lists, commissions, correspondence, deal memoranda, expense accounts, notes, and tax records.
Awards, posters, photographs, and printed matter.
The papers of Montgomery Cunningham Meigs (1816-1892) span the years 1799-1971, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1849-1892. The collection consists of diaries, journals and notebooks, family papers, correspondence, drawings, maps and plans, photographs, scrapbooks, sketches and studies, and miscellaneous documents. The papers are organized in seven series: Diaries, Journals, and Notebooks; Family Papers; Correspondence, Military Orders, and Related Matter; Miscellany; Addition I; Addition II; and Oversize.
Meigs was a career army officer who graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1836. After a brief stint in an artillery unit, he was transferred to the Corps of Engineers, where he directed engineering projects for the United States Army between 1852 and 1882. Among the building programs Meigs supervised were the Washington, D.C., aqueduct and its masonry arch at Cabin John, the wings and dome of the national Capitol, an addition to the General Post Office building, a post-Civil War extension of the aqueduct, and from 1882 to 1892 after his retirement from the army, the Pension Office building. Lincoln put Meigs in charge of secret plans for the aid of Fort Pickens, Florida, immediately before the outbreak of the Civil War and in June 1861 appointed him quartermaster general of the army. Meigs supplied the Union forces throughout the war and supervised the construction of at least four major federal buildings. In 1875 he visited Europe to study the organization and command of continental armies.
The papers in this collection consist mostly of private entry books and personal correspondence. Although some material relates to the fighting during the Civil War, the bulk of the papers deals with the construction of federal buildings in Washington. Meigs's journals contain detailed notes in mid-nineteenth century shorthand on the planning for the aqueduct as well as the expansion of the Capitol and the erection of the Pension Office building. Interspersed throughout the journals and sketchbooks are clippings, photographs, and architectural drawings of major buildings under various stages of construction. The combination of written and illustrative material provides a rich source for the study of nineteenth-century Washington and its architecture.
The Family Papers contain correspondence and printed items from Meigs's immediate relatives and descendants. The major portion, however, comprises his letters to his father, Charles D. Meigs, his brother, Emlen, and his wife, Louisa Rodgers Meigs. The letters to his father, a Philadelphia surgeon and medical editor, are concentrated in the Civil War period; those to his wife and other family members are focused on Meigs's trip to Europe in 1875.
Correspondents in the Meigs Papers include Spencer Fullerton Baird, James Buchanan, Bernhard Ernst von Bülow, Adolf Cluss, Jefferson Davis, Charles P. Manning, Graf Helmuth von Moltke, David D. Porter, Frederick William Seward, William T. Sherman, and Joseph Gilbert Totten. The letterbook, much of which is illegible or undecipherable, contains copies of outgoing letters to family members as well as friends and associates and also includes numerous drawings. The volume for April 1861-February 1862 pertains exclusively to the Civil War, while later volumes focus principally on architectural projects.
Addition I
Addition I of the Meigs Papers parallels the earlier portion in scope, arrangement, and content. There are unbound diary entries, a commonplace book from Meigs's first years in the military, and an illustrated journal which he kept during a trip to Texas, 1869-1870. The Family Papers, the dominant feature of Addition I, include letters between his wife, Louisa Rodgers Meigs, and Rodgers family members and correspondence between Montgomery Meigs, his wife and family members, and other relatives. Especially notable in the Family Papers is a sequence of personal and official communications regarding the killing of Meigs's eldest son, John Rodgers Meigs, by Confederate guerrillas in 1864. Meigs believed that his son was the victim of a cold-blooded murder, possibly because of his status as the son of the Union quartermaster general. John Rodgers Meigs had been heralded for his bravery during early battles of the Civil War, and his hand-drawn map of the First Battle of Bull Run and other Civil War documents and correspondence amplify other material in the collection from that period. Also prominent in Addition I are letters, documents, sketches, drawings, and other designs relating to Montgomery Meigs's work on construction of the Capitol, the Washington Aqueduct, and other Army Corps of Engineers projects. Noteworthy as well are correspondence and career papers pertaining specifically to the younger Montgomery Meigs (1847-1931), who followed in his father's footsteps as a public works engineer.
Correspondents include family members Charles D. Meigs and Samuel Emlen Meigs (who often used his middle rather than first name or first initial) and prominent individuals such as Ambrose Everett Burnside, Simon Cameron, Jefferson Davis, John B. Floyd, Horace Greeley, Joseph Henry, Joseph Holt, George Brinton McClellan, William Henry Seward, and Edwin MacMasters Stanton.
Addition II
Addition II includes a Book of Common Prayer inscribed by Meigs and carried by him to Fort Pickens at the start of the Civil War; a handwritten letter of 1879 concerning personal matters; and photocopies of two typewritten letters, dated 1891, to his daughter, Louisa Meigs Forbes. Also in Addition II are photocopies and typed transcripts of a poem written by John Rodgers Meigs, presumably while a cadet at the United States Military Academy between 1859 and 1863, and six volumes of the translated text of Meigs's shorthand journals, 1853-1859, 1861, as well as an index to the journals.
Pocket diaries, bound diaries, unbound diary entry sheets, extracts of diaries, and memoranda notebooks and journals with writings, notations, photographs, and drawings. The journals are largely in shorthand.
Correspondence, diaries, clippings, printed matter, reminiscences, wills, obituaries, and related matter.
Correspondence sent and received, with related printed matter, army decrees, and memoranda and copies of bound outgoing correspondence by Meigs.
Account books, financial matter, drawings, maps, photographs, printed matter, reminiscences, scrapbooks, miscellaneous notes and writings, and sketches.
Unbound diary entries, a journal of a trip to Texas, 1867, consisting of letters sent by Meigs and sketches he compiled, and a commonplace book containing what may be the key to his shorthand code.
Correspondence between family members, with additional items such as wills, school papers, military reports, and reminiscences.
Correspondence sent and received by Meigs with related printed matter, military orders and decrees, financial data, and official memoranda. The material is divided into a general file of papers sent and received and a letterbook file containing only copies of letters sent by Meigs.
Biographical data; insurance, estate, and financial matter; specifications and contract material regarding the building of the Washington Aqueduct; drawings, sketches, and watercolors; house design data collected by Meigs; and miscellaneous photographs and printed matter.
An inscribed Book of Common Prayer, correspondence, poetry by John Rodgers Meigs, and translated texts of shorthand journals.
Drawings, watercolors, plans, photographs, maps, and printed matter, some of which were removed from bound volumes.
The papers of Philip Henry Sheridan (1831-1888) span the years 1853 to 1896, with the bulk of the material originating between 1862 and 1887. The collection includes correspondence, reports, orders, memorabilia, scrapbooks, commissions, financial records, and speeches organized in the following series: General Correspondence, Autograph Letters, Letterbooks, Field Dispatches and Telegrams  Military Papers, Subject File, Book and Speech File, Miscellany, Scrapbooks, and Oversize.
The papers relate chiefly to the Civil War, Reconstruction, Mexican border disputes, Indian wars, and military administration. There is very little material concerning Sheridan's family and personal life. Dominated by correspondence and reports, the papers document Sheridan's service as an army commander in the Civil War and his postwar commands up to and including that of commanding general of the United States Army. The papers also include material relating to George A. Forsyth's Europe-Asia observation tour; the Piegan expedition; Gouverneur K. Warren's court of inquiry; Rebecca Wright, a Federal spy at Winchester, Virginia; reconnaissance of Bighorn Mountain and the valleys of the Bighorn and Yellowstone rivers; and Henry Page's letterbooks as quartermaster for the Army of the Potomac. Correspondents include George A. Forsyth (aide and secretary), James W. Forsyth, Ulysses S. Grant, Michael V. Sheridan (his brother), and William T. Sherman. There are two letters from Abraham Lincoln to Sheridan, September 20 and October 22, 1864.
Included also is a draft of Sheridan's published memoirs. Following the destruction of some of Sheridan's papers in the Chicago fire of 1871, a large number of transcripts were made from the records of the War Department by his secretaries. These transcripts have been interfiled with the surviving original papers.
Letters, telegrams, and memoranda sent and received.
Letters received from William T. Sherman and Ulysses S. Grant and miscellaneous letters sent by Sheridan.
Copies of letters sent and received.
Field dispatches and telegrams sent and received.
Endorsements, official correspondence of the Department of the Gulf, operations reports, orders, and reports.
Correspondence, telegram books, reports, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Drafts of memoirs and speeches.
Biographical material, citations, charges and specifications against Sheridan, commissions, contingent fund records, memorabilia, newspaper clippings, personal financial records, printed matter, and expressions of sympathy.
Mounted newspaper clippings.
Commissions.
The papers of Jedediah Hotchkiss (1828-1899) span the years 1835-1908, with the bulk of the material dating from 1875 to 1898. The papers reflect his varied activities as a student, geologist, lecturer, school teacher, engineer, soldier, and historian. Hotchkiss's Civil War diaries, notebooks, and journals describe troop movements and battles and reveal a topographer's keen eye for the physical lay of the land. In addition to the original diaries, there are handwritten and typewritten copies or extracts which either vary somewhat from the originals or contain additional information.
Some of Hotchkiss's most informative letters are to his wife, Sara Comfort Hotchkiss, and his brother, Nelson Hotchkiss, during his military duty, 1861-1865. These letters, with variant copies, are in the Family Correspondence series. Other family correspondence includes Hotchkiss's letters to his wife and children, 1872-1875, while he was touring England and correspondence of Sara Hotchkiss, 1853-1903.
The General Correspondence series, the largest in the collection, includes personal and business correspondence, many of which relate to Hotchkiss's involvement with various land and mining ventures in West Virginia, particularly with the Gauley Coal Company, the Guyandot Coal Land Association, and the North Flat-Top Land Association. Between 1875 and 1899, much of the correspondence is concerned with details of Civil War engagements and the publication of Hotchkiss's books. He corresponded frequently with former staff officers of Stonewall Jackson, such as William Allan and Hunter McGuire. There is also correspondence with Jubal Anderson Early, John Brown Gordon, and Fitzhugh Lee. Other correspondents include James Gillespie Blaine, William E. Chandler, Robert Lewis Dabney, John W. Daniel, Stephen B. Elkins, Stonewall Jackson, Joseph LeConte, Robert E. Lee, William Mahone, S. S. McClure, Dwight Lyman Moody, John Pelham, Jeb Stuart, Henry St. George Tucker, and Henry A. Wise.
The Subject File reflects Hotchkiss's entrepreneurial and scholarly interests and includes drafts and notes of his writings and newspaper clipping files on diverse subjects. The Subject File also includes copies of William Barton Rogers's notebooks concerning his geological survey of Virginia, 1835-1841. There is no material in this collection associated with Hotchkiss's political activities as an independent Congressional candidate in 1884.
The Miscellany series contains genealogical records of the Hotchkiss and Beecher families. This series also contains financial records in the form of account books, canceled checks, bank notes, and bills and receipts.
Bound diaries and loose diary pages, with transcripts and extracts of diary entries.
Mining field notes, work logs, and coal analyses.
Correspondence of Jedediah Hotchkiss, Sara Anne Comfort Hotchkiss, and other members of Hotchkiss family.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, maps, tracings, sketches, notes, printed matter, and legal documents.
Books, articles, essays, speeches, lectures, book reviews, and notes.
Scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, genealogical and autobiographical material, financial records, printed matter, and legal papers.
The papers of George Lardner (1934-2019) span the years 1923-2005 with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 to 2001. The collection focuses on Lardner's career as an investigative reporter with the Washington Post and extensively documents his research into a wide variety of national news stories. The papers are arranged into two parts described below.
Part I
Part I of the Lardner papers span the years 1923-1997, with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 to 1995 and documents his career as a reporter and as a commentator in other journals and magazines. Lardner maintained topical files that are organized as an alphabetical Subject File series comprising the majority of the papers. A small Miscellany series completes the collection.
The Subject File reflects the manner in which Lardner acquired, received, and pursued information and then developed his research into news stories. It includes Lardner's articles, correspondence, interviews, notes, and the research material he collected as documentary evidence. Research material includes newspaper and related clippings, reports, legal documents and trial records, government documents, some of which were obtained through Freedom of Information Act requests, congressional hearing records, photographs, and printed matter. Although Lardner's subject terms have been largely retained, personal names have been modified where necessary to conform to name authority standards of the Library of Congress.
Lardner's long tenure with the Washington Post allowed him to follow topics for many years, reporting from various angles as fresh information became available. Subjects branch into subcategories for ongoing stories of several years' duration, such as the court cases of the Iran-Contra Affair. In other instances, succeeding stories arise out of new lines of inquiry. Lardner's files on the Central Intelligence Agency, for example, contain material from twenty years of news gathering and reporting. Lardner's focus was on reform efforts and congressional oversight of intelligence activities, beginning with his coverage of investigations by the “Church Committee,” the United States Senate Select Committee to Study Government Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities led by Senator Frank Church. Other intelligence-related subjects in the collection include spy cases, terrorism, the National Security Agency, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which cover, in particular, the COINTELPRO domestic intelligence program, wiretapping, electronic surveillance, use of lie detectors, and reform efforts.
Lardner's political investigations often concern corruption, wrongdoing, and conflicts of interest. His records of the Watergate Affair involve the trials, campaign funding scandals, especially the Milk Fund investigation, impeachment issues, and government and media access to Richard M. Nixon's recordings of conversations in the Oval Office. During the administration of Jimmy Carter, Lardner investigated William A. “Billy” Carter and Hamilton Jordan and reported on the “Floodgate” scandal centering on representative Daniel J. Flood of Pennsylvania and allegations of influence peddling, bribes, and Mafia connections. Abscam and Brilab files cover federal law enforcement “sting” operations.
During the Ronald Reagan administration, Lardner's files concern a number of investigations, usually led by special prosecutors. Extensive files are available for the investigations of Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan. Material concerning the Wedtech investigation relates to improper influence to gain military contracts and is filed under the company name, Wedtech, with related material filed under Franklyn C. “Lyn” Nofzinger, Edwin Meese, and E. Robert Wallach. Files on Oliver North and the Iran-Contra Affair concern the sale of arms to Iran in exchange for hostages and the diversion of money from that sale to the Contras in Nicaragua. Iran-Contra investigations continued into the George Bush administration.
Political assassinations are a prominent feature of Lardner's files, especially the assassination of John F. Kennedy. The Kennedy file includes material on Jim Garrison's prosecution in 1967 of various figures in New Orleans. Lardner later obtained documents from the Central Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and other government agencies through the Freedom of Information Act and reported on developments in many conspiracy theories. He also covered the investigation of Kennedy's assassination by the United States House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations and, to a lesser extent, the committee's investigation of the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr.
Political election campaigns are a minor subject in the collection. Presidential campaign files include coverage for some of the primaries in 1972 and 1976. Files on campaign spending concern the 1984 presidential race. Lardner's files include profiles he wrote of presidential candidates Frank Church, Phil Gramm, Gary Hart, Dan Quayle, Edward Moore Kennedy, Richard Lugar, and George C. Wallace.
Lardner wrote a series of articles on the Freedom of Information Act and followed the subject for some time, developing related stories concerning presidential papers administered by the National Archives and Records Administration. Other significant files include those for Ruby Ridge and Oklahoma City that concern confrontations of private citizens with federal law enforcement agencies. Ruby Ridge files cover a federal siege and shoot-out at the Randy Weaver home near Ruby Ridge, Idaho. The Oklahoma City files concern the bombing of a federal building in the city, with related material filed under militias. Files on the Mafia are mostly related to alleged political ties and corruption of unions.
Material in the Miscellany series on the Washington-Baltimore Newspaper Guild and Lardner's employment by the Washington Post Company document aspects of the working life of journalists.
Part II
Part II of the Lardner papers span the years 1956-2005, with the majority concentrated in the period between 1990 and 2001. In part, these papers supplement files in Part I and pertain to some of Lardner’s earlier assignments in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s as a reporter covering national news for the Washington Post. The majority of Part II reflects later portions of Lardner’s career at the Washington Post not represented in Part I and documents his assignments from the 1990s and early 2000s. The arrangement of the papers in Part II mirror that of Part I and are organized into the following series: Subject File and Miscellany.
Similar to the Subject File in Part II reflects the manner in which Lardner acquired, received, and pursued information and then developed his research into news stories. The series includes Lardner's articles, correspondence, interviews, notes, and the research material he collected as documentary evidence. Research material includes newspaper clippings, reports, legal documents and trial records, government documents, some of which were obtained through Freedom of Information Act requests, congressional hearing records, photographs, and printed matter. Lardner's subject terms and headings have been largely retained and represent the way he thought about and categorized his research. The organization of these papers reflect the high degree of interconnectedness often apparent in current events and news stories, with people, locations, and subjects appearing in various places across the collection.
Many of the earlier files in Part II complement those in Part I and provide continuation of Lardner’s many investigations into intelligence agencies and policies, political corruption, and political assassinations. Prominent investigations continued in Part II include the Iran-Contra Affair, Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan, improper influence to gain military contracts by Wedtech, the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, among other topics. Political election campaigns in 1968, 1970, 1972, 1976, and 1984 also complement Part I, especially the campaigns of George C. Wallace.
The majority of the Subject File reflects the stories Lardner followed in the later portion of his career at the Washington Post in the 1990s and early 2000s. These stories focus in large part on political figures and controversies and extensively chronicle the Bill Clinton and George W. Bush administrations. Lardner’s investigations into the Clinton administration are varied and include allegations of Chinese influence and illegal fund raising tactics in the 1996 presidential election and improper access to personnel security-clearance documents in a controversy referred to as “Filegate.” Many of the records pertaining to George W. Bush reflect research into his life and activities before being elected president in 2000. A significant portion of files chronicle Lardner’s research into the assassination of John F. Kennedy for a thirtieth anniversary special television documentary titled Who Killed JFK: The Final Chapter?
Documents related to domestic violence, stalking laws, and the murder of Lardner’s daughter, Kristin, in 1992 are represented to a lesser extent, but mark an important aspect of Part II of these papers. Notes, speech transcripts, and correspondence with readers document Lardner’s work to expose the shortcomings of the criminal justice system to protect victims of stalking and domestic violence and to advocate for passage of the Violence Against Women Act. Research files include interview notes, statistics, and printed matter.
The Miscellany series chronicles Lardner’s life apart from his investigative work and includes correspondence with his wife, Rosemary, and children, correspondence related to his involvement with the Fund for Investigative Journalism, and some writing projects. General correspondence with colleagues from the Washington Post and reader responses to some of Lardner's articles are contained in this series, as is Washington Post material that is administrative in nature, such as expense reports and contact lists.
Writings, notes, interviews, correspondence, and research material including newspaper clippings, printed matter, reports, photographs, legal documents, financial records, congressional hearing records, and other government documents.
Correspondence, newsletters, directories, financial records, and notes.
List of campaign receipts and expenditures.
Research material
Writings, drafts, notes, interviews, correspondence, and research material including newspaper clippings, printed matter, reports, photographs, legal documents, financial records, congressional hearing records, and other government documents.
Correspondence, photographs, drawings, newsletters, directories, financial records, and notes.
The papers of Nicholas Longworth (1869-1931) span the period 1782-1931. Most of Longworth’s papers were destroyed during the closing of his home, Rookwood, in Cincinnati following his death. What remains consists of miscellaneous correspondence, newspaper clippings relating to political campaigns, scrapbooks from his student years at Harvard College, souvenir memorial books, and speeches.
A series of letters from various individuals written in 1907 to President Theodore Roosevelt concerns nomination of an African American to be surveyor of customs of the port of Cincinnati. Letters written by Longworth’s grandfather, Nicholas Longworth (1782-1863), are dated 1823, 1824, and 1860.
Letters sent and received and letters to Theodore Roosevelt from others.
Holograph and typed speeches and a copy of Silas Jackson’s Wrongs by Longworth (1869-1931).
Biographical papers, campaign material, elementary school notebook, college scrapbooks, memorial steamship log, and a volume of letters of speakers of the United States House of Representatives.
Memorial steamship log and volume of letters of speakers of the United States House of Representatives.
The papers of Mabel T. Boardman span the years 1853-1945, with the bulk of the material dated 1894-1929. The collection consists of correspondence, diaries, genealogical material, letterbooks, miscellaneous drafts, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material relating to Boardman’s personal life, her work with the American National Red Cross, as a commissioner for the District of Columbia, and in relation to the presidential administrations from William McKinley to Franklin D. Roosevelt. The collection is arranged in three series: Diaries, Correspondence, and Miscellany. Correspondents include William Howard Taft.
Diaries.
Family and general correspondence and letterbooks.
Commonplace book, drafts, genealogical material, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and a school notebook.
The Joshua Coit Correspondence span the years 1792-1798 and consist of letters from Coit to his wife, Nancy, his oldest son, Robert, and to Charles Bulkeley. Almost all of the letters were written during the period of Coit's service in the United States House of Representatives, 1793-1798, as a Federalist representative from Connecticut. The letters are most numerous for the years 1794 and 1798. Many of the letters are accompanied by typed transcripts, and two exist in transcript only.
All but two of the letters are to Coit's wife and son. Letters to his wife describe his feelings on family, religion, and politics and the burdens caused by his absence. Included in his correspondence from 1794 are details of a dinner with President George Washington and levees for Martha Washington and Coit's views on the prospect of war with Great Britain. In 1798 he remarked on an altercation between fellow representatives Roger Griswold and Matthew Lyon. Following the XYZ Affair and as a result of his efforts to prevent war with France, Coit wrote in June 1798 that he felt he would not be reelected to Congress. Coit died of yellow fever a few months later. His letters to his son include fatherly instruction and advice and focus on the importance of good behavior and helping with household chores, schooling, and proper letter writing.
Transcripts of the records of the Archivo Nacional de Cuba span the years 1770-1911, with the bulk of the material dating from 1770 to 1805. The records are in Spanish and English and concern the Spanish colonial administration of Louisiana and Florida. With the exception of a handwritten “Index of correspondence,” the items are blueprint copies made sometime before 1913 of typewritten transcripts of documents in the Cuban archive. The transcripts may have resulted from the work of the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Its Department of Historical Research was dedicated to finding documentary sources for the study of American history in foreign archives and publishing a series of guides. The Guide to the Materials for American History in Cuban Archives by Luis Marino Perez was published in 1907. Records in the present collection are described in the Perez book as document numbers 347, 375, and appendix A. A copy of this guide is in the Manuscript Division Reading Room.
The Cédulas y órdenes is a collection of Spanish government orders and documents concerning trade and the administration of Louisiana and Florida. The index of correspondence of the Capitanes-Generales of Cuba was copied in 1911 before the records were sent from Cuba to Spain. It indexes legajos 1-958, “correspondientes al Ramo de Guerra,” and includes a brief description for each entry.
The file “Letters of Bernardo de Gálvez,” written by the Spanish governor of Louisiana, consists of transcripts of his copybooks of correspondence to the secretary of the Indies, José de Gálvez, and to the capitanes-generales at Havana, the Marqués de la Torre and Diego Josef Navarro. Some letters are abstracted while others appear to be full transcripts. Many of the letters relate to military matters, including the assistance given by the Spaniards to the American colonists in revolt, the plans of the Americans to capture Pensacola (1777), and the anticipated attack on New Orleans by the British (1778).
William Panton of Pensacola, founder of the firm of Panton, Leslie and Company, was a Scottish trader who held the exclusive charter from Spain for trade with Indians in West Florida. His file contains transcripts of various items documenting the history of the concession, relations with the Indians, and correspondence, primarily in English, of Panton and his agents. Panton and other traders traveled among the Indian tribes of West Florida, and their letters include personal observations and details related to their travels.
The papers of William A. Benney (1885-1965) span the years 1909-1966, with the bulk of the material dating from 1920 to 1931, and consist of notes, correspondence, drawings, lists, payroll records, newspaper clippings, personal papers, printed matter, and photographs documenting his employment by Thomas A. Edison as a research superintendent. Scrapbooks, containing approximately four hundred notes written between Benney, Thomas A. Edison, Charles A. Edison, as well as others, document day-to-day laboratory activities especially during the search for a natural rubber substitute carried out at Edison’s winter home in Fort Myers, Florida. Included also in the scrapbooks are correspondence and drawings of machinery and tools. The payroll records, signed by Benney, document work conducted by carpenters and laborers on the Edison property in Fort Myers. There are also equipment lists. Newspaper clippings largely pertain to Thomas A. Edison, but also cover Benney’s personal life. Other items of a personal nature include correspondence, invitations, Benney’s death certificate, and a rental agreement for a store in Morris Township, New Jersey. The printed matter consists mostly of memorabilia pertaining to Thomas A. Edison. Photographs include portraits inscribed to Benney by Thomas A. Edison and Charles A. Edison. The three photograph albums document the Edison estate and laboratory in Fort Myers and the Benney family.
The papers of Samuel Wylie Crawford (1827-1892), span the years 1860-1892. The papers consists of diaries, letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, registers and returns of troops and artillery, sketches, photographs, and other items relating chiefly to events while Crawford was an assistant surgeon at Fort Sumter.
The papers contain correspondence from Governor Francis W. Pickens of South Carolina, including letters to Jefferson Davis; copies of correspondence between Robert Anderson and G.T. Beauregard before the bombardment of Fort Sumter; and a statement by David D. Porter concerning the frigate Powhatan and the provisioning of Fort Sumter. Correspondents include Ellison Capers, Maxcy Gregg, Robert E. Lee, A. G. Magrath, C. G. Memminger, John C. Pemberton, and Roswell Sabine Ripley.
The papers of the Denby family span the years 1850-1911 and consist primarily of correspondence and related matter exchanged among family members. The bulk of the letters are between Charles Denby (1830-1904), a lawyer and minister to China, his wife Martha Fitch Denby (“Mattie”), and their children Graham, Charles, Harriet (“Hattie” and “Ethel”), Wythe, Edwin (“Ned”), and Thomas Garvin (“Garvin”). Charles Denby (1861-1938) was also a diplomat in China, and Edwin Denby served as a member of the United States Congress and as secretary of the navy. There are also letters from Martha’s mother, Harriet Satterlee Fitch (“Moo”) and her father Graham Newell Fitch, a doctor who served as United States senator from Indiana.
The major portion of the correspondence from the 1850s is between Charles Denby and Martha Fitch during their two-year engagement. The letters document their long-distance courtship. Charles was a young lawyer in Evansville, Indiana, struggling to make enough money to marry Martha. She was from Logansport, Indiana, and spent part of the time in Washington, D.C., while her father served in Congress.
During the Civil War Charles Denby wrote letters from Kentucky, Tennessee, and Alabama while serving as lieutenant colonel in the Forty-Second Indiana Volunteers. Those from October 1862 describe the battle of Perryville, Kentucky, in which Denby was slightly injured and his horse killed. In late 1862, Denby was appointed colonel of the Eightieth Indiana Volunteers headquartered in Columbia, Kentucky. In addition to describing camp life and home life during this period, correspondence between Charles and Martha Denby indicates that she traveled to visit him while he was in camp in Huntsville, Alabama, as well as at Columbia. An undated account relates to Martha’s stay in the deserted mansion of Clement C. Clay in Huntsville, Alabama.
Correspondence from the mid 1860s through the 1870s records births, deaths, illnesses, and other activities of the growing Denby family, local and national events, and Charles Denby’s work as a lawyer. There are numerous letters from the Denbys’ son Charles (1861-1938) describing his life at the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) and from their daughter Harriet, who attended Hellmuth Ladies’ College in London, Ontario, Canada.
The Denby family resided in China from 1885 until 1905, starting when the elder Charles Denby was appointed minister to China. He held this post for thirteen years during which time some of the children returned to the United States. Martha Denby made the long trip between the United States and China several times to tend to family members. Son Charles (1861-1938) spent the longest time in China, working in diplomatic service and in business. Edwin Denby served in the Chinese Maritime Customs Service for seven years and wrote letters from Macao, where he was stationed for part of this period. Letters from China describe the official, social, and domestic lives of the diplomatic community in Peking. The Sino-Japanese War and the Boxer Rebellion are discussed in the correspondence. Lengthy letters between family members separated by great distances document efforts to the keep each other informed of events in their lives and indicate the emotional and financial problems caused by the slowness and unreliability of the mail.
The Spanish-American War is also treated in the correspondence. Son Edwin and son-in-law Gilbert Wilkes served aboard the Yosemite (auxiliary cruiser) in 1898. Charles Denby, Sr., spent time in Washington, D. C., as a member of a commission appointed by the president to investigate the conduct of the War Department during the war with Spain. In 1899 he traveled to the Philippines as a member of the United States Philippine Commission. Martha Denby and son Thomas Garvin accompanied him on that trip. A letter from Martha Denby contains a journal describing their activities and the people she met.
Correspondence beginning in the 1890s documents the adult lives of the Denby children. Wythe Denby became a mining engineer in Utah, Arizona, and Alaska. In letters to his mother in 1904 and 1905, Edwin Denby gave accounts of his election to Congress and his early days in Washington. Charles Denby (1861-1938) wrote in 1905 and 1906 describing his work in the State Department. The last letters were written by Edwin Denby to his sister during his honeymoon trip in Europe. The bulk of the correspondence ends with the death of the parents, and subsequent periods of the careers of Edwin Denby and the younger Charles Denby are not documented.
The records of the Frontier Nursing Service, Washington Committee, span the years 1976 to 1994, with the bulk of the material dating from 1981 to 1994. Correspondence, minutes, membership rosters, invitations, and other printed matter document the fund-raising activities of the Washington Committee of the Frontier Nursing Service. Founded in 1925 by Mary Breckinridge as the Kentucky Committee for Mothers and Babies, three years later the organization became the Frontier Nursing Service. The mission of the organization is to provide family-centered care to its patients in and around rural Leslie County, Kentucky, as well as the United States and the world, through the efforts of its graduates from the Frontier School of Midwifery and Family Nursing. The Washington Committee held various fund-raising events, especially the Kentucky Derby Day Party held annually at the home of the honorary national chairman and a cousin of Mary Breckinridge, Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson.
The papers of the Porter family document the careers of naval officers David Porter (1780-1843) and his son, David Dixon Porter (1813-1891). The collection spans the years 1811-1881 and consists primarily of correspondence and letterbooks. The material is organized as the papers of each man and arranged alphabetically thereunder by type of material or name of person.
Letters from David Porter to his friend Samuel Hambleton in 1811-1812 describe his command of the frigate Essex charged with protecting Atlantic coast merchantmen. In a letter dated October 19, 1812, Porter related to Hambleton that “In two or three days I sail on a long, a very long cruize [sic], our destinations and intended movements I am not at liberty to divulge, perhaps a more important cruize was never undertaken by the vessels of any nation and I have the vanity to believe that my plans for the ‘first campaign’ produced it.” Soon thereafter in early 1813, Porter took the Essex around Cape Horn to safeguard American whalers and in so doing commanded the first United States naval vessel to sail into the Pacific Ocean. Letters to his wife Evelina Anderson Porter relate details of his service as commander in chief of the Mexican Navy in 1826-1829 and of domestic affairs while living in Port Mahón on the Mediterranean island of Minorca in1830. Other recipients of letters in the file include James P. McCorkle and George W. Walker. Also included is a draft of Porter’s resignation as commander in chief of the Mexican Navy and his will dictated in San Stefano, Turkey.
Official letterbooks of David Dixon Porter from the periods 1867-1869 and 1878-1881 comprise the bulk of the collection and contain copies of letters to three secretaries of the navy, Richard W. Thompson, Nathan Goff, and William H. Hunt. A letter from Porter while in New Orleans in 1862 to his wife George Ann Porter recounted the bitterness of their southern relatives under Union occupation of that city. Other items include printed naval general orders and circulars.
The papers of Edmund Clarence Stedman (1833-1908), a poet, editor, and drama critic, span the years 1871-1923, with the bulk of the material dated between 1881 and 1901. They include correspondence, particularly with Edward Howard House, poetry written by Stedman and other poets, and miscellaneous items, including Stedman’s bookplate. The correspondence pertains to Stedman’s family and personal matters, as well as poetry. There is also limited correspondence with his wife, Laura Hyde Woolworth, and granddaughter, Laura Stedman, dated after Stedman’s death.
The papers of William Bebb (1802-1873) span the years 1705-1849, with the bulk of the material dating from 1812 to 1849. The papers consist of pages from a dismantled autograph album containing approximately 140 letters and clipped signatures. Portions of an appraisal containing a partial description of the album is available in the Manuscript Reading Room. The album appears to have been started for Bebb by his father, Edward Bebb, and Samuel Roberts (1800-1885), Welsh political reformer and founder of a Welsh settlement in Tennessee. The first part of the collection contains letters and signatures of British politicians, military figures, authors, and missionaries in India, China, and Africa. Included are letters from John Bright (1811-1889), Thomas Babington Macaulay, Francis Palgrave, Robert Peel (1788-1850), and Henry Richard (1812-1898).
The second part of the collection consists largely of letters from prominent Americans addressed to or collected by William Bebb. Included among the collected items is a letter from Thomas Jefferson in 1807 concerning the use of volunteer forces against Native American attacks west of the Mississippi, a letter from Andrew Jackson concerning a Creek uprising on the southern frontier in 1813, and a letter from William Henry Harrison regarding his victory against combined British and Native American forces on the banks of the Thames River in southeastern Ontario in 1813. Bebb also acquired letters written by John Quincy Adams, John C. Calhoun, Alexander J. Dallas, Charles Hammond (1779-1840), William Hull (1753-1825), James Winchester (1752-1826), and Thomas Worthington (1773-1827), among others. Bebb's own correspondence includes letters from John Brough, Thomas Corwin, Thomas Ewing (1789-1871), Seabury Ford, Horace Greeley, John McLean, Samuel Finley Vinton, James Whitcomb, and John C. Wright (1783-1861). Whig and Ohio politics are discussed in many of these letters.
The papers of Thomas Tingey Craven (1873-1950), naval officer, span the years 1842-1969, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1917-1945. Craven is noted as the director of naval aviation who ordered the conversion of the coal-carrying ship Jupiter into the Langley, the United States Navy's first aircraft carrier. The collection is organized into family papers, general correspondence, subject files, and writings. The family papers include biographical and genealogical material, clippings, and correspondence. Of special interest are a letter of 1842 written by Craven's grandfather and namesake Thomas T. Craven, and a letter from Craven to his wife Antoinette relating his experiences and impressions during the 1908 visit of the battleship South Carolina to Japan.
Well represented in the Subject File are documents related to Craven's World War I convoy duty in Atlantic and Mediterranean waters while captain of the gunboat Sacramento from 1917 to 1918, his command of the United States Naval Aviation Forces in Europe in 1918, and his command of a gunboat flotilla on the Yangtze River in China from 1929 to 1931. Documents relating to Craven's World War I service include convoy sailing orders, reports about naval accidents and incidents, and correspondence and memoranda relating to United States Naval Aviation Forces in Europe. Correspondents from the latter period include Hutchinson I. Cone and Ralph Earle. As commander of the Yangtze Patrol (1929-1931), Craven corresponded with diplomats, missionaries, military colleagues, and Chinese officials. Correspondents from this period include Morris Llewellyn Cooke, H. G. C. Hallock, Lieu Ven Tae (or Liu Wen-tau), M. Yonai, Marshal Liu Hsiang, and Allen N. Cameron. Other topics include Craven's service as defense counsel in the court-martial of Edward H. Watson, commander of a destroyer squadron that shipwrecked at Point Pedernales (or Point Honda) on the California coast in 1923, resulting in the loss of twenty-three men and seven ships; and Craven's efforts in behalf of a protégé, Husband E. Kimmel, who was under investigation after the 1942 Japanese attack on his Pacific Fleet command at Pearl Harbor.
The General Correspondence includes letters discussing Craven's service as chief coordinator of the Federal Coordinating Service during the Herbert Hoover administration, curriculum reform at the United States Naval Academy, the New York State Maritime Academy, the Merchant Marine, Alaska fisheries, aircraft carriers, radio communications policy, corrupt practices in naval shipyards, and other topics. Correspondents not already cited include Richard E. Byrd, Josephus Daniels, Stanford C. Hooper, Herbert Hoover, Dudley W. Knox, Frank Knox, David Sarnoff, and William S. Sims.
The papers of Richard Dale (1756-1826) span the years 1778 to 1918 with the bulk of the material dating from the 1770s to the 1820s. The papers consist of correspondence, commissions, a mathematics notebook kept while Dale was in Mill Prison, Plymouth, England, a journal/log of a voyage aboard a merchant ship to Canton, China, and New Guinea, 1787-1789 (available on microfilm), and a license and an appointment paper of two of Dale's descendants.
Dale was born in 1756 near Norfolk, Virginia. He served with the British Navy, 1776-1777, but joined the colonial cause in 1777. He served as John Paul Jones's first lieutenant on the BonHomme Richard in the battle with HMS Serapis. In 1801, Dale was sent to the Mediterranean to blockade Tripoli with a five-ship fleet at the outbreak of the Tripolitan War. He died in Philadelphia in 1826. One of the letterbooks contains copies of Dale's outgoing letters while in command of the United States frigate President in Tripoli, 1801-1802. Some of his correspondence during the Tripolitan War are in the other letterbook (letters numbered 19, 24, 25, 33, 40, 42). This letterbook includes letters written to Dale, many letters to Rear Admiral George Campbell Read (1787-1862), Dale's son-in-law, and letters to several others. The letters were placed in alphabetical order by name of correspondent, placed in a bound volume with a number assigned to each letter. The letters are from various naval officers and secretaries of the navy, including William Bainbridge, John Paul Jones, and Secretaries of the Navy John P. Kennedy, Robert Smith, and Benjamin Stoddert. Commissions and appointment papers are signed by John Adams, Millard Fillmore, John Hancock, George Washington, and Daniel Webster.
The Field-Osgood Family Papers span the years 1702-1938, with the bulk of the material dating from about 1780 to 1930. The papers pertain to three ancestral families of the donor and are arranged in three sections: the Bradhurst family, the Field family, and the Osgood family, with the Field and Osgood papers forming the bulk of the collection. Many of the items were removed from deteriorating scrapbooks. With the exception of occasional items of a general nature concerning the family, the material is arranged alphabetically by individual family member. The papers include correspondence, financial material, legal documents, genealogical material, speeches and writings, printed matter, photographs, lithographs, and engravings.
Because so many individuals are represented in this collection, the topics touched upon are disparate and numerous. Of major importance are the papers of Samuel Osgood (1748-1813), member of the Continental Congress, one of the three members of the United States Board of Treasury (1785-1789), first postmaster general, and naval officer of the port of New York. A small amount of correspondence, writings, and Board of Treasury and port of New York documents are in the collection. Most of the Samuel Osgood material, however, relates to household financial matters. Additional household financial matter is found under his wife's name, Maria Bowne Franklin Osgood, including items concerning her financial obligations to Chloe Field, an African American woman. Also in the collection are four sermons of David Osgood (1747-1822), three printed and one holograph. One printed sermon of Joseph Lathrop (1731-1820) can be found in the folder for Thaddeus Osgood.
Samuel Osgood's daughter, Susan Kittridge Osgood Field, maintained a lively correspondence with her sisters, Martha Brandon Osgood, married and living near Troy, New York, and Juliana Osgood, married and living in or near Andover, Massachusetts. She also corresponded with Mary (a cousin?) living in Charleston, South Carolina. Nearly all of the letters date from 1814 to 1821, the year she married Moses Field. The letters from her sisters are full of descriptions and details of the everyday life of these young women. Susan Osgood Field's correspondence is filed with the Field family material.
Three items in the Field family papers merit notice: two eighteenth century manumission documents from New York state and a letter of 1845 from Robert Browning to Hickson Woolman Field. Also in the Field family papers are a collection of materials from the United States Signal Corps on aerial photography dating from 1917 to 1918 and a group of intelligence reports (circa 1918-1919) from the Military Intelligence Division of the War Department. Both groups of papers relate to William B. Osgood Field.
The papers of the George Montfort Gilchrist family span the years 1854-1921 and consist of correspondence, school records, literary and commencement programs, poetry, and genealogical records. Much of the correspondence is between Gilchrist, a captain in the Third Indiana Cavalry, and his wife, Mollie Gilpin Gilchrist. Gilchrist's wartime letters describe routine camp life, troop movements, and skirmishes with Confederate forces in Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. Other Civil War letters are between Mollie and Samuel J. V. B. Gilpin of the First Indiana Cavalry and Ebenezer N. Gilpin of the Third Iowa Cavalry. In addition, there is considerable correspondence with other members of the Gilchrist and Gilpin families. The school records, literary programs, and commencement programs pertain to Hanover College, Hanover, Indiana. The genealogical records are of the Gilpin family of Illinois, Iowa, and Indiana.
The papers of Samuel Holten (1738-1816) span the years 1630-1843, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1744-1843. The collection consists of correspondence, account books, and bills and receipts. The correspondence relates chiefly to Holten's service in the Massachusetts Provincial General Court, Massachusetts Governor's Council, Continental Congress, and United States House of Representatives. Other papers relate to his medical practice and to his life and work in Danvers, Massachusetts. Correspondents include Samuel Adams, James Bowdoin, William Cushing, Nathan Dane, Elbridge Gerry, William Gordon, Nathaniel Gorham, John Hancock, Israel Hutchinson, John Lowell, George Partridge, James Sullivan, and Thomas Wallcut.
The addition to the papers of Samuel Holten spans the years 1783-1785 and consists of draft copies of Holten's correspondence, including letters to William Cushing, Elbridge Gerry, and Benjamin Wadsworth, and a letter from Thomas Wallcut to Holten.
The papers of Robert Patterson Hughes (1839-1909) span the years 1876-1994, with the bulk of the material dating from 1898 to 1909. The collection consists of diaries, correspondence, photographs, writings, a printed memorial, and biographical material documenting aspects of Hughes's military career from his enlistment as a private in the 12th Pennsylvania Infantry in 1861 to his retirement as major general in 1903.
The bulk of the papers pertains to Hughes's service in the Philippines between 1898 and 1901. A series of six diaries kept between July 1898 and December 1899 chronicles Hughes's activities as inspector general of the Expeditionary Force from May 17 to August 1898, inspector general and provost marshal general of Manila from August 1898 to May 1899, and as commander of the Department of the Visayas after May 1899. A typed transcript is available for the first two volumes covering the period July to October 1898.
The papers also include a detailed account, accompanied by a hand-drawn map, of the Battle of Little Bighorn, written by Hughes to his wife on 30 June 1876. Hughes, then aide-de-camp to Alfred Howe Terry, arrived at the site of the battle on June 27th. His correspondence includes an 1893 letter from George D. Ruggles recalling the expedition's departure from St. Paul, Minnesota, to Fort Abraham Lincoln, North Dakota.
The papers of Martin Oviatt span the years 1863-1995 and consist of a three-volume diary, 1863-1865, kept by Oviatt during his Civil War service with the Sixth Ohio Cavalry Regiment. Typewritten transcripts of the volumes for 1864-1865 prepared by a descendant in 1995 are also included.
The papers of Harry W. Frantz (1891-1982) span the years 1919-1965, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1929-1937. The collection is focused entirely on aviation, a field Frantz covered as a correspondent for United Press International, and documents pioneering long distance and endurance flights and the early history of the Pan American Airways Corporation and other commercial passenger and freight air carriers.
The Frantz Papers comprise three series, Scrapbooks, Printed Matter, and Oversize. The Scrapbooks are organized in a numerical system of Frantz's devising. Loose leaf scrapbooks have been dismantled and the contents foldered in the original page order. Hard bound scrapbooks are in Oversize. The monographs, pamphlets, reports, serials, publicity material, and other print and near print material that comprise the Printed Matter are arranged chronologically under United States, other countries, and Pan American Airways Corporation headings.
Volumes 19-21 of the Scrapbooks consist of Pan American Airways publicity director William Van Dusen's "Dear Señor" letters, an informal newsletter, 1937-1940, disseminating inside information on such topics as routes, personnel, technological progress, and the latest developments in the Clipper and Stratoliner programs. Other correspondents include Arthur E. Curtis, Roy Wilson Howard, Manuel DeJ. Manduley, and B.V. McCandlish.
Scrapbooks containing correspondence, book jackets, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, pamphlets, photographs, and miscellaneous printed matter.
Monographs, pamphlets, reports, schedules, magazines, and other material.
Scrapbooks
The papers of the Simons family, an African-American family centered in South Carolina and Washington, D.C., span the years 1887-1982, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1918-1945. Roughly half the collection consists of the papers of William H. Simons. His career included service as international secretary with the Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA) International Committee in East Africa, India, and Burma and as a Baptist missionary teacher serving in Nigeria. The rest of the papers constitute a series titled Other Family Members and consist mainly of correspondence by members of the related Simons, Garrett, and Nicholson families.
William H. Simons's service with the Young Men's Christian Association in German East Africa (Tanganyika) and British East Africa (Kenya) during World War I and his continued service with the YMCA after the war in India and Burma are documented in diaries, notes, and correspondence. In a 1918 diary, Simons describes his wartime voyage to East Africa with fellow YMCA officials, a Red Cross unit, missionaries, soldiers, refugees, and miners. He had the opportunity to experience and observe racial and social conditions in South Africa when the ship docked for a month at Durban. Friendships and correspondence with A. Neely, director of the Seaman's Institute and Rest (Durban), and Benjamin Skeets, American merchant seaman, radio operator, and passionate atheist, resulted from this South African sojourn.
According to the 1918 diary, when Simons reached Dar es Salaam, German East Africa, he was assigned to Railroad Institute schools near Dar es Salaam and Nairobi, British East Africa (Kenya). The Railroad Institute, a wartime training organization financed by the African Railroad and administered by the YMCA, trained Africans in railroading skills, such as telegraphy, to further the British campaign against the Germans in East Africa. One of the students with whom Simons carried on a correspondence over many years was Seth Nakiafu, who became a prominent educator in his native Uganda.
Simons's papers include a photocopy of a 1919 diary, loose diary pages covering January 1920, and a bound journal for 1922, periods when he was working as a YMCA international secretary at British and Indian army facilities in India and Burma. These diaries emphasize his travels and his impressions of Hindu and Buddhist religious practices, and they document his YMCA work. Correspondents from this period and from his stint as headmaster of the American Baptist Mission School in Myingyam, Burma, 1922-1924, include Mary Hall Cowdrey, Ruth Cowdrey, W. B. Hilton, H. E. Hinton, George R. Hovey, B. S. Mani, and Julia Rattanchand.
The bulk of the William H. Simons series consists of correspondence with colleagues, family members, and friends from his travels and his student days at Benedict College in Columbia, South Carolina, Virginia Union College in Richmond, Virginia, and Gordon College in Wenham, Massachusetts. Simons and the Nigerian Baptist clergyman Nathaniel D. Oyerinde were students together at Virginia Union College before World War I and colleagues during the 1930s at the Baptist College and Seminary, Ogbomosho, Nigeria, where Simons was a teacher and librarian and Oyerinde served as principal. Simons also conducted a lengthy correspondence with Kate E. Gale, a member of the Virginia Union faculty.
Gordon College classmates with whom Simons corresponded include Simeon Bankole-Wright and Esther R. Beer. Correspondence generated during his years at the Baptist College and Seminary at Ogbomosho, Nigeria, include letters from student A. B. Batubo and from Elizabeth R. Frost, a Baptist missionary in the Belgian Congo.
Most of Simon's letters in these papers were written to family members, including his parents, Isom W. and Minnie Simons, brother Alfred E. Simons, sister Ethel Simons Meeds, and his niece Anna Josephine Simons Wade.
Simons's correspondence with Herbert W. Bryant, A. F. Ford, L. R. Lines, and R. Baille Young and other material specifically related to his service with the YMCA is in the Young Men's Christian Association file. A file on the Young Women's Christian Association is mostly printed matter on YWCA activities in India compiled by Ruth Cowdrey.
The Simons and Garrett families of Columbia, South Carolina, were united in the 1917 marriage of Alfred E. Simons, younger brother of William H. Simons, and Mattie Phyllis Garrett, daughter of educator and journalist Caspar G. Garrett. One of the eight children resulting from this marriage was Ruth Simons Nicholson, a historian and archivist at the Library of Congress. Most of the Other Family Members series consists of the family correspondence among members of the Simons and Garrett families.
Much of the family correspondence in the Other Family Members series focuses on the military service of sons of Alfred and Minnie Simons during and immediately after World War II. Correspondents include Alfred E. Simons, Jr., who organized the swing/jazz band of the 357th Engineers Regiment and led it overseas in North Africa and Italy. He later became a prominent educational psychologist. William H. Simons (born 1924), wrote many letters home during his army service in the northern European theater. A file in the Miscellany of the Other Family Members series relates to his activities as an organizer and president of the Washington, D.C., Teachers Union.
Also of interest are letters of photographer Joseph O. Curtis (not a family member), who served as a junior officer in a quartermaster unit in England, France, and Belgium during World War II. The correspondence of Alfred E. Simons, Jr., William H. Simons, Joseph O. Curtis, and others documents the response of African-American soldiers to a segregated army.
Naomi Mills Garrett maintained a voluminous correspondence with her mother, Anna Mariah Garrett, wife of journalist Caspar G. Garrett; her sister, Mattie Garrett Simons; and her nieces, Ruth Simons Nicholson and Anna Josephine Simons Wade. She wrote about her experiences as a teacher in rural South Carolina during a period spanning World War I through the 1930s, in Haiti during World War II, and as a professor of romance languages at West Virginia State College, Institute, West Virginia, from the 1940s through the 1960s.
Though Alfred and Mattie Simons moved to Washington, D.C., shortly after their marriage in 1917, they maintained ties with their native state through correspondence and participation in the South Carolina Club. Files comprising the correspondence and minutes of the club can be found in the Miscellany of the Other Family Members series.
Diaries, correspondence, subject files, programs, clippings, printed matter, notes, receipts, passports, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, subject files, financial records, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
The papers of George Horace Gallup (1901-1984) span the years 1936-1979, with the bulk of the material dating from 1960 to 1979. The collection consists of speeches by Gallup, drafts of his books, and Gallup Poll press releases from 1979. Final copies of the speeches are contained in bound volumes accompanied by loose drafts and notes. The book file consists of drafts of three unpublished works, on American foreign policy, the Vietnam War, and public opinion surveys, and one published work.
The correspondence and speeches of Schuyler Colfax (1823-1885) span the years 1837-1882. The collection documents Colfax’s ownership and editorship of the St. Joseph Valley Register, a Whig newspaper in South Bend, Indiana; his involvement in Whig and Republican party politics; and his tenure as United States representative from Indiana and vice president under Ulysses S. Grant (1822-1885).
The correspondence file dates from 1837 to 1882 and includes letters to and from Colfax. A large part of the correspondence consists of letters written by Colfax to Alfred Wheeler who assumed editorship of the St. Joseph Valley Register when Colfax was elected to Congress in 1855. Colfax’s letters discuss the running of his newspaper, events in Washington, D.C., and national and state politics. Other correspondents include Henry B. Anthony, Jay Cooke (1821-1905), Roscoe Conkling (1829-1888), and Henry L. Dawes. The correspondence is arranged chronologically.
The speech file contains drafts of speeches and lectures given by Colfax, largely from 1873 to 1882, when he had retired from politics and was touring the country giving public lectures. The speeches and lectures are arranged alphabetically by title or topic. Several folders contain compilations of partial drafts, reflecting Colfax’s practice of reusing portions of earlier speeches. A facsimile letter from Colfax to John Sherman (1823-1900) concerning Sherman’s brother William T. Sherman was added as an addition to the collection in 1982.
The papers of John L. McCrea (1891-1990), Franklin D. Roosevelt's naval aide during the early part of World War II, span the years 1898-1984, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1914-1966. The collection is organized into general correspondence, speeches and writings, and subject files. The general correspondence is arranged chronologically and spans most of McCrea's naval career (1914-1953), a second career as an insurance executive (1953-1966), and his postretirement through 1984. McCrea served from 1915 to 1919 aboard the battleship New York, flagship of Adm. Hugh Rodman's Division Nine, a force of United States warships cooperating with the British Grand Fleet in European waters during World War I. Correspondence from this period relates to relations between the United States and the British navies and to the surrender of the German High Seas Fleet in 1918. McCrea also served under Rodman as an aide (1919-1921) during the admiral's command of the United States fleet in the Pacific. McCrea and Rodman maintained a correspondence well into the 1930s. From 1929 to 1931, McCrea was aide and flag secretary to E. H. Campbell and Arthur St. Clair Smith, successive commanders of a special service squadron operating in Central American waters. Correspondence from this period is a rich source on military, political, and social conditions in Nicaragua and Panama.
McCrea's service with the Naval Government of Guam (1936-1937), as executive officer of the naval station on the island and as aide for civil administration, generated correspondence with governor B. V. McCandlish and others about social, military, and political conditions on Guam. During the period 1941-1943, McCrea served as aide to chief of naval operations Harold R. Stark, as naval secretary at the first meeting of the Combined Chiefs of Staff, and as naval aide to President Franklin D. Roosevelt. From 13 December 1940 to 31 January 1941, while working for Stark, McCrea traveled to the Philippines to appraise the battle readiness of the United States Asiatic Fleet and the fitness of its commander, Thomas C. Hart. Included in the correspondence for the period 1941-1943 are memoranda from Roosevelt and correspondence with several White House staffers, especially William D. Hassett, personal secretary to Roosevelt, and Harry S. Truman.
Prominent in the general correspondence are many letters from McCrea's duty aboard a variety of naval vessels, including billets as navigator of the cruiser Astoria (1934-1936), executive officer of the fuel oil tanker Ramapo (1922) and the battleship Pennsylvania (1938-1940), and commander of the mine sweeper Bittern (1924-1926) and the battleship Iowa (1943-1944). McCrea maintained correspondence with former shipmates, commissioned and enlisted, over long periods of time. Prominent in this group were Allan E. Smith and Lynne C. Quiggle. Other areas of McCrea's naval career well documented in the general correspondence include his command of Cruiser Division One against Japanese installations in the Aleutian and Kurile islands during 1944-1945 and his postwar service as deputy chief of naval operations, deputy commander of the United States Pacific Fleet, director of staff for the Personnel Policy Board, and commander of the First Naval District. Prominent correspondents not previously cited include Russell S. Berkey, William H. P. Blandy, Richard L. Conolly, Louis E. Denfeld, Robert L. Dennison, W. M. Fechteler, Thomas C. Hart, Walter A. Hicks, Jonas H. Ingram, Chester W. Nimitz, Earle T. Oakes, Herbert Lamont Pugh, and Kemp Tolley.
The subject file contains topical files that dovetail with subjects covered in the general correspondence, such as Nicaragua and Guam. Of interest are files related to McCrea's service as a presidential naval aide, the battleship Iowa, and Anna M. Rosenberg, who was assistant secretary of defense for manpower during the Korean War. Of interest in the speeches and writings file is McCrea's account of his midshipman days, which included a memorable 1914 summer cruise to the Mediterranean aboard the battleship Idaho. This experience afforded McCrea the opportunity to witness the French mobilization for World War I. Also included are a diary covering McCrea's stint as naval aide to Franklin D. Roosevelt, an account of the establishment of the presidential retreat at Camp David, Maryland, and McCrea's history of the Iowa.
The papers of Mira Lloyd Dock (1853-1945) span the years 1814-1951, with the bulk of the material dating from 1899 to 1945. The papers are in English and German and are organized into Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, and Oversize series primarily relating to Dock's involvement in horticulture, forestry, conservation, and forestry education in Pennsylvania and elsewhere in the United States as well as in Germany and England.
The Correspondence series covers Dock's early efforts, her years as the first woman on the State Forestry Reservation Commission of Pennsylvania, and her work through women's organizations such as the General Federation of Women's Clubs and the State Federation of Pennsylvania Women in the areas of conservation, forestry, horticulture, forestry education, and city beautification. Notable correspondents include F. Bascom, Sir Dietrich Brandis, Marion A. Crocker, T. B. Jäger, Warren H. Manning, J. Horace McFarland, Gifford Pinchot, Joseph T. Rothrock, Charles Sprague Sargent, Mary Belle King Sherman, and H. A. Surface.
Also in the Correspondence are letters from family member William Dean Howells as well as letters concerning Dock and Lloyd family genealogy. Early nineteenth-century correspondence written by Dock and Lloyd ancestors is supplemented in the Miscellany series by an 1864 contract with Gilliard Dock for work on the Lorberry Creek Railroad in Pennsylvania.
The Speeches and Writings span Dock's career and cover topics such as forest conservation; forest fires; playgrounds; park development; forestry education; Arbor Day; city beautification of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; gardening; John Bartram; and tree species. Included is a draft and printed version of a report documenting her 1899 trip to Europe, most notably to England and the Black Forest of Germany. Other reports include those written for the State Forestry Reservation Commission of Pennsylvania and various women's clubs.
The Miscellany is comprised mostly of newspaper clippings and printed matter relating to Dock's interest in forestry, conservation, horticulture, and genealogy.
Correspondence with colleagues and family.
Notes, drafts, and printed copies of speeches, writings, papers, and reports.
Blueprint, contract for work, maps, newspaper clippings, photographs, postcards, printed matter, and subject files.
Maps.
The collection of Florence Hamilton (1873-1968) relating to Edwin Markham spans the years 1857-1959, with the bulk of the material dating from 1926 to 1942. The papers are organized in the following series: Correspondence, Poetry, Speeches and Writings, Unpublished Biography, Scrapbooks, Photographs and Prints, Memorabilia, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
The Correspondence consists of letters to and from Edwin Markham, Florence Hamilton, and others. A majority of the letters, however, are written by Markham to Hamilton and concern his lecture tours, stays with Charles R. Walgreen, his health, the poetry of others, and his thanks to Hamilton for her assistance. The correspondence reveals a relationship between the two with some of Markham's letters to Hamilton addressed as "Dear Child" and simply signed as either "A" or "Aprile."
The Poetry series contains poems by Markham and includes his most famous work, "The Man with the Hoe," as well as "Lincoln, the Man of the People," "Ode to Lincoln," "Ballad of the Gallows Bird," and "Our Israfel." His notebooks of poems span the length of his career. Of interest also is the guestbook in which Markham wrote poems when staying at Hamilton's home in Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts, a place he referred to as "The House with the Smiling Face."
The Speeches and Writings file includes articles, speeches, a radio script, and a motion picture script. Many of Markham's works cover social and religious issues as well as poetry. Markham also wrote about individuals including the American realist author and literary critic William Dean Howells.
The Unpublished Biography series consists largely of Hamilton's typescript of " The Man with the Hoe, the Poem, the Poet, and the Problem: The Intellectual Biography of Edwin Markham" that was to have been published in 1936. Included also are biographical sketches of Markham, letters authorizing Hamilton to write his biography, drafts of the work, and a photograph of Markham and Hamilton.
The Scrapbooks series includes clippings, photographs, programs, correspondence, and poems covering the personal lives and writings of Markham and Hamilton. Volumes 3 and 10 pertain mostly to Hamilton and document her poetry, her relationship to Markham, and her life as a poet in New York. Volume 8 contains a copy of Markham's will, while Volume 7 is filled with his obituary notices from 1940. Many of Markham's poems in the scrapbooks have been inscribed to Hamilton.
Other photographs are located in the Photographs and Prints series as well as a print of the painting "The Man with the Hoe" by the French artist Jean-François Millet. The Memorabilia series includes a plaster cast of Markham's hand, a strand of his hair, and horoscopes written for him.
The Miscellany is largely comprised of books inscribed by Markham to Hamilton or annotated by him. Eleven volumes were authored by Markham's friend, Thomas Lake Harris, and others were written or edited by Markham. Of interest among Markham's personal documents is a copyright certificate from the Library of Congress dated 1900 for the poem "Lincoln, the Great Commoner." The printed matter consists of annotated articles, clippings, programs, and prose and poems about and by Markham, many of which seemed to have been collected by Hamilton for her biography of him.
The Addition includes programs, poems, and articles pertaining to Hamilton; some correspondence of Markham's wife, Anna Catherine Markham; and a book of poems by Markham's mother, Elizabeth Markham, published in 1921.
The Oversize is comprised of poems, scrapbooks, photographs, and memorabilia.
Letters to and from Markham, Hamilton, and others, with most from Markham to Hamilton.
Handwritten, typescript, and printed copies of poems by Markham with some in notebooks and some in sheet music.
Handwritten and typescript copies of speeches, articles, a radio script, and a motion picture script.
A typescript, drafts, authorization letters, biographical sketches, and a photograph relating to Hamilton's unpublished biography of Markham, "The Man with the Hoe, the Poem, the Poet, and the Problem: The Intellectual Biography of Edwin Markham."
Scrapbooks of clippings, photographs, correspondence, programs, poems, and photocopies pertaining to Markham and Hamilton.
Photographs of Markham and Hamilton and others and a print of the original painting "The Man with the Hoe."
A plaster cast of Markham's hand, a strand of his hair, and horoscopes.
Inscribed books, mostly by Markham to Hamilton, and personal documents and printed matter.
Correspondence, poems, articles, printed matter, scripts, and phototographs.
Poems, scrapbooks, photographs, and memorabilia.
The papers of Arnold Moss (1910-1989) span the years 1935-1987 with the bulk of the material covering the period 1953-1987. Although Moss's acting career included roles in film and on radio and television, with related work as a narrator and an announcer, the main focus of his work was on the stage. Likewise, the main focus of the Moss Papers is on his roles in the theater as an actor, director, producer, and educator. Moss gained particular acclaim for his performances in the plays of William Shakespeare. This collection of his papers consists of three series: General Correspondence, Theater File, and Subject File.
The General Correspondence series, 1954-1987, documents Moss's interests and activities primarily as they relate to his career. The major portion consists of letters received from friends and professional colleagues, although copies of letters sent are also included. Topics include efforts to gain employment as an actor, his work at colleges and universities, and his affiliation with professional organizations. Prominent correspondents include Philip Burton, Bernard Malamud, Arthur Miller, and Harold Prince.
The Theater File, 1953-1987, comprises the largest portion of the papers and reflects the range of Moss's stage work. There are lengthy files on George Bernard Shaw's play, Back to Methuselah, which Moss adapted into a shorter version and coproduced with the Theatre Guild for a tour and Broadway run in 1957-1958. Moss also acted in the production, playing Shaw. The following year Moss founded and starred in a touring repertory company called the Shakespeare Festival Players. Records relating to the company include contracts, an itinerary, financial files, and press clippings. Also documented in the file is Moss's position as an American specialist in theater for the United States Department of State. He toured countries in Central and South America and later in Africa and the Far East giving performances and lectures. Files on concert readings relate to the one-man programs of dramatic readings such as "A Goodly Heritage," "The Seven Ages of Man," and "Windows on America" that Moss performed at colleges and universities and at civic and cultural organizations from the 1950s into the 1980s. For twenty years, Moss performed annually at the Library of Congress as part of the Gertrude Clarke Whittall Poetry and Literature Series, and the related files contain correspondence, scripts, programs, and production notes. Most scripts are filed in a separate scripts section because Moss used the scripts for more than one production. The scripts are annotated, and many contain lighting and sound cues and stage diagrams.
The Subject File, 1935-1987, contains material relating to Moss's other activities, his organizational affiliations, and his academic studies. Files on film, sound recordings, and television containing information in these areas are limited, and these aspects of his career are not well documented in the collection.
In addition to his work in the performing arts, Moss created crossword puzzles appearing in the New York Times Magazine and other publications. The crossword puzzle files contain correspondence with the New York Times puzzle editors and drafts of the puzzles. Speeches and writings files contain drafts of published and unpublished articles and speeches primarily relating to the theater. The file on New York University contains material on the doctoral degree which Moss started in the 1930s and completed in the 1970s with a dissertation on professional actors as guest artists in college and university theatrical productions.
Letters received and a few letters sent.
Scripts, correspondence, playbills and programs, clippings, contracts, financial records, and other material relating to Moss's work in the theater.
Correspondence, notes, résumés, clippings, speeches, writings, draft crossword puzzles, and printed matter.
The Oral History Collection spans the years 1959 to 1979 and consists of nineteen volumes containing transcripts of approximately eighty interviews conducted by the Bancroft Library Regional Oral History Office at the University of California at Berkeley. The transcripts are accompanied by introductions, tables of content, indexes, and supplementary material including photographs and copies of correspondence, reports, and clippings. The interviews are arranged alphabetically by name of the oral history project.
The bulk of the interviews relate to California state government and politics. They include twenty-seven interviews from the Earl Warren Oral History Project concerning health insurance, labor, forced removal and incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II, Warren's early years in Bakersfield, and his relations as governor with the public, press, and state legislature. An extensive interview with Merrell Farnham Small, administrative secretary in the governor's office from 1945 to 1953, is also included. Other oral history projects pertaining to California are the Governmental History Documentation Project which is represented in this collection by an interview with Roger Kent, vice chairman and chairman of the California Democratic State Central Committee from 1954 to 1965, and an oral history project documenting the career of Walter Gordon, lawyer, civil rights leader, governor of the Virgin Islands, and chairman of the California Adult Authority, a state agency responsible for setting terms and granting paroles for adult prison inmates.
The collection also contains thirteen interviews from the Suffragists Oral History Project. Included are interviews with Helen Valeska Bary, Sara Bard Field, Burnita Shelton Matthews, Alice Paul, Jeannette Rankin, Rebecca Hourwich Reyher, and Mabel Vernon, among others. The interviews explore their subject's early formative years and their subsequent efforts on behalf of woman's suffrage, welfare and labor reform, world peace, and passage of the Equal Rights Amendment. An interview with Caroline Service, wife of diplomat John S. Service, forms part of the China Series. Her interview covers her years in China from 1933 to 1940 as the wife of a foreign service officer and her husband's arrest in 1945 for allegedly passing secret documents to Amerasia magazine, his testimony before the Loyalty Review Board in 1951, and his subsequent firing by the State Department.
The papers of Donald Theodore Giles (1898-1983) span the years 1926-1982, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the years 1941-1945. Correspondence, notebooks, photographs, and printed matter chiefly reflect the years Giles spent as a prisoner of war during World War II. Giles, then a commander in the United States Navy, arrived on Guam on 7 May 1941 to become the vice governor of the island and the executive officer of the naval station. When Guam fell to the Japanese on 10 December 1941, Giles, along with other military personnel and some civilians, was taken prisoner. In January 1942, the Japanese transported Giles and the others to the prisoner-of-war camp at Zentsuji on the island of Shikoku and incarcerated them along with British, Australian, and Dutch military personnel. The Americans were moved in 1945 to a prison camp at Roku Roshi on the island of Honshu, where Giles was liberated in September.
The notebooks contain the names, addresses, and autobiographies of United States and Allied military personnel and civilians who were imprisoned at the camp at Zentsuji, as well as a roster of personnel on Guam. Giles used one of the notebooks to record the letters he received from his mother, and his wife Virginia Basil Giles. Other correspondence from his wife and son, Donald T. Giles, Jr., during this period appears in the correspondence file as well. Photographs show the prisoners at the Zentsuji camp, United States Marine Corps troops in combat on Guam, and Guam after World War II. Other items of note are the magazines bound by Giles while in the camp, photocopies made of sketches depicting life in Japanese prison camps, and a letter in the general correspondence dated 18 September 1945 concerning George Scharff, a German national who reportedly raised a swastika over his house on Guam when the Japanese invaded the island.
After returning to the United States, Giles resumed his military career and became concerned with legislation dealing with prisoners of war. The legislation file includes excerpts from the testimonies of prisoners of war about their mental and physical health two years after their release from Japanese prison camps and Giles's testimony for the War Crimes Office in 1946. He retired from the military in 1953. Sometime later Giles produced a manuscript about his experiences at the camp at Zentsuji entitled "The Reluctant Guest." In 1994, Donald T. Giles, Jr., edited his father's manuscript and published it under the title Captive of the Rising Sun.
The papers of the Hulsizer family span the years 1915-1941, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period between 1917 and 1919. The collection consists primarily of letters from Edith Hulsizer Copher and her sister, Sophy Hulsizer Powell, to family members during World War I. Copher described her work at the Harvard U.S. Army Base Hospital No. 5, British Expeditionary Force, near Paris, France, and commented on local social life and customs. Powell's letters were written chiefly in 1919 when she lived in London, England, as the wife of American commercial attaché, Fred Wilbur Powell, and reflect the social life of the expatriate community in London. The collection also includes newspaper clippings pertaining to the Hulsizer family.
The papers of Charles Maass span the years 1912-1924. Maass served as an assistant to the Special Panama Canal Commission created by the secretary of the War Department in 1921. Visiting the Canal Zone from June to August 1921, the commission was charged to report on the care, maintenance, sanitation, operation, and governance of the Panama Canal and the Canal Zone, including matters relating to the Panama Railroad and Panama Railroad Steamship Company. The collection includes drawings, notes, photographs, poems, printed matter, scrapbooks, writings, and a journal documenting Maass's tour of Panama, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, and Cuba.
The papers of Hanson Weightman Baldwin (1903-1991) date from 1920 to 1978 and most prominently document his student years at the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Maryland, along with his subsequent tour of active duty in the navy, his early years as a general assignment newspaper reporter, and his participation as an active member of both the United States Naval Academy Alumni Association and the Naval War College, Washington, D.C. The papers are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, and Miscellany.
The Correspondence series contains letters exchanged between Baldwin and his parents which provide details of Baldwin's years at the United States Naval Academy and describe the atmosphere of academy life in the period immediately following World War I. A file containing report cards and other school records from his student days is located in the Subject File, while the Miscellany series includes several personal notebooks kept by Baldwin at the academy.
Following his graduation from the Naval Academy, Baldwin served as an officer aboard the battleship Texas and the destroyer Breck. In 1928 he began his career as a newspaper reporter after having resigned from active naval duty the previous year. Baldwin's letters to his parents in the Correspondence series provide information on his life as a young naval officer and also on his early years as a general assignment reporter, first with the Baltimore Sun in 1928 and a year later with the New York Times, the paper with which he would be associated for the remainder of his career. Although the Correspondence also contains letters to and from friends and former shipmates which further document this period of Baldwin's life, there are few letters in the series which illuminate his newspaper career after his appointment in 1937 by the Times as the first full-time military correspondent, and later military editor, on an American newspaper.
Baldwin's service as a commissioned officer in the navy, both on active duty and in the Naval Reserve, is also documented in the Subject File. Records in this file concerning his resignation in 1933 give evidence to the conflict which arose between Baldwin's position as a Naval Academy graduate and naval officer, whose code required conduct loyal to the service, and his role as a newspaper reporter, whose commitment to objective and unprejudiced reporting demanded freedom of expression, when an article written by Baldwin contained information that was deemed sensitive by naval authorities. Explaining his position in a memorandum to the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation dated 1 March 1933, Baldwin wrote, "Loyalty cannot be interpreted from my viewpoint as preventing me the free and unabridged statement of fact or expression of opinion."
The Subject File also contains records relating to Baldwin's appointment as president of the United States Naval Academy Alumni Association and to his membership on the board of advisors of the Naval War College. Baldwin's literary manuscripts, few of which are included in the collection, are filed in the Speeches and Writings File.
Letters sent and received, including correspondence with family members, postcards, and miscellaneous enclosures.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, printed matter, press releases, reports, school records, minutes of meetings, documents, and miscellaneous items.
Typescripts, printed matter, and notes relating to the speeches and writings of Hanson Baldwin and others.
Newspaper clippings, printed matter, notes and notebooks, and cards.
The papers of Anna Maria Roberts Evans (circa 1828-circa 1905) span the years 1835-1914, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period between 1855 and 1895. The collection consists principally of correspondence relating to the Society of Friends (Quakers). Anna Maria Evans, the primary individual in the collection and an active member of the Society of Friends, lived near Rochester, New Hampshire, where she and her husband, Thomas H. Evans, owned an apple orchard. Most of the letters were written by her female relatives and friends living in New England. The letters discuss details of everyday life, faith and religious activities, and to some extent touch upon Quaker involvement in the abolition of slavery, women's rights, religious tolerance, and temperance during the second half of the nineteenth century.
The letters of Roanna Fox Bean, a close friend of Evans, span a fifty-year period from their student days in the 1850s at the Friends' Boarding School in Providence, Rhode Island, to Bean's death in 1905. Bean and her husband James, an Indian agent and real estate developer, lived at various times in Iowa, Minnesota, and California. Her letters include accounts of life in these locales. Other letters were from women who were Quaker missionaries or wives of Quaker officials both in the United States and overseas, including Gertrude W. Cartland, M. H. Morrell, and Susan T. Thompson. Education figures prominently throughout the collection, especially in the letters of Elizabeth V. Roberts, an early graduate of the State Normal School in Moorhead, Minnesota. The subject of mental illness is mentioned periodically in letters from various members of the family.
The death of the Evanses' young son Winslow in 1881 while at boarding school is recorded in a file under his name. Their daughter Flora Anna, who worked in and around Boston, was active in the revival movement of the late nineteenth century and wrote frequently of her involvement in religious organizations and attendance at revivals, particularly those of Dwight L. Moody and Sam Jones.
The Civil War is also an important subject in the collection. Although pacifists, thousands of Quaker men of draft age were conscripted during the war. Most served despite their moral opposition, though some chose flight to Canada. Letters in the collection recount such decisions, along with reports of suffering and loss of life caused by the war and the prayers of those at home for the safe return of their loved ones. Other letters chronicle war relief efforts, especially among African American refugees fleeing the South, and contain favorable references to President Abraham Lincoln.
The pursuit of arable land in conjunction with the nation's westward expansion is documented in numerous letters. In addition to offering religious instruction, many of these Quaker settlements promoted advancements in education, farming methods, and social reform for the benefit of believer and non-believer alike. A miscellany file contains a Roberts family genealogy and material relating to Evans's education. There is also a file of printed matter consisting of advertisements, handbills, inserts, programs, receipts, and religious tracts. Among the oversize items are religious printed matter and broadsides advertising dry goods and furniture.
The papers of Dan Golenpaul (1901-1974) span the years 1934-1981, with the bulk of material dated 1934-1977. The collection includes correspondence, writings, scripts, contracts, clippings, and guest lists relating particularly to the "Information Please" program produced by Golenpaul on radio and television and to his subsequent publication, Information Please Almanac. Material relating to other radio and publishing ventures include correspondence, scripts, clippings, and notes for "The Education of Hyman Kaplan," "Raising Your Parents," "Magazine of the Air," and The First Years in College. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically. Radio show correspondents include "Information Please" performers Clifton Fadiman and John Kieran and other writers or entertainers such as the Marx brothers, Chico, Harpo, and Groucho. Much of the Information Please Almanac correspondence is with political figures, especially with Democrats in the 1960s and early 1970s, such as Hubert H. Humphrey, Edward M. Kennedy, and Edmund S. Muskie. Golenpaul solicited essays for the almanac from international political figures and social commentators, including Léon Blum, Gunnar Myrdal, and George Bernard Shaw, along with Americans such as Bernard Baruch, Eleanor Roosevelt, and Earl Warren. Also included in the papers are essays by Keyes Beech, Edward M. Kennedy, Leon H. Keyserling, and Archibald MacLeish.
The papers of William Vans Murray (1760-1803) span the period from 1784 to 1805 with the majority of the materials falling between the years 1797 and 1801. Diaries, official documents, and correspondence, principally of an official nature, comprise the collection.
Murray had a short but relatively distinguished career as a diplomat. In 1797, after serving three terms representing Maryland in the United States House of Representatives, he was appointed by George Washington as minister to the new Republic of Batavia (Netherlands). In 1800, John Adams temporarily assigned him to a special diplomatic team including Oliver Ellsworth and William Richardson Davie to settle the undeclared war between the French Republic and the United States. The negotiations took place in Paris between June and September 1800 and produced a convention which was largely a result of Murray's diplomatic skills. Included in the collection are Murray's notes on the progress of these negotiations and an official copy of the convention signed on September 30, 1800.
The four volumes of Murray's diaries include his notes during the period of his diplomatic assignment from 1797 to 1801 and notations made in the latter part of 1801 after his return to the United States and throughout 1802. Besides the comments on the 1800 negotiations noted above, Murray describes a fete given by Joseph Bonaparte at his chateau, Môrtefontaine, to celebrate the successful conclusion of the talks. The majority of the notations deal with aspects of Murray's diplomatic activity at The Hague and Paris.
Correspondence also deals with matters of an official nature and includes letters with individuals such as Timothy Pickering, Oliver Ellsworth, Fulwar Shipwith, Francis Lewis Taney, Rufus King, and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney. For use in confidential official correspondence, Murray devised an encode sheet, a fragment of which is included in the collection. There is a sizeable number of letters using this code. Other correspondence includes letters from Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, Marquis de Lafayette, and Joseph Bonaparte.
Miscellaneous items include Murray's commission to serve on the negotiating team, a letter from George Washington, a variety of laissez passer for Murray and others to travel to the Netherlands and France, and several letters from Americans reporting problems that they had dealing with the French. Many of the items are in French, while others are in Dutch or English.
An addition of forty-one items to the William Vans Murray Papers spans the years 1778-1801 and consists of correspondence, a portion of a treaty, and an invitation placed in a bound volume.
The correspondence consists of letters and transcripts between various parties involved in the American Revolution, the Treaty of 1787 with England, and the XYZ Affair.
Correspondents in the addition include John Adams, John Quincy Adams, Joseph Bonaparte, Charles Guillaume Frédéric Dumas, James Jay, John Paul Jones, Rufus King, Marquis de Lafayette, Arthur Lee, Robert R. Livingston, James Madison, John Marshall, James McHenry, Lewis Morris, Samuel Peters, Timothy Pickering, Joseph Pitcairn, John P. Ripley, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord, Francis Lewis Taney, George Washington, and Oliver Wolcott.
Four diaries dealing primarily with Murray's diplomatic service in the Netherlands and as special envoy to France in 1800.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, mostly while in diplomatic service in the Netherlands and France.
Commissions, laissez passer for Murray and other Americans, official complaints, a copy of the convention signed on 30 Sept. 1800, between the United States and France, and a letter from Murray to his wife, Charlotte.
Correspondence, a portion of a treaty, and an invitation placed in a bound volume.
The papers of William G. Niederland (1904-1993) span the years 1810-1982, with the bulk of the material dating from 1952 to 1982. The collection documents Niederland's work in the field of psychoanalysis as an author, educator, and clinician. The papers consist of correspondence, patient files, drafts of writings and lectures, research files, and material from professional organizations. They are organized in five series: Correspondence, Patient File, Subject File, Writings File, and Miscellany.
Niederland, a native of Germany, practiced medicine in Europe for ten years before immigrating to the United States in 1940. He was born in 1904 in Schippenbeil, East Prussia, the son of an orthodox rabbi. After receiving a medical degree from the University of Würzburg in 1929, Niederland worked for several years in Berlin, Düsseldorf, and Gailingen. In 1934, he fled Nazi Germany and established a private psychiatric practice in Milan. With the signing of the Italian-German military alliance in 1939, Niederland once again fled fascism. After a brief stay in a refugee camp in England, he secured a position as a doctor and surgeon on a British merchant ship. In December 1940, American officials permitted him to enter the United States.
Between 1947 and 1953, Niederland underwent formal psychoanalytic training at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. For over thirty years, he maintained private practices in New York and New Jersey and held professional positions at Mount Sinai Hospital, Altro Health and Rehabilitation Services, and Haversack General Hospital. He taught for twenty years at the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, New York. Niederland served as coeditor of Psychoanalytic Quarterly from 1958 to 1980 and president of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York from 1971 to 1973.
Niederland researched and wrote on numerous topics. In 1951, he published his first work on Daniel Paul Schreber, a case made famous by Sigmund Freud's analysis of Schreber's memoirs in 1911. Niederland's analysis focused particularly on Schreber's childhood and his relationship with his father, Dr. Daniel Gottlieb Moritz Schreber. Niederland wrote numerous papers on the subject and in 1974 published The Schreber Case: Psychoanalytic Profile of a Paranoid Personality. Beginning in the early 1960s, Niederland developed the concept of the "survivor syndrome" in working with survivors of the Nazi Holocaust. He found that survivors experience unresolved feelings of guilt and grief that lead to depression, anxiety, insomnia, personality change, and hyperamnesia.
Niederland also applied psychoanalytic research methods to the study of creativity and the creative process. He noted the frequency of perplexing and often tragic experiences, such as illness or physical disabilities, encountered by creative people during childhood. He found that such experiences enhanced their emotional reactivity and responsiveness to internal and external stimuli. Niederland also coined the term "psychogeography," a field of study that examines underlying psychological forces operative in geographical pursuits such as exploration and analyzes the anthropomorphic nature of explorers' views of the earth.
The Correspondence series consists largely of letters sent and received from colleagues in the United States and Europe. The correspondence is primarily personal and largely concerns Niederland's research and writings. Prominent correspondents include Jacob A. Arlow, Lotte Köhler, Bertram D. Lewin, Ella Lingens, Wolfgang Loch, and Jacques M. Quen.
The Patient File includes notes from therapy sessions conducted largely in the 1960s. The case of Arline Blackman is particularly well documented and was used by Niederland to study the psychological effect of facial disfigurement.
The largest group of papers in the Subject File concerns the Kris study group established by Ernst Kris at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. These files consist of minutes, case presentations, and memoranda dating just prior to Kris' death in February 1957 and continuing into the 1970s. Niederland's work in Europe is documented through correspondence while he was in Milan and a series of reference letters written for him between 1930 and 1940. The series also contains research material on such topics as creativity and psychogeography. The Subject File also includes Niederland's research on Heinrich Schliemann, the "father" of modern archeology. Included are photocopies of original Schliemann correspondence given to Niederland by a member of Schliemann's family.
The Writing File contains drafts, notes, and correspondence related to Niederland's writings. The largest group of material concerns Niederland's research on the Schreber case, focusing in particular on Schreber's family and childhood. The series also includes published and unpublished writings by others collected by Niederland or sent to him by colleagues.
The Miscellany series includes information about Niederland's education, awards, and appointments. The series also includes examples of the artwork of Dietlind Kinzelmann who sent her work to Niederland after reading his analysis of the creative process. Also included is printed matter largely from professional conferences and organizations.
Correspondence and attached and related material.
Notes and correspondence concerning individuals treated by Niederland.
Correspondence, minutes, research files, biographical material, academic calendars, notes, and printed matter chiefly concerning Niederland's professional associations and research in the United States.
Drafts, correspondence, research files, reviews, and printed matter organized into writings by Niederland and by others.
Awards, certificates, artwork, photographs, and printed matter.
The papers of Charles Henry Brent span the years 1860-1991, but are concentrated in the period 1901-1929. The papers document Brent's service as first missionary bishop to the Philippine Islands representing the Protestant Episcopal Church in America, 1901-1918; his term as chief of the Chaplain Service of the American Expeditionary Forces, 1918-1919; his activities as a bishop of the church and as a member of various conferences on the opium problem; and his presidency of the World Conference on Faith and Order, 1927. The papers consist of correspondence, chiefly 1908-1929, sermon notes, diaries, manuscripts of books and articles, speeches, a subject file on the opium conferences, scrapbooks, and printed material. There is also a related group of papers assembled by Remsen B. Ogilby, who died in 1943 before he had completed his planned biography of Bishop Brent. Additions contain family and personal correspondence, obituaries, articles, speeches, photographs and miscellaneous material concerning his church missions, conference work, and personal relationships.
Prominent correspondents include Lyman Abbott, James Bryce, Nicholas Murray Butler, Austen Chamberlain, Calvin Coolidge, Randall Davidson, W. Cameron Forbes, Herbert Hoover, Philander Chase Knox, Cosmo Gordon Lang, Jr., Pierpont Morgan, John R. Mott, Alfred C. W. H. Northcliffe, Walter Hines Page, Francis G. Peabody, George Wharton Pepper, John J. Pershing, Whitelaw Reid, Theodore Roosevelt, Elihu Root, William Howard Taft, and Leonard Wood.
The 1979 Addition spans the years 1888-1976, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1888-1929. Brent corresponded fairly regularly with his sisters, and letters to them as well as those to his mother comment on subjects such as his missionary work in the Philippines, attendance at various religious and political international conferences, and the Protestant Episcopal diocese of Western New York.
The diary in this addition, dated 1907, relates to diaries in the original collection. The general correspondence is strictly of a personal nature. One folder, consisting of letters to Samuel W. Drury and his family, is composed entirely of copies of originals not included in this collection. The Writings include notes of sermons given in 1902 and several poems and talks. The Miscellany is comprised of biographical data presented at an American bicentennial ceremony honoring Brent in 1976.
Correspondents among this additional material include Brent's sisters Evelyn, Edith S, and Helen C. C. Brent, and his mother Frances Sophia Cummings Brent. Other individuals to whom he wrote were Mrs. John Markoe and Edith Eaton (Mrs. William B. Cutter).
The 1996 Addition spans the years 1919-1991, but is concentrated in the period 1919-1929. It consists of correspondence, articles and addresses by Brent, obituaries, memorials, photographs, and miscellaneous material. The correspondence dates from 1919-1929 and contains letters written almost exclusively to Reginald N. Willcox and family, rector of Saint Luke's Church, Jamestown, N. Y., a parish in Brent's diocese of Western New York. The issues mentioned chiefly concern parish financial problems and Willcox's family. Speeches and writings are predominantly addresses before the conventions of the diocese of Western New York, 1922-1925, and the articles by Brent concern religious matters.
Bound diaries.
Letters sent and received.
Bound and loose notes and related material.
Holograph and typewritten drafts and galley proofs.
Letters received chronologically arranged by month. Also material concerning the Bishop Brent Memorial Fund.
Memorabilia, commissions, licenses, passports, poems, fragments, financial papers, photographs, and Bibles.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, and printed and near-printed matter relating to Brent's service on various conferences on opium.
Clippings and typed copies of Brent's articles and editorials mounted in scrapbooks.
Pamphlets, clippings, and near-printed and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, notes, and manuscripts assembled by Remsen B. Ogilby, including typed copies of Brent's letters and transcripts of excerpts from Brent's diaries, 1901-1929, and drafts of Ogilby's biography.
A diary, family and general correspondence, speeches and writings, and miscellany.
Correspondence, speeches and writings, biographical material, photographs, and printed items.
The papers of Cornelius Marius Schoonmaker (1839-1889) span the years 1833-1931, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1860-1890. Correspondence, a letterbook, a night order book, scrapbooks, and a manuscript of a biography of Schoonmaker constitute the collection. The correspondence is official and covers nearly all of Schoonmaker’s orders to duty and cruises. Of interest in the correspondence is George M. Robeson’s letter of May 15, 1873, ordering Schoonmaker to cruise to Newfoundland and to bring the survivors of the Polaris (screw tug) to Washington, D.C.
Correspondents include William E. Chandler, John Adolphus Bernard Dahlgren, Thomas A. Dornin, David Glasgow Farragut, Louis Malesherbes Goldsborough, John C. Howell, Richard W. Thompson, Issac Toucey, Gideon Welles, and William C. Whitney.
Schoonmaker’s biography, written by his father, Marius Schoonmaker, includes copies of letters to family and friends concerning Schoonmaker’s tours of duty, an account of his service in the Civil War, and a description of his death by drowning in a hurricane which also wrecked his ship, the Vandalia.
The papers of Jubal Anderson Early (1816-1894) span the years 1829-1930 and include correspondence, diaries, military papers, speeches and articles, clippings, a scrapbook, printed matter, and maps relating to his military, legal, and political careers.
The papers are divided into three series, Chronological File, Addition, and Oversize. Material prior to the Civil War reflects Early’s years as a cadet at the United States Military Academy, his army service, law practice, and Virginia political activities. Included are letters from John J. Cabell to his wife Henry Ann Cabell. Papers relating to Early’s experiences during the Civil War include items concerning his participation in the battles of First Bull Run and Williamsburg, the Gettysburg Campaign, and the Shenandoah Valley Campaign of 1864. Also in the papers are a report on the performance of General Isaac Trimble’s brigade in the Battle of Second Bull Run, reports by Generals Harry T. Hays and Clement A. Evans on skirmishes in the Mine Run Campaign, a list of units in G. T. Beauregard’s I Corps, Army of Northern Virginia (1862), and a return of troops commanded by Joseph E. Johnston in the spring of 1862. Postwar material, which comprises the bulk of the collection, includes papers on Early’s business affairs, especially the Louisiana lottery, his activities at the Southern Historical Society, and aid extended to Confederate families, including that of Jefferson Davis.
Correspondents include G. T. Beauregard, Raleigh E. Colston, John W. Daniel, Jefferson Davis, Varina Davis, Daniel Harvey Hill, Stonewall Jackson, Bradley T. Johnson, Joseph E. Johnston, Fitzhugh Lee, Robert E. Lee, Dabney Herndon Maury, John Singleton Mosby, and Earl Van Dorn.
Correspondence, military papers, and other material.
Correspondence, a diary, military papers, printed matter, a scrapbook, and speeches and writings.
Scrapbook
The records of the Frederick Douglass Memorial and Historical Association (FDMHA) span the years 1900-1990, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1950-1980. The collection is arranged in six series: Correspondence; Corporate Records; Miscellany; Printed Matter; Clippings; and Additions.
Based in Washington, D.C., the FDMHA was first envisioned in the will of Helen Pitts Douglass, Frederick Douglass's second wife, who bequeathed their home in Southeast Washington (Anacostia) to the American people as a memorial to her husband. It became the main function of the association to preserve the Frederick Douglass Memorial Home at Cedar Hill and to reunite surrounding lands once part of the estate into the whole of the memorial. The FDMHA also undertook to disseminate knowledge concerning Afro-American history in Washington and throughout America.
The collection includes minutes of meetings, reports, and related material not only of the FDMHA but also of the Frederick Douglass Housing Corporation, Inc. (FDHC), an organization closely allied to the association. Interaction between the two organizations, occasionally via the National Park Service, is documented throughout the records.
Much material reflects the personal interests of FDMHA's past president Mary E. C. Gregory, whose papers were intermingled among the association's records she gave to the Library. Other organizations represented among her files include the Museum of African Art (located first in a Douglass home on Capitol Hill and later a part of the Smithsonian Institution), the Douglass Glenn Gardens apartment complex, National Association of Colored Women, National Council of Negro Women, National Urban League, Anacostia Neighborhood Museum, and the Phyllis Wheatley Young Women's Christian Association in Washington, D.C.
Originals and copies of letters sent and received.
Record books, accounts, agreements, bylaws, deeds, fact sheets, incorporation papers, minutes and agendas, reports, and miscellaneous records.
Biographical file, material relating to various aspects of Afro-American history, speeches and statements, programs, invitations, menus, and other miscellany.
Pamphlets, leaflets, magazines, books.
Newspaper and magazine clippings
Photographs, printed matter, research material, and miscellany.
The papers of George William Goddard (1889-1987) span the years 1889-1984, with the majority of the items dating from 1940 through 1976. The collection documents Goddard's military service, his writings, research, and public speaking activities, and his pioneering advances in the field of aerial photographic reconnaissance. The papers consist of the following series: Chronological File, Writings File, Inventions File, Oral History Transcripts File, and Miscellany.
The Goddard Papers reflect the drive and enthusiasm of a man whose aspiration in life was the technological advancement of airborne photographic reconnaissance. Goddard's lifelong ambition began in 1919 with an assignment to McCook Field as officer-in-charge of aerial photographic research. Although he had joined the army with the sole intent of flying airplanes, Goddard quickly developed an intense interest in aerial photography. He spent the next thirty-four years advancing its technology and demonstrating its reconnaissance abilities to a rather skeptical army.
As the unofficial spokesman for airborne photographic reconnaissance, Goddard wrote articles for popular magazines, gave numerous slide lectures to professional and military groups, and obtained press coverage to promote the use of aerial photography in reconnaissance operations. These efforts, coupled with his belief that "a full-time push by one man in a given direction greatly exceeds in efficiency part-time opposition by many men," led to increased funding for Goddard's research and development laboratory at Wright Field, improved technology and new inventions, and ultimately, the military's recognition of the remarkable effectiveness of aerial photographic reconnaissance. The technology now standard in reconnaissance today--night and long-range photography, color emulsion, and other methods that enable reconnaissance to be accomplished by high-speed aircraft at all operational altitudes--is due to Goddard's ingenuity and determination.
The Chronological File, originally arranged by Goddard for use in his autobiographical writings, documents his personal, professional, and military experiences as a pioneer in the field of aerial photographic reconnaissance. The series contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, and other materials pertaining to Goddard's military assignments in the United States, Philippines, and Europe, the operations of aerial photographic sections under his command, promotions and awards, and activities after retirement. The Cuban Missile Crisis, in which Goddard played an important role, is represented by only a few newspaper articles. Correspondence, notes, printed materials, newspaper clippings, and articles provide a wealth of biographical information on Goddard and disclose the high regard in which he was held by military officials and civilians involved in aerial photographic reconnaissance.
The Writings File contains articles, transcripts, correspondence, and working papers relating to Goddard's books, papers, lectures, speeches, and other writing projects. This file also contains book reviews, correspondence, and notes pertaining to his autobiography, Overview: A Life-long Adventure in Aerial Photography, and correspondence concerning Goddard's suspicions that the Itek Corporation, the United States Air Force, and Doubleday Publishing Company conspired to halt sales of the book due to its unflattering portrayal of Gen. Henry "Hap" Arnold. Another notable item is an article published by National Geographic Magazine in 1930 entitled, "The Unexplored Philippines from the Air." Illustrated with photographs taken by Goddard, the article describes his experiences in 1928 as commanding officer of the Sixth Photographic Section, charged with making a photographic mosaic map of the unexplored northeast corner of Luzon Island.
The Inventions File consists primarily of patent grants, reports, and diagrams relating to Goddard's patented inventions. Also included in this series are correspondence, notes, and printed materials pertaining to the stereoscopic strip camera. This camera, which was never patented, was developed by Goddard and his colleagues in 1942 at Wright Field and was used to make stereo strips of Cuban missile sites in 1962.
The Oral History Transcripts File contains transcripts of oral history interviews conducted by Goddard for use in his autobiographical writings. The interviewees were military officers and civilians interested or active in the science of aerial photographic reconnaissance during the years of Goddard's military service, including Benjamin Foulois, Elliott Roosevelt, and Dwight D. Eisenhower. Also included are several interviews with Goddard conducted by others. Original tapes of most of the interviews have been transferred to the Motion Picture, Broadcasting, and Recorded Sound Division of the Library.
The final series in the collection, Miscellany, consists primarily of printed materials collected by Goddard. The file contains books, journals, and informational reports, mostly regarding the use of aerial photographic reconnaissance in World War II. Photographs of Goddard and of his family and friends, several stereograph cards, and a 3-D photograph with stereoscopic glasses are also included.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, newspaper clippings, articles, certificates, photographs, and printed matter relating to the personal, military, and business activities of Goddard.
Draft copies, articles, transcripts, correspondence, notes, working papers, and research materials relating to Goddard's writing projects.
Patent grants, reports, diagrams, correspondence, notes, and printed matter.
Transcripts of oral history interviews.
Books, journals, manuals, pamphlets, photographs, press kits, reports, studies, stereograph cards, a 3-D photograph with stereoscopic glasses, and other materials.
The papers of Edith Jacobson (1897-1978) span the years 1922 to 1977 and relate primarily to her career as a psychoanalyst. They include correspondence, writings, artwork, and a small amount of other professional and personal items. Much of the professional writing is in English, but most of the correspondence and poetry is in German.
Writings by Edith Jacobson and her colleagues in the field of psychoanalysis comprise the major portion of the collection. Topics include the study and treatment of depression and depressive conditions and object relations theory. One of Jacobson's early papers examines the psychological effects of imprisonment on female political prisoners and is based on her observations while being held as a prisoner by the Nazis before World War II. A brief description of her own experience as a prisoner can be found in a compilation of unpublished short stories and essays entitled "The American Oak Tree."
Letters received and a few copies of letters sent, primarily of a personal nature. Most in German.
Drafts and typescripts of books, papers, reviews, critiques, and poetry by Jacobson and papers and poetry written by others.
Pencil sketches, charcoal drawings, watercolors, reports of professional meetings, and a few personal items.
Drawings.
The papers of the physicist Louis Nicot Ridenour (1911-1959) span the years 1917-1960, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the postwar period, 1945-1959. The collection includes correspondence, draft and published writings, photographs, journals, reports, scientific papers, and printed matter arranged alphabetically by type of material.
Ridenour led the team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Radiation Laboratory that in the early 1940s developed the SCR 584, a radar device that was key to the first effective gun laying antiaircraft system. During 1944-1945 while chief of the Advisory Specialist Group of the United States Strategic Air Forces in Europe commanded by Carl Spaatz, Ridenour adapted the SCR 584 to the close control of Allied fighter bombers in foul weather. He pioneered the development of airborne radar and radar controlled bomb sights. Journals from the World War II service file in the collection are a daily record of Ridenour's activities in the European and North African theaters of air operations.
In the postwar period Ridenour endeavored to familiarize the general public with the science and policy issues related to the new technology of atomic weapons and digital computers by writing for publications such as Atlantic Monthly, Fortune, Saturday Review of Literature, Scientific American, and in preparing numerous encyclopedia articles. He also sought to reach other scientists and technologists, especially engineers, through articles in specialist publications and by editing and cowriting books such as Modern Physics for the Engineer and Radar Systems Engineering.
These papers mainly document the writing and editing phase of Ridenour's career. Some of Ridenour's early fiction from his high school and college days and his correspondence as the editor of the University of Chicago's Daily Maroon is included in the early education file. Ridenour's long-term writing projects and consultant relationship with publishers generated a substantial correspondence with editors, coauthors, sources, and readers. Notable correspondents represented in the speeches and writing file include Lyman Bryson, Norman Cousins, Peter H. Davison, Dennis Flanagan, Hiram Haydn, Byron K. Ledgerwood, Larry Lessing, Lawrence M. Levin, Herrymon Maurer, Charles W. Morton, A. J. Muste, Oliver A. Nelson, Isabel Paterson, Gerard Piel, Herbert Solow, and Edward Weeks.
Ridenour's writing and editorial activities also occasioned many letters in the general correspondence. Editors, publishers, and writers not previously listed include Joseph Alsop, Cary F. Baker, Curtis G. Benjamin, Hugh H. Handsfield, Carl G. Nagel, James M. Reid, Leon Svirsky, Orin Tovrov, Thornton Wilder, and Philip Wylie. Scientist with whom Ridenour corresponded include Ralph D. Bennett, Edward L. Bowles, B. Vivian Bowden, and Kenʼichi Shinohara.
The John Aldrich Stephenson Collection, consisting of the papers of several generations of Stephenson's ancestors, spans the years 1745-1966. The central figures are Joseph Winborn Hand (1792-1844); his wife, the former Catharine Worthington Fowler (1801-1865); their children, principally Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske (1835-1919); Elizabeth's husband, Asa Severance Fiske (1833-1925); the Fiskes' daughter, Zoë Worthington Fiske Aldrich (1864-1942); and Zoë's husband, Morton Arnold Aldrich (1874-1956). The collection is organized into nine series: Diaries, Journals, Notebooks, and Notes; General Correspondence and Related Items; Special Correspondence; Speeches and Writings; Biography and Genealogy; Account Books and Financial Papers; Travel File; Pictorial Material; and Miscellaneous Printed Material.
The earliest papers are chiefly those of relatives of Catharine Worthington Fowler Hand, especially persons with the surname Chauncy (later spelled Chauncey), including her grandfather, Elnathan Chauncy (1724-1796), a minister in Connecticut. Chauncy was possibly the author of a group of unsigned sermons, 1759-1798, more than half of which were written for congregations of Indians. In another handwriting are unsigned sermons dated 1799-1804. There are also a few early papers of Joseph Winborn Hand's ancestors, including his grandfather Return Jonathan Meigs (1740-1823), Continental army colonel and agent of the United States Office of Indian Affairs for the Cherokee Indians, and his uncle Return Jonathan Meigs (1764-1824), United States senator from Ohio, governor of the same state, and postmaster general.
Catharine Worthington Fowler Hand's brother, William Chauncey Fowler (1793-1881), an author and professor successively at Middlebury College and Amherst College, married Noah Webster's daughter Harriet. Fowler edited one edition of Webster's dictionary and wrote a widely used textbook on English grammar. He is represented by occasional letters dated 1811-1875 and by numerous letters from Catharine to him. The letters, 1821-1846, of Elisa Ann Fowler (d. 1849), sister of Catharine and William, are from East Guilford (renamed Madison in 1826), Connecticut, where she sometimes cared for Catharine's children, and from Durham, Connecticut, where she kept house for her parents. There are a few personal letters, 1802-1840, from her mother, Catharine Chauncy Fowler (1765-1841), as well as letters, 1824-1826, from her father, Reuben Rose Fowler (1763-1844), who managed farm lands for his son-in-law, Joseph Winborn Hand.
The principal correspondents before the Civil War are Joseph Winborn Hand and his wife Catharine Worthington Fowler Hand. Joseph is represented by almost three hundred letters, 1816-1844, complemented by four diaries, 1814-1817; Catharine by more than four hundred letters, 1820-1860. Most of Joseph's letters are addressed to Catharine from Washington, D.C., where he rose from clerical assistant to solicitor in the Post Office Department. Beginning in 1835, he served as chief clerk in the Patent Office until he died in 1844. In his letters he offered advice about rearing the children, passed along news of friends and neighbors in Washington, and commented upon political leaders and events.
For the years 1844-1860, the correspondence consists largely of letters exchanged among Catharine and four of the five Hand children who survived infancy. Chauncey Meigs Hand (d. 1865), the oldest child, wrote chiefly from Yale College, where he graduated; from Oxford, Maryland, and Alexandria, Virginia, where he taught school; and from the city of New York, where he struggled unsuccessfully to establish himself as a lawyer. Catharine Chauncey Hand, who died in 1854, wrote from schools she attended in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, and the city of New York; her letters are complemented by drawings, verses, school essays, and a small diary, 1846. Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske's letters are chiefly from schools she attended with her sister Catharine, from places in Virginia and South Carolina where she taught, and from Madison, to which she often returned for short periods. Charles Fowler Hand (1837-1874) wrote to his family from several preparatory schools and from Williams College and Andover Theological Seminary.
There is also prewar correspondence of the Fiske (sometimes spelled Fisk) family, principally of Samuel Wheelock Fiske (1828-1864) as he prepared for the ministry and then as he served as pastor of the Congregational church in Madison, 1848-1860; his brother Asa Severance Fiske as he studied for the ministry, met and married Elizabeth Worthington Hand, and became pastor of Plymouth Congregational Church in St. Paul, Minnesota, 1858-1860; and Laura Severance Fisk[e] (1795-1870), who wrote from Shelburne, Massachusetts, to her sons Samuel and Asa, 1850-1860. A bound volume contains letters, 1837-1856, between Richard Dennis Mowry and Lucy Morton Albee Mowry, chiefly before their marriage, while she lived and taught school in Oxford, Massachusetts, and he lived in Uxbridge. Their grandson, Morton Arnold Aldrich, later married Zoë Worthington Fiske, daughter of Asa Severance and Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske.
The most important wartime letters are from Samuel Wheelock Fiske, who commanded a company in the Fourteenth Connecticut Infantry and died from wounds received in the battle of the Wilderness, and Asa Severance Fiske, who wrote diaries as well as letters, 1862-1865, while serving as chaplain for the Fourth Minnesota Infantry and later as assistant superintendent of contrabands for the Department of West Tennessee. He built Camp Fiske at Memphis to house several thousand freedmen, toured northern cities to raise money for food, clothes, and medical supplies, and lobbied for the establishment of the Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands in the War Department. There are also letters from Charles Fowler Hand, who was wounded at Beverly Ford (Brandy Station, Virginia) while serving as an enlisted man in the Second United States Cavalry and then had a relatively uneventful year as a captain in the Sixty-third United States Colored Infantry, and Chauncey Meigs Hand, who enlisted in the Second New York Cavalry and was twice wounded in battle. Neither Charles nor Chauncey recovered from their wartime experiences. Chauncey died in Madison in 1865 and Charles in St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington, D.C., in 1874. Letters from Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske were written from Memphis when she was with her husband and from boarding houses and relatives' homes when she could not be with him.
After the Civil War, Asa Severance Fiske held pastorates successively in Rockville, Connecticut; Rochester, New York; San Francisco, California; and Ithaca, New York. He held pastorates until he was eighty-four, retiring at last in New Orleans. The collection includes his letters from various locations, a report he wrote in 1871 for the United States Bureau of Education on the relation between education and crime in New England, and numerous manuscripts of sermons and articles, along with books, pamphlets, and clipped articles. Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske is represented by manuscript poems, essays, and stories, as well as a scrapbook of clippings of her poems as published in periodicals. There are also postwar letters from David Fisk, Jane (Jeannie) Isabel Fiske Hawkes (Mrs. David B. Hawkes), Rebecca Wheelock Fiske Hart (Mrs. Burdett Hart), Morton Arnold Aldrich, Zoë Worthington Fiske Aldrich, and Morton Arnold Aldrich's parents, Charles Arnold Aldrich and Helen Francelia Mowry Aldrich. Helen Aldrich's cousin, William T. G. Morton, the dentist who discovered the anesthetic use of ether in surgery, is represented by letters of 20 September 1862 and 20 September 1866.
The Aldriches are further represented by account books and financial papers of Charles Arnold Aldrich's dry goods business in Boston; diaries kept by Morton Arnold Aldrich in 1887 and 1888 while traveling with his parents in the Azores, Portugal, France, Switzerland, Italy, Holland, and England; letters written by Morton and his mother on a trip around the world, 1895-1897; and letters from Morton while he camped in the mountains of North Carolina during several summers in the 1920s. Genealogical charts showing selected family members are available with the paper finding aid in the Reading Room of the Manuscript Division
Diaries and journals kept by Joseph Winborn Hand and Catharine Worthington Fowler Hand in the early nineteenth century; by Catharine Chauncey Hand and Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske in the mid-nineteenth century; by Asa Severance Fiske during the Civil War; and by Helen Francelia Mowry Aldrich and Morton Arnold Aldrich in the late nineteenth century; along with other records.
Chiefly letters to and from Joseph Winborn Hand and his wife, Catharine Worthington Fowler Hand; Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske and her husband, Asa Severance Fiske; and Zoë Worthington Fiske Aldrich and her husband, Morton Arnold Aldrich.
Letters exchanged between Richard Dennis Mowry and his wife, the former Lucy Morton Albee, chiefly before their marriage.
Manuscripts and printed works, principally of Asa Severance Fiske; his wife, Elizabeth Worthington Hand Fiske; and their daughters, Zoë Worthington Fiske Aldrich and Christabel Forsyth Fiske.
Genealogical notes and charts and published obituaries, histories, and biographical sketches.
Chiefly related to Charles Arnold Aldrich.
Scrapbook and correspondence relating to the travels of Charles Arnold Aldrich; his wife, Helen Francelia Mowry Aldrich; and his son, Morton Arnold Aldrich
Drawings and reproductions of photographs and paintings.
Chiefly clippings, pamphlets, and periodicals related to members of the Hand, Fiske, and Aldrich families.
The papers of Garson Kanin (1912-1999) span the years 1941-1965 and consist of General Correspondence and a Production File.
The General Correspondence features letters exchanged with the playwright, editor, and biographer Robert E. Sherwood beginning when Kanin was a private in military training in 1941 and ending with Sherwood's death in 1955. Other correspondents include René Clair, Alec Guinness, and Dorothy Massey.
The Production File is comprised of scripts of plays and screenplays that Kanin wrote or directed including The Amazing Adele, Born Yesterday, The Boy, Come On Strong, The Diary of Anne Frank, Do Re Mi, and A Hole in the Head. The scripts are accompanied by related matter such as casting deliberations, performance evaluations, technical notes, financial records, foreign productions, stock and amateur rights, publicity, and printed matter.
Letters sent and received by Kanin.
Article, book, film, and stage files.
The papers of Howard Teichmann (1916-1987) span the years 1857-2001, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period from 1940 to 1987. The collection contains appointment calendars, contracts, correspondence, financial records, notes, printed matter, and writings pertaining to Teichmann's personal life and career as an author, educator, and theater administrator. It is arranged in six series: Correspondence, Personal File, Organizations File, Writings File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Correspondence series contains letters received and copies of letters sent by Teichmann. Notable correspondents include George Abbott, Imogene Coca, Helen Hayes, John Houseman, Lucy Kroll, Harold Prince, Dore Schary, Roger L. Stevens, Jule Styne, Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger, and Earl Wilson. Teichmann's correspondence with George S. Kaufman is located in the background information pertaining to the book George S Kaufman: An Intimate Portrait.
The Personal File consists primarily of family correspondence, estate and financial records, and household, medical, and travel papers. Contracts and account books pertain to a partnership agreement between Teichmann and his wife Evelyn Goldstein Teichmann. Teichmann's leadership role in his apartment association is also documented.
The Organizations File reflects Teichmann's involvement in professional and cultural institutions including his student and alumni activities with the University of Wisconsin at Madison, his teaching career at Barnard College, his leadership positions in the Dramatists Guild, and his employment by the several Shubert theater companies. It also contains his work for the United States Office of War Information during World War II.
The Writings File consists of articles for magazines and newspapers, books, films, plays, radio programs, short stories, speeches, and television programs. Each genre contains material pertaining to the production and performance of the work. Teichmann's published books consist of his biographies of Henry Fonda, George S. Kaufman, Alice Roosevelt Longworth, and Alexander Woollcott. Each book includes typescripts of interviews with the subjects' colleagues and family members. Among his unpublished books is a work originally focused on John Shubert, The Man In The Blue Serge Suit, but later expanded to include other members of the Shubert family theater empire. Most notable among the plays is Teichmann's collaboration with George S. Kaufman on The Solid Gold Cadillac. The radio section reflects Teichmann's work with programs such as Ford Theatre and Orson Welles' Mercury Theatre on the Air as well as numerous “soap operas.” He also worked for the television networks Columbia Broadcasting System and National Broadcasting Company.
The Miscellany series contains notes and notebooks regarding personal subjects intermingled with professional and creative material. There is also a section pertaining to Milton Shubert's work for the United States Navy Department during World War II.
Related collections in the Library of Congress are the Lucy Kroll Papers in the Manuscript Division and the George S. Kaufman Collection in the Music Division. Additional material can be found in the Howard Teichmann Papers at the State Historical Society of Wisconsin, Madison.
Letters sent and received by Teichmann.
Address books, appointment calendars, awards, biographical information, family correspondence, financial records, household papers, and photographs.
Contracts, correspondence, financial records, and printed matter pertaining to the professional and cultural organizations in which Teichmann participated.
Background information, contracts, correspondence, drafts, financial records, notes, and printed matter relating to Teichmann's articles, books, plays, and radio and television programs.
General notes and photographs. Correspondence, financial records, and printed matter regarding Milton Shubert's work for the United States Navy Department during World War II.
Account book, photographs, posters, sheet music, and a three-dimensional stage design.
The papers of Daniel Carroll of Duddington (1764-1849) span the years 1662-1920, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1791 and 1868. The collection relates principally to the real estate and business interests of Carroll, an influential Washington, D.C., landowner whose property included Duddington Manor on the Anacostia River and much of what was to become Capitol Hill. The papers are organized in the following series: Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Financial Records, Miscellany, an Addition, and Oversize.
The collection deals with the surveying and selling of lots and squares in the new federal city and in Baltimore, Maryland, with lawsuits and the collection of rents, and with Carroll's large holdings in the Baltimore Iron Works and the Hockley Forge. Most of the material dated after Carroll's death in 1849 concerns the settlement of his estate by his daughters, Ann C. Carroll and Maria Carroll Fitzhugh.
Principal correspondents from Daniel Carroll's lifetime include his uncle, Daniel Carroll of Rock Creek, one of the early commissioners of the District of Columbia; Charles Carroll (d. 1820) of Belle Vue; and Charles Carroll (1737-1832) of Carrollton, a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Other correspondents are Richard Brent, William Leigh Brent, Thomas Emory, James Greenleaf, William Alexander Hammond, Christopher Johnson, and John Merryman. Correspondents from the period after Carroll's death include George Appleby, Ann C. Carroll, Richard H. Clarke, John Sterrett Gittings, William Alexander Gordon, William Hickey, James Birseye McPherson, and Thos. E. Waggaman.
Correspondence of various family members.
Letters received and some letters sent.
Family business records including accounts, receipts, correspondence, and related material.
Autograph albums, business records, clippings and pamphlets, land plats, land reference books, lottery tickets, miscellaneous notations, indentures, wills, photograph, report, subpoenas, verses, and annotated wrappers.
Photocopies of a letter and an essay pertaining to signers of the Declaration of Independence.
Atlas, indentures, land plats, correspondence, insurance policy, and wills. Microfilmed as part of Miscellany series.
The papers of Johann Carl Philipp von Krafft (1752-1804) span the years 1750-1926, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period between 1776 and 1790. The collection focuses on Krafft's career as a military officer, surveyor, and draughtsman in Prussia and the British American colonies during the Revolutionary War. The papers include correspondence, a journal, military records, travel notes, and writings. The bulk of the material is written in German with English and French appearing as well. A small number of writings are in Latin, Russian, and Dutch.
The papers contain correspondence between Krafft and various family members, friends, and military figures dealing with subjects ranging from affairs of the heart to promotion of his career. The most significant part of the collection, however, is Krafft's journal which covers the years 1770-1791, with the largest portion chronicling Krafft's years as a mercenary soldier from 1776 to 1784. Entries for seven of these years are preceded by a table of service, which presents month-by-month Krafft's rank, regiment, company, and names of commanding officers. There is also an abstract of the journal which provides additional information regarding Krafft's military service for the British during the American Revolutionary War. A photocopy of an English translation of the journal, published by the New-York Historical Society, is included in the papers.
Krafft's career as a soldier of fortune is further revealed by his military records, including pay accounts, orders, broadsides concerning billeting and public drunkenness, and commissions, two of which were signed by Frederick the Great. Krafft's wanderings in Russia, the Netherlands, and Quebec in pursuit of a satisfactory military commission between 1776 and 1777 are recorded in his travel notes of this period. He evidently received an excellent education and was fluent in German, French, and English, writing both prose and verse in all three languages as well as poems in Latin. His intellectual interests ranged from literature to astronomy and proverbs to riddles. As a trained surveyor, his knowledge of geometry, mathematics, and astronomy contributed to his creation of a perpetual calendar. His interest in philosophy is revealed in his 1779 treatise in Socratic dialogue on the nature of reality.
An Oversize section is composed of military records as well as material from Krafft's journal and a perpetual calendar.
The papers of W. Somerset Maugham (1874-1965) span the years 1897-1966 with the bulk of material dating from 1897 to 1946. The collection consists of a bibliography, correspondence, newspaper clippings, press releases, a program, a speech, and writings. The writings include the manuscript of Maugham's autobiographical novel, Of Human Bondage, and its earlier, unpublished version, "The Artistic Temperament of Stephen Carey." Featured in the correspondence is a letter Maugham wrote to Martha V. Maremont concerning the origin of the title and the development of various characters in Of Human Bondage. There is considerable publicity material in the papers documenting Maugham's presentation of the manuscript to the Library of Congress in 1946.
Also included are installments of the play, For Services Rendered, published in the London Sunday Times in 1932.
The papers of Thomas Hinckley Robbins (1900-1972) span the years 1918-1971, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1920-1962. The collection reflects a career devoted to naval aviation from the 1920s to the 1960s. Featured in the papers are official and personal correspondence, orders for duty, naval aviation log books, biographical information, speeches, and material relating to Robbins's service aboard the minesweeper Sandpiper.
Robbins's official correspondence contains routine information on examinations, appointments, naval personnel, and naval aviation. Of note in the correspondence are memoranda to naval intelligence on the inspections of airplanes by foreign dignitaries, foreign aviation activities, espionage, foreign ships and armaments, and meetings with individuals such as Rachid Montan Pacha, a Syrian leader visiting New York in 1925 to sell jewels. A majority of the personal correspondence is written to and from naval personnel relating to naval aviation, aircraft, aircraft companies, and European politics.
Material relating to the Sandpiper covers the period 1933-1935 when the ship sailed in Alaskan waters and participated in the Aleutian Islands survey expedition of 1935. Robbins's personal operations diary and narratives for this time are supplemented by newspaper articles written about the Sandpiper.
The papers of Cornelia Bryce Pinchot (1881-1960) span the years 1899-1960 with the bulk of the material dating from 1918 to 1947. The papers reflect Pinchot's activities in the suffrage movement, union organizing for women workers, lobbying for legislative protection for working women and children, involvement in the League of Women Voters and the Women's Trade Union League, as wife of the governor of Pennsylvania, and her two campaigns for a Congressional seat. Her papers also contain personal papers, including financial records, correspondence with her husband Gifford Pinchot, medical records such as material documenting her treatments for repeated miscarriages, and papers regarding the Pinchot's home and gardens at "Grey Towers" in Milford, Pennsylvania.
The Pinchot Papers are organized in three parts. Part I, 1918-1947, by far the largest, came to the library with the Gifford Pinchot Papers and was later organized as a separate collection. Part II, 1927-1960, consisting mostly of post-1940s material, was boxed and described largely as received. Part III, 1909-1941, represents the smallest portion of the collection and contains personal and organization material organized alphabetically by topic or type of material.
General and topical correspondence.
Mainly financial papers, garden files, and files from the U.S. Office of Civilian Defense and the Committee for National Morale.
Speeches, speech material, and press releases.
Correspondence, printed matter, photographs, journals, notes, address lists, financial material, reports, book drafts, radio scripts, and architectural and landscape plans.
Correspondence, financial material, address lists, diary of a 1929 trip, medical records, and reports.
The papers of Nathaniel Sisson (1845-1932) span the years 1838-1932, with the bulk of the material dating from 1862 to 1920. The collection includes correspondence, financial records, medals, printed matter, and writings and is arranged alphabetically by type of material or topic followed by miscellany and oversize.
The earliest correspondence, 1862-1865, contains letters between Sisson and his family describing his Civil War experiences and their domestic activities. The post-Civil War correspondence is composed chiefly of letters received by Sisson from his family in Ohio and Iowa. Subjects include the medical profession, teaching, and farming. Sisson’s business ventures and private life are occasionally mentioned.
After his war service, Sisson moved to Maryville, Missouri, where he experimented with several professions such as bridge building, cabinet making, surveying, and teaching before settling on the real estate business. A subject file contains primarily printed matter documenting Sisson’s involvement in these areas. The file also includes material relating to Sisson’s participation in genealogical research, military reunions, national politics, and the Freemasons.
A writings file contains Sisson’s reminiscences of his Civil War experiences. It also includes essays, poetry, and speeches by Sisson and others. A miscellany file comprises military and political badges, road and bridge surveys, and newspaper clippings.
The papers of the Nicholas King family span the years 1792-1987, with the bulk of material dating from 1792 to 1861. The journals, correspondence, notes, genealogies, visas, photographs, and drawings comprising the collection consist primarily of the papers of three members of the King family: Nicholas King (1771-1812), English-born engineer and surveyor of the city of Washington, D.C.; his son-in-law William Wade (1789-1875), United States Army ordnance officer and part owner of a series of steam engine and cannon foundries in Pittsburgh; and his grandson Nicholas King Wade (1823-1899), engineer and foundry owner. The papers are arranged alphabetically by name of family member. A small group of miscellany contains genealogies, photographs, and drawings. Oversize material is housed separately.
The papers of Nicholas King consist largely of a series of journals containing diary entries (some in shorthand), drawings, and treatises on a variety of subjects. The earliest volume, written in 1793 while traveling through Suffolk, East Anglia, and Yorkshire prior to his immigration to the United States, records his observations on agriculture, architecture, oak timber, tithing, and the poor. The second journal, begun in August 1794 when King was a resident of Philadelphia, contains an account of a trip from Philadelphia to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; advice for immigrant settlers and American land speculators; and passing comments on American agriculture, racial attitudes, and Pennsylvania penal reform. A third journal records his work as a surveyor in Washington, D.C, from 1796 to 1799. A board of commissioners responsible for overseeing the construction of federal buildings and the sale of city lots hired King as a surveyor in 1796. Also included are transcribed excerpts from several journals which have since been lost. One of these recounts King's transatlantic crossing in 1793 and his earliest impressions of America. The transcripts include copies of letters from King and his father, Robert King, who was also an engineer and surveyor. The collection contains a small portrait of King, a sketch of St. John's Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C, and several photographs of family portraits.
The papers of William Wade relate primarily to his participation in an inspection tour of European cannon factories sponsored by the War Department in 1840. Included is a letter from Wade to his son Nicholas before his departure, two visas, and a transcribed memorandum by Wade concerning the trip. In a letter dated 1861, Mark A. Cooper of Georgia expressed interest in acquiring a machine used to test the strength of iron. The letter, written eight days after the attack on Fort Sumter, is annotated with Wade's refusal to assist him.
The papers of Nicholas King Wade consist of a series of letters to his sister, Elizabeth Stone Wade, describing his journey from Berlin, Germany, to St. Petersburg, where he had a contract with the Russian government to manufacture military ordnance.
The correspondence of Samuel Freeman Miller (1816-1890) spans the years 1854-1887 and contains Miller's holograph letters to his brother-in-law William Pitt Ballinger, an attorney in Galveston, Texas. Miller comments on a broad range of political and judicial issues, including Abraham Lincoln's election in 1860, Reconstruction and relations between North and South, various judicial appointments, the nomination of John Marshall Harlan to the Supreme Court, Republican Party politics, and Miller's service on the electoral commission appointed by Congress to decide the disputed 1876 presidential election between Rutherford B. Hayes and Samuel J. Tilden. The collection also includes three reels of microfilm reproducing typewritten transcripts of Ballinger's diaries in the Texas Archives at the University of Texas Library.
Miller, who served on the Supreme Court from 1862 until his death in 1890, relates news of the court and the status of various cases pending before it. In a confidential letter to Ballinger in 1866, he reports the Court's five to four ruling in the test oath cases striking down loyalty oaths after the Civil War. Miller briefly describes the reasoning in his dissenting opinion in the cases, yet quickly adds, in deference to Ballinger's circumstance as a former Confederate official, that he is "... not sorry that the result is adverse to my opinion, on your account and generally because I think the requirement unnecessarily harsh at present." The letters also contain news of family members.
The papers of Natacha Rambova (1897-1966) date from the late 1950s and early 1960s and contain typed monographs and notes as well as prints and photographs. Formerly known as Winifred Shaughnessy Hudnut, Rambova married Rudolph Valentino in 1922. The unpublished monographs in these papers reflect Rambova's research in Egyptology and cosmology which was sponsored largely by the Bollingen Foundation. Rambova contributed to a series of publications by the foundation entitled Egyptian Religious Texts and Representations. Illustrations prepared for Rambova's monographs are filed separately. Also included are typed notes pertaining to Greek mythology.
The papers of Sol Myron Linowitz (1913-2005) span the years 1778-1999, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1946-1995. The collection covers virtually every phase of Linowitz's career as an attorney, executive for Xerox Corporation, ambassador to the Organization of American States, co-negotiator of the Panama Canal treaties, and presidential representative to Middle East peace negotiations. The papers are organized in ten series: Diaries, Correspondence File, Government Service, General Office File, Haloid Xerox, Inc., Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, Addition, Classified, and Oversize.
The Diaries are a key component of the papers and provide an account of Linowitz's activities as an attorney, executive for Xerox Corporation, ambassador to the Organization of American States, and consultant and international negotiator in the administration of Jimmy Carter. The most detailed entries recount the period 1974-1981 and reveal Linowitz's increasing influence in national and international politics. After a long career with Xerox Corporation and service as ambassador to the Organization of American States, he joined in 1969 the Washington office of the international law firm Coudert Brothers working closely with public service organizations, corporate leaders, statesmen, and politicians. Recognized for his range of interests and negotiating insight, he moved into Washington's inner circles of national and international politics. The diaries recollect in detail formal and informal talks with leading statesmen and businessmen and include observations on politics, politicians, government, presidential elections and appointments, international relations, and national and international events. Most notable are entries regarding his work as co-negotiator for the Panama Canal treaties and his service as President Jimmy Carter's representative in Middle East peace talks. As a significant member of Carter's administration, his diaries are replete with meetings and discussions with the president, administration officials, State Department personnel, members of Congress, and members of the diplomatic community.
The Correspondence File contains letters received and copies of letters sent and primarily documents Linowitz's public service career after leaving the Xerox Corporation. The letters are generally personal and include correspondents from government, public service, business and industry, and foreign service. Topics include Linowitz's service in the Carter and Lyndon B. Johnson administrations, Latin America, the Middle East, and presidential elections. Linowitz's activities regarding Jewish concerns are revealed in correspondence with religious leaders and other members of the community. His personal recapitulations of formal and informal discussions with Alexander Meigs Haig, Henry Kissinger, Robert S. Strauss, and other prominent individuals are scattered throughout the file and are generally filed under the person's name. In 1975 Linowitz recounted a candid talk with Nelson A. Rockefeller regarding his role as Gerald R. Ford's vice president and other members of that administration. The file also contains letters exchanged with these individuals. Other correspondents include Menachem Begin, Peter G. Bourne, Ellsworth Bunker, Joseph Epstein (1937-), Henry A. Grunwald, Lee Hamilton, Edward Moore Kennedy, David E. Lilienthal, Peter G. Peterson, George Shultz, and Earl Warren.
The Government Service series documents Linowitz's accomplishments as ambassador to the Organization of American States (OAS), co-negotiator of the treaties transferring control of the Panama Canal to Panama, and Jimmy Carter's special representative for Middle East peace negotiations. Linowitz honed his international relations skills guiding the Xerox Corporation into global markets and promoting international development through private and government public service institutions. These activities and others moved President Johnson to name Linowitz ambassador to the OAS and representative to the Alliance for Progress in 1966. Correspondence and State Department memoranda depict his participation with Johnson in the first ever gathering of American hemisphere presidents at Punta del Este, Uruguay, for a Latin American summit conference in 1967. Notable also are Linowitz's letters to Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey (1911-1978) proffering political advice and tactics regarding Humphrey's presidential candidacy in 1968. Other correspondents include Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Galo Plaza, Dean Rusk, and various Latin American government officials.
In 1977-1978, Linowitz and co-negotiator Ellsworth Bunker secured the politically sensitive Panama Canal treaties that set in motion the eventual transfer of control of the canal to Panama. Related material in the Government Service series describes the negotiation process from Linowitz's appointment as co-negotiator to Senate ratification of the treaties. Correspondence and memoranda exchanged with President Carter, administration and State Department officials, members of Congress, and opponents of the treaties outline the issues and negotiation tactics. In the wake of the Camp David agreements, Carter appointed Linowitz in 1979 as his special representative in the Middle East regarding talks on Palestinian autonomy. Correspondence, memoranda, and reports treat this phase of Linowitz's diplomatic career and provide insight into the actions of Carter and White House staff, State Department officials, and representatives of Middle Eastern countries. Especially interesting are Linowitz's reports to Carter regarding the progress of negotiations and memoranda in the general correspondence file depicting the evolving strategies of the negotiators. Memoranda recounting meetings with Menachem Begin and Henry Kissinger are key items in the general correspondence. Transcripts of press conferences and interviews, copies of diaries and personal reflections, articles, and speeches are also significant documents concerning Linowitz's mission.
The General Office File contains correspondence, speeches, articles, reports, organizational records, and related material and is organized in two parts. Part A represents Linowitz's early career in Rochester, New York, as an attorney and executive with Xerox Corporation. Importantly, though, the file demonstrates his commitment to public service through organizations and institutions devoted to local community service, education, and international development. As a successful and grateful beneficiary of the private enterprise system, Linowitz advocated corporate responsibility and counseled businessmen on their obligation to repay their good fortune through public service and community activities. Material related to the International Executive Service Corps, which he cofounded with David Rockefeller as an international service organization for retired executives patterned on the Peace Corps, constitutes a prime expression of this vision. His contributions to international aid through government agencies are documented in material related to the State Department's Advisory Committee on International Organizations and the President's General Advisory Committee on Foreign Assistance Programs. The Rank Xerox file reflects Linowitz's activities as an executive for Xerox and his part in its expansion into the global marketplace through agreements with the Rank Organisation in London. Overseas trips for Xerox during this period are documented in travel files that include notes and observations on journeys to Europe, Israel, and Japan. Linowitz's law practice as well as his numerous local community activities are represented including client files and records of service organizations, educational institutions, clubs, and Jewish associations. His nascent interest in international issues is reflected in material related to memberships in local and national groups affiliated with the United Nations and in the topics addressed on his public affairs television show Court of Public Opinion. A personal file contains correspondence with Xerox president Joseph C. Wilson (1909-1971), material related to a contemplated candidacy for governor of New York, biographical material, and clippings.
Part B of the General Office File chiefly relates to Linowitz's career after he left Xerox in 1966 and documents his expanded activities in public service and as consultant to government, politicians, and corporations. Material related to his membership on the boards of various organizations and corporations demonstrates Linowitz's public service in their behalf. Prominent are records of the Inter-American Dialogue, where he served as founding chairman; Cornell University; Council on Foreign Relations; National Urban Coalition; and Federal City Council in Washington, D.C. Government commissions he headed or assisted include the Commission on United States-Latin American Relations, Presidential Commission on World Hunger, and Special Committee on Campus Tensions. Records of the board of directors of the Pan American Airways Corporation document its acquisition of National Airlines as a domestic carrier and cover the period of the deregulation of the airline industry. Other corporation boards represented include Marine Midland Banks and Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York. Political files reveal Linowitz's advisory role in the presidential campaigns of Jimmy Carter, Bill Clinton, and Edmund S. Muskie. Travel files include his notes and observations on journeys to Africa, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe. A set of files primarily from the 1980s relates to his work with the Coudert Brothers international law firm, where he worked as partner and counsel from 1969 to 1994.
The Haloid Xerox, Inc. series includes correspondence, contracts, agreements, and related material pertaining to Linowitz's work for Haloid Xerox, later renamed the Xerox Corporation, as an attorney for patents and licensing and in executive management. In the late 1940s, Linowitz advised Haloid, a photographic paper supplier, in negotiations to acquire the patent and licensing rights to a new electronic reproduction process devised by Chester Floyd Carlson and later marketed as xerography. The executive management file relates the patent acquisitions from Carlson and his sponsor, Battelle Memorial Institute, and includes correspondence with Carlson and Haloid officials Joseph C. Wilson (1909-1971) and John H. Dessauer. The series also contains a general office file, material relating Linowitz's part in the expansion of Xerox products into foreign markets, and patent and licensing agreements with government and private industry.
The Speeches and Writings File includes various drafts and printed copies of articles, speeches, statements, interviews, reviews, book proposals, and book files grouped in two parts. Part A contains material generated prior to his resignation from Xerox Corporation in 1966. The articles and speeches are filed by topic including antitrust issues, civil rights, education, government, Israel, law, the United Nations, and Xerox. Part B covers the period after his resignation from Xerox and includes a chronological arrangement of articles, interviews, and speeches. Topics include corporate responsibility, education, Latin America, the Middle East, law, the Panama Canal, and urban issues. Part B also includes drafts and other production files associated with the publication in 1985 of Linowitz's memoir, The Making of a Public Man, and an oral history from 1982-1983.
The Miscellany series includes biographical material, clippings, legal files, notes, photographs, and scrapbooks. Files pertaining to Linowitz's legal practice in the early 1940s with Sutherland and Sutherland in Rochester, New York, and his work for the Office of Price Administration in Washington, D.C., during World War II form the largest part of the series. Opinions, briefs, memoranda, transcripts of oral arguments, notes, and background material pertaining to rent control and other issues are included. Photographs relate primarily to his activities in the Johnson and Carter administrations. Scrapbooks with clippings and photographs span most stages of his career including the Organization of American States, the Panama Canal treaties, and Latin America.
An Addition contains material assembled after Linowitz’s death and covers many facets of his career. The bulk consists of speeches and writings by Linowitz, most of which are organized in a series of binders. The earliest binders contain topically organized speeches and articles from 1946 to 1966. Later binders cover the period 1966-1987 in a chronological arrangement. Loose speeches and articles, 1940-1999, are filed at the end. Another significant feature of the addition are files relating to Linowitz’s Washington connections in the mid-1960s. Included are letters from prominent public officials filed in general correspondence; a subject file on the Lyndon B. Johnson administration including copies of letters from the president and his staff; and a separate file on Washington, D.C., containing notes, meeting schedules, and appointments. Other phases of Linowitz’s career are also documented in the series including his oversight of rent control cases for the Office of Price Administration during World War II and his exploration into a possible run for governor in New York in 1966. Also present are memoranda describing meetings and travel (1955-1957, 1966, 1975-1981), notes from a tour of the Middle East hosted by Time, Inc., in 1975, and descriptions of Anwar Sadat’s funeral in 1981. A small personal file contains biographical material, college and high school ephemera, news clippings, photographs, and a eulogy delivered on his mother’s death.
Organized by bound and unbound copies and filed therein chronologically.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Correspondence sent and received, speeches, interviews, photographs, reports, clippings and printed matter.
Correspondence sent and received, speeches and writings, reports, draft copies of treaties, clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence sent and received, speeches and writings, reports, transcripts of press conferences and interviews, clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence sent and received, speeches and writings, organizational records, legal files, reports, notes, travel files, personal files, photographs, clippings, and printed matter reflecting Linowitz's work prior to his appointment as ambassador to the Organization of American States in 1966.
Correspondence sent and received, speeches and writings, organizational records, legal files, reports, notes, telephone logs, travel files, photographs, clippings, and printed matter representing most of Linowitz's career after leaving the Organization of American States in 1969.
Correspondence sent and received, organizational records, contracts, agreements, reports, printed matter, and clippings.
Articles, book proposals, interviews, reviews, speeches, statements, and notes created prior to Linowitz's appointment as ambassador to the Organization of American States in 1966.
Articles, books in various stages of production, book proposals, interviews, reviews, speeches, statements, notes, and an oral history created after Linowitz's appointment as ambassador to the Organization of American States in 1966.
Biographical material, clippings, legal files, photographs, scrapbooks, and memorabilia.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, schedules and itineraries, speeches and writings, notes, legal files, programs, biographical material, photographs, news clippings, and other printed matter complementing the contents of other series and spanning many phases of Linowitz’s career. The bulk of the series consists of file copies and some drafts of speeches, articles, and other writings.
Correspondence, memoranda, and reports.
Broadsides, photographs, a photocopy of a drawing, and scrapbooks.
The records of the Poushkin Society in America span the years 1931-1955. The collection chronicles the society's efforts to promote and celebrate the Russian poet Aleksandr Sergeevich Pushkin. The collection is arranged in four series: General Correspondence, Subject File, Printed Matter, and Index to Boris Godunov.
The General Correspondence consists of incoming and outgoing correspondence relating to society events, publications, and other interests. The Subject File includes material relating to anniversary celebrations by the society, which included celebrations for Pushkin, Mikhail Íuévich Lermontov, and Nikolai Vasil'evich Gogol; bylaws, minutes, and other material relating to the history and organization of the society; and photographs. The printed matter, consisting primarily of newsclippings also includes pamphlets and booklets relating to Pushkin and Russian literature. A Russian language index to Pushkin's Boris Godunov comprises the final series.
Correspondents include Audrey Auinoff, Boris Brasol, Serge Obolensky, N.A. Pushkin, Sergei Rachmaninoff, M. I. Rostovťsev, Igor Ivan Sikorsky, Pitirim Aleksandrovich Sorokin, and George Vernadsky.
Incoming and outgoing correspondence relating to the society.
Bylaws, minutes, photographs, a notebook, and other material relating to anniversary celebrations by the society and the history and organization of the society.
Newsclippings, pamphlets, booklets, and other material relating to Pushkin and Russian literature.
An index to Pushkin's Boris Godunov.
The papers of Arthur Huntington Gleason (1878-1923) span the years 1863-1931, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1900-1923. Consisting of family correspondence, general correspondence, writings file, subject file, and miscellany including clippings and printed matter, the papers chart Gleason's career from his graduation from Yale University to his death from spinal meningitis in 1923. Letters and related material document his early years as an editor with Cosmopolitan, The Survey, and Collier's Weekly, but the major part of the collection relates to his years in Europe, 1914-1920. Gleason and his wife Helen Hayes were among a group of youthful American writers who volunteered to perform humanitarian service on behalf of the Allies during the first years of World War I, and it is this phase and the subsequent years of reconstruction and political turmoil that are treated most prominently in the collection. By the time Gleason returned to the United States in 1920, he had become a student of the British labor movement as well as a veteran observer of combat, and his growing socialist convictions led him to a career in research and public relations work for various labor organizations.
The papers in this collection focus chiefly on World War I. As a journalist and ambulance worker for the Red Cross in Belgium, Gleason became a proponent of the Allied cause. In addition to reporting on Allied soldiers and Belgium's defeated populace, he relayed stories of German atrocities back to the United States and served as an intermediary for English writers seeking to influence public opinion in this country in favor of the English position. Manuscripts of two of these writers, G. K. Chesterton and James Bryce, are among the articles and interview transcripts which Gleason sent to the United States from England for publication, and he retained them in his papers. Also in the collection are exchanges with Geoffrey B. Butler, J. J. Jusserand, the French ambassador to Washington, and Baron Eustace Percy of Newcastle on issues such as the Irish question, American isolationism, and the political and social ramifications of immigration to the United States. The impact of ethnicity on the American character, a frequent postwar theme of Gleason's, was a topic which he addressed in a series of articles on the status of Jews in America published by Hearst's International. Pertinent to this series are letters he received in 1922-1923 from Felix Frankfurter, Ludwig Lewisohn, Walter Lippmann, Julian W. Mack, and Stephen Samuel Wise.
Following his return to the United States in 1920, Gleason worked on behalf of the Bureau of Industrial Research and John Brophy of the United Mine Workers. Papers relevant to this aspect of his life are contained in the Correspondence series, in the Subject File under Bureau of Industrial Research, and the Writings File. Among the individuals who appear either as correspondents or in biographical sketches are John Blankenhorn, Bruce Bliven, John Brophy, Robert W. Bruère, Herbert David Croly, Andrew Furuseth, Frank Hodges, Vida Dutton Scudder, Robert Smillie, and Norman Thomas. After 1922 Gleason turned to writing about the new civilization he believed was emerging in the Southwest and to the varieties of religious experience he saw in California. He also underwent a personal crisis as a writer which is documented in private reflections he titled "The Darker Side." These and similar holograph notes are contained in the Writings File, as are transcripts of interviews he conducted with Percy Stickney Grant, Charles Proteus Steinmetz, Ili︠a︡ L'vovich Tolstoĭ, Charles Richard Van Hise, and others.
The family correspondence, although a relatively small part of the collection, is a source of biographical data. Letters Gleason sent his mother in 1906 include critical comments on Jane Addams's personality, and a file for 1915 contains descriptions of Gleason in action as a medic and reporter on the Western Front. Also in the family correspondence are letters sent and received by Helen Hayes Gleason during the war and a few exchanges which Gleason sent or wrote during boyhood. Letters of condolence to Helen Hayes Gleason after her husband's death are located in the general correspondence as are papers generated during her compilation of The Book of Arthur Gleason (1929). The family correspondence includes a letter of 1863 sent by a deacon of Henry Ward Beecher's Plymouth Congregational Church in Brooklyn to Gleason's maternal grandmother requesting that she accept an offer to fill Beecher's pulpit temporarily in his absence.
Correspondents include Roger N. Baldwin, Edward William Bok, Geoffrey G. Butler, Edward C. Carter, Sir Winston Churchill, Fannia M. Cohn, Joe Cook, Eugene V. Debs, George Eastman, Walter Prichard Eaton, Richard Henry Edwards, Joseph Fels, Felix Frankfurter, Lewis Gannett, Armand Hammer, Norman Hapgood, Alfred Harcourt, Sidney Hillman, J. J. Jusserand, Paul Underwood Kellogg, Thomas Kirkup, Edward B. Krehbiel, Harry Wellington Laidler, Harold Joseph Laski, Ludwig Lewisohn, Walter Lippmann, Jack London, A. Lawrence Lowell, Julian W. Mack, Paul Elmer More, William Morrow, James Oppenheim, C. H. Parkhurst, Baron Eustace Percy of Newcastle, William Lyon Phelps, John S. Phillips, Charles Mulford Robinson, Edward Alsworth Ross, May Sinclair, William Andrew Spalding, Mark Sullivan, William Simon U'Ren, Lillian D. Wald, Andrew Dickson White, William Winter, and Stephen Samuel Wise.
Letters sent by Gleason to his mother, letters to and from other relatives, and correspondence written and received by his wife, Helen Hayes Gleason.
Official and personal correspondence written and received by Gleason, including holograph drafts of letters composed by him. Also letters to and from Helen Hayes Gleason concerning her husband's death and the publication of a volume memorializing his writings and achievements.
Typescripts of articles, poems, and interviews by Gleason as well as notes, reflections, and drafts of articles. Arranged alphabetically by title.
Minutes, reports, notes, memoranda, contracts, and testimonials.
Newspaper and periodical clippings, pamphlets, maps, calling cards, postcards, programs, and miscellaneous material.
The papers of Manton Malone Marble (1834-1917) span the years 1838-1916 with the bulk of the material dating from 1864-1898. The collection consists of bound correspondence and related matter, including letters, telegrams, articles, and drafts of Democratic Party policy statements organized in three series: General Correspondence, Miscellany, and Addition.
Most of the collection relates to Marble’s career as editor and owner of the New York World and to his role in New York state and national Democratic Party politics in the period between the beginning of the Civil War and the close of the nineteenth century. There are drafts of statements and papers on the presidential election of 1876, a draft of the “Peace Plank” of the Democratic platform in 1864, articles on bimetallism and the Silver Question, papers relating to Marble’s role as President Grover Cleveland’s representative in Europe in 1885 to consult with European governments on bimetallism, and documents relating to the shutdown of the New York World in 1864 by the Abraham Lincoln administration.
The Miscellany series includes drafts of articles from the New York World, material relating to the election of 1876, bimetallism, the Manhattan Club, and the national Democratic party in the second half of the nineteenth century. The Addition contains one calling card.
Correspondents include Samuel Greene Arnold, Samuel L. M. Barlow, Thomas F. Bayard, August Belmont, W. H. Bogart, Calvert Comstock, Samuel Sullivan Cox, David G. Croly, George Ticknor Curtis, Charles A. Dana, James R. Doolittle, John Fiske, William Henry Hurlbert, Reverdy Johnson, Michael C. Kerr, Joseph Medill, Fitz-John Porter, John Finley Rathbone, Horatio Seymour, Richard Henry Stoddard, Samuel J. Tilden, Clement L. Vallandigham, Henry Watterson, and Horace White.
Correspondence and related material in bound volumes.
Correspondence, drafts of articles, financial records, newspaper clippings, photographs, proofs, and miscellaneous material.
Calling card.
The papers of Maxwell Anderson (1888-1959) span the years 1920-1989, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1920-1955. The collection consists of letters to and from Harold Monro and copies of various plays and screenplays by Anderson, including scripts which he submitted for copyright to the Library of Congress Copyright Office. Among the drafts, corrected galleys, and annotated copies are scripts for “Anne of the Thousand Days,” “Joan of Lorraine,” “The Eve of St. Mark,” and “What Price Glory.”
The papers of William Edward Riley (1897-1970) span the years 1941-1948 and consist of correspondence, memoranda, operation plans, reports, speeches and speech material, maps, photographs, notes, printed matter, and other material. The papers relate to Riley's World War II service on the staff of Admiral William Frederick Halsey, commander of South Pacific Area and commander in chief of the U.S. Navy 3rd Fleet; invasions of the Philippines and Ulithi (Micronesia); and U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Navy demobilization efforts after the war. Also included are copies of speeches by James Forrestal, William Frederick Halsey, Thomas Cassin Kinkaid, William D. Leahy, and Kenneth Claiborne Royall.
The papers of the Francis Lewis Cardozo Family, a prominent African-American family in South Carolina and Washington, D.C., span the years 1864-1968, with the bulk of the material dated between 1868 and 1932. The papers include correspondence, genealogical material, certificates, commissions, degrees, notes, and a typescript of a novel. Francis Lewis Cardozo (1836-1903) was born in Charleston, South Carolina, and served as secretary of state and state treasurer. Cardozo received a law degree from the University of South Carolina in 1876 and was admitted to practice law before the state supreme court in the same year.
The papers include correspondence of Francis Lewis Cardozo, Jr., W. Warrick Cardozo, William Cardozo, and Margaret Cardozo Holmes. Much of the correspondence relates to the ancestry of the African-American and Jewish family. Of particular interest is a typed manuscript of a novel entitled "Folks' Ways," written by Francis Lewis Cardozo, Jr., under the pseudonym F. Elsee, which is based on his father's life. Also in the papers are commissions, degrees, and certificates related to Francis Lewis Cardozo and genealogical material relating to the Cardozo family.
The papers of Ludwig Jekels (1867-1954) span the years 1892-1985, with the bulk of material dating from 1930 to 1952. The collection includes correspondence, lectures, subject files, and writings in German and English. Among the correspondents are August Aichhorn, Princess Marie Bonaparte, K. R. Eissler, Thomas Mann, Otto Rank, and Gregory Zilboorg. The lecture and writings files feature Jekels's work on dreams, sleep, and wakefulness, his collection of dream data from patients, and the response to one of his writings by Paul Federn. An autograph book dated 8 May 1936 contains the signatures of Thomas Mann and others who attend Mann's lecture "Freud und die Zukunft" at a banquet honoring Sigmund Freud on his eightieth birthday. The collection also includes original manuscripts and letters by writer Herbert Silberer, 1919-1922.
The London Newsletters Collection spans the years 1665-1685 and consists of volumes of letters written from the offices of the English ministry at Whitehall Palace chiefly to Sir William Scott, 5th Laird of Harden (died 1707). The letters, many with the signature “These,” are from several different hands, including one at the beginning of the first volume that was written by Thomas St. Serf.
The authors of the letters discussed such matters as royal travel and itinerary, military operations, diplomatic meetings, religious movements, shipping and commercial agreements and restrictions, and social events occurring in London. One volume contains several handbills relating to Parliamentary acts and chronicles actions in Parliament. Another aspect of the letters concerns sources of information and communication in London in the seventeenth century, and the authors frequently noted from whom particular rumors originated.
The records of the American Psychological Association (APA) span the years 1917-1986, with the bulk of the records concentrated in the period 1940-1980. The records consist of correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes of meetings, agenda, ballots, financial records, drafts of books, articles, and lectures, testimonies, printed and near printed matter, and miscellaneous material. The collection is organized into eight series representing the structure and function of the organization, including Council of Representatives, Board of Directors, Administration, Boards and Committees, Divisions, Journals and Publications, and Affiliated Organizations, as well as a Miscellany file. The records are replete with gaps. A lack of consistency in the retirement of APA records may have contributed to the absence of material regarding certain periods or subjects. Many divisions and committees did not retire their records to the Library of Congress, preferring the Akron University Psychological Archives in Akron, Ohio. The records of the APA held by that institution should be consulted where gaps exist here.
The governing bodies of the APA – the Council of Representatives and Board of Directors – are represented in these records by separate series dating between the end of World War II and the beginning of the 1980s. Consisting largely of correspondence, memoranda, reports, and meeting data, these series treat business and organizational issues and relate to the professional direction of the association.
More extensive in scope and chronology is the Administration file. Until 1955, much of the material in the records of the APA was maintained in the office files of the executive secretary of the association. Dating primarily from the 1930s, the Executive Officers File in the Administration series reflects the managerial decisions of the organization's chief officers and documents its main activities. Featured in the personal records of various executives – from Donald Gildersleeve Paterson and Willard Clifford Olson in the 1930s and 1940s to Arthur H. Brayfield and Kenneth B. Little in the 1960s and 1970s – are the concerns and issues that defined their tenure as leaders. Themes of significance include APA-government relations, psychological testing, forensic information, loyalty investigations, the behavioral sciences, scientific exchanges, science and education, and the Peace Corps. Other important issues include legislation on aging, television projects, legal testimony, White House conferences, international cooperation, and ongoing publication efforts.
Also in the Administration series are Departmental Offices Files relating to the principal subdivisions in the association, including the Educational Affairs Office, Professional Affairs Office, Programs and Planning Office, Scientific Affairs Office, and Women's Program. In subject matter, they document the thrust of the APA's post-1950s operations from the minutia of daily activities to the practical applications of its programs and policies. As an example, within the files of the Professional Affairs Office are studies concerning abortion, contraception, population issues, and social attitudes, all under the term "family planning."
The Boards and Committees series offers further documentation of APA's outreach in developing and promoting psychology as a profession and field of study. Principal groups represented are boards relating to professional affairs, scientific affairs, social and ethical responsibility, education and training, and publication. Featured as well are the files of temporary bodies or continuing committees such as boards on ethical standards in psychological research, on psychology in governmental and public affairs, on revision of test standards, and on the APA's association with the guilds of related disciplines.
Topics highlighted in the Boards and Committees series reflect the core concerns of the organization, especially after 1960. Prominent are women's issues, equal opportunity for minorities, drug use, attitudes concerning sexual orientation, Vietnam War veterans, post-doctoral education, sex-role stereotyping, and social justice. Particularly extensive are files relating to the ethical treatment of human subjects during research. Also significant are testing and training questions and problems. Health issues are prominent throughout the collection, from licensing considerations and insurance matters to community health centers and the relationship between psychology and psychiatry.
The remaining files of the APA consist of a large Divisions series, followed by Journals and Publications, Affiliated Organizations, and a small Miscellany. Eclectic and incomplete, the Divisions series is organized by number of division, but the numbering is inconsistent and not all divisions are represented in the records. The files for Divisions 12, 14, and 17 ("Clinical," "Industrial" and "Counseling Psychology") are the most complete.
The records in the Journals and Publications series are also fragmentary, with the stronger portion beginning in the 1970s. Included are editorial and administrative matter related to books, abstracts, monographs, and journals published by the organization.
The Affiliated Organizations series consists of files relating to the American Association for Applied Psychology, the Conference of State Psychological Associations, and the Virginia Psychological Association, which beginning in the 1940s affiliated with the APA.
Among the prominent or frequent correspondents in the collection are George Albee, Arthur H. Brayfield, Arthur Centor, Isador Chein, Kenneth Bancroft Clark, Dorothy Clendenen, John Gordon Darley, Nicholas Hobbs, Erasmus Leonard Hoch, John McVee Hunt, Thelma Hunt, Kenneth B. Little, Joseph B. Margolin, Wilbert James McKeachie, John H. McMillan, Willard Clifford Olson, Fillmore H. Sanford, Leona Elizabeth Tyler, Dael Lee Wolfle, Robert Mearns Yerkes, and Joan S. Zaro.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, ballots, budgetary and financial matters, reports, rules of council, and recommendations.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, agendas, ballots, newspaper clippings, minutes of meetings, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, administrative material, and subject files of the administrative officers of the APA Central Office.
Correspondence, memoranda, budgetary and financial matter, records relating to projects and programs, and various other administrative and informational data.
Correspondence, reports, minutes of meetings, budgetary matters, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, reports, agenda, surveys, graphs, charts, lists, proceedings, questionnaires, auditing data and other financial matter, drafts of publications, printed and near-print matter, and miscellaneous administrative and informational material.
Correspondence, memoranda, agenda, minutes of meetings, bylaws, reports, reviews, surveys, lists, applications, budget material, statements, financial material, notebooks, articles, handbooks, legal material, studies, papers, dissertations, surveys, and miscellaneous administration and informational data.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, surveys, drafts of articles, reviews, lists, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, agenda, abstracts, minutes of meetings, lists, legislation, notices, ballots, bills, expense reports, newsletters, bylaws, certificates, programs, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes of meetings, reports, agenda, transmittal sheets, receipts, forms, surveys, notes, ballots, printed matter, fragmentary material, notices, speeches and articles, testing material, and miscellaneous data.
The papers of Abram Peter Turner Elder (circa 1890-circa 1930) span the years 1890-1916, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1903-1916, and include correspondence, illustrated material, photographs, biographical files, and miscellaneous matter. The collection is divided into three series: Correspondence, Biographical Case Files, and Miscellany.
Little is known of Elder's life or career outside the professional associations and productions illuminated by his papers, other than that he was involved in creating and marketing specialty publications. In 1896 Elder and a relative published a compendium of religious art, apparently marketed by private subscriptions and published by a family corporation in Chicago. In 1899 they reissued the book through a worldwide publishing firm. There is no information, however, in the Elder Papers concerning these ventures. In 1902 Charles H. Grosvenor began compiling The Book of the Presidents, with Biographical Sketches, a customized biographical directory for sale by private subscription. The National Biographical Society, a commercial firm of which Elder was an official, became involved in Grosvenor's work, eventually assuming control of most or all aspects of its publication, which is noted in correspondence in the Elder Papers and is graphically represented in four-color engravings of title sheets, sample page proofs, and other publishing matter.
Between approximately 1903 and 1912, Elder assisted in the preparation of another customized biographical directory, marketed via subscription and published under the auspices of his firm, entitled The National Memorial of the United States. Correspondence and related records in Elder's papers provide an in-depth view of the efforts to publish the National Memorial, with extensive detail concerning contracts, quality of work which printing firms promised or submitted, internal personnel matters, efforts to identify a subscriber audience and increase sales, and outreach, including an award-winning exhibit in the Panama-Pacific International Exposition of 1915-1916 in San Francisco. Most of the correspondence regarding the National Memorial was generated by several officials of the National Biographical Society, including Elder, but was not signed and is impossible or difficult to identify by author. Prominent among the correspondents are society officials Charles H. Grosvenor, Robert E. Doan, Lucy S. Bahnsen, R. E. Montague, and Richard R. McMahon.
The Biographical Case Files contain correspondence, background information, clippings, and other printed matter, as well as photographs and biographical entries regarding the individuals profiled in the National Memorial. Many of the people featured were prominent local, state, and national politicians, capitalists, and philanthropists, including Charles F. Chickering, W. W. Corcoran, Moody Currier, H. A. Du Pont, Mary Baker Eddy, Isaac E. Emerson, Charles W. Fairbanks, Marshall Field, Julius Fleischmann, Ulysses S. Grant II, Solomon R. Guggenheim, William Guggenheim, Edward Everett Hale, Marcus Alonzo Hanna, David N. Hershey, Christian Heurich, Henry Edwards Huntington, Charles Kellogg, Henry Miles Knowles, Daniel Scott Lamont, Craige Lippincott, Nicholas Longworth, Cyrus Hall McCormick, Darius O. Mills, J. Pierpont Morgan, Levi P. Morton, Gottlieb Muhlhauser, Francis G. Newlands, George Mortimer Pullman, and Matthew Stanley Quay.
A small number of records document the organization, function, and mission of the National Biographical Society, including statements of intent, bylaws, articles of incorporation, and sample stockholder certificates. A very small amount of correspondence concerns the maintenance of Elmhyrst, the Elder family summer estate in Middletown, Rhode Island, and is virtually the only reference in this collection to Elder's nonprofessional life.
Letters to and from Elder, Charles H. Grosvenor, Lucy S. Bahnsen, and Richard R. McMahon regarding efforts to publish specialty biographical directories and to promote the National Biographical Society's business.
Correspondence, background information, photographs, press articles, and other materials regarding the individuals profiled in The National Memorial of the United States.
Legal and organizational records of the National Biographical Society, including bylaws and articles of incorporation, marketing advice given to society sales agents, subscriber lists, and sample pages from The Book of the Presidents and The National Memorial of the United States.
Oversize page proofs, title pages, illustrated matter, and other items described according to the series, folder, and boxes from which they were removed.
The papers of Reinhold Niebuhr (1892-1971) span the years 1907-1997, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period from the 1930s through the 1980s. The collection portrays the range of Niebuhr's work and his influence in twentieth-century theology, politics, and society. Included are correspondence, articles, sermons, reviews, lectures, typescripts of books, biographical material, printed matter, and miscellaneous items. The original collection is arranged in the following series: Correspondence, Speech, Article, and Book File, Miscellany, June Bingham Correspondence, Reinhold Niebuhr Correspondence Collected by June Bingham, June Bingham Book File, and William Scarlett Correspondence. Five separate additions to Niebuhr's papers have been organized and appended to the original collection. These additions are listed and described in the order of their receipt in the Manuscript Division.
Correspondence with a wide array of theologians, political leaders, academicians, literary figures, and diverse community leaders and organizations comprises a substantial portion of the original collection and Additions I and II. Focusing chiefly on Niebuhr's theological interests and work, much of the material relates his efforts to apply religion and ethical standards to social and political problems. Two such examples, represented in depth, are the papers concerning the Delta Cooperative Farm Project and the Committee on Economic and Racial Justice. Some of the prominent or frequent correspondents include W. H. Auden, Jacques Barzun, John C. Bennett, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Tom C. Clark, Henry Sloane Coffin, James Bryant Conant, Sherwood Eddy, Dwight D. Eisenhower, T. S. Eliot, Felix Frankfurter, Hubert H. Humphrey, James A. Pike, Samuel D. Press, William Scarlett, Arthur M. Schlesinger (1917-2007), Adlai E. Stevenson (1900-1965), Paul Tillich, Henry P. Van Dusen, and Willem Adolph Visser't Hooft. Also included is a sizable amount of correspondence with such organizations as Americans for Democratic Action, Commission on Freedom of the Press, National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America, Union for Democratic Action, and the World Council of Churches.
There are numerous outlines of sermons delivered by Niebuhr and typescripts of articles ranging in subject matter from national and international political affairs to labor and race relations, theology, and economics. There are also typescripts and related correspondence dealing with book reviews Niebuhr wrote for the New York Times, Saturday Review, New Republic, and other publications. Typescripts of three of Niebuhr's books, Man's Nature and His Communities, Pious and Secular America, and The Self and the Dramas of History, are also included.
The collection also contains outlines of class lectures, engagement calendars, bibliographies of Niebuhr's published works, and miscellaneous oversize materials.
Papers presented to the Library by June Bingham relate to her research conducted while preparing a biography of Niebuhr, Courage to Change: An Introduction to the Life and Thought of Reinhold Niebuhr, and include her correspondence as well as assorted correspondence by Niebuhr that she collected.
Addition III is composed primarily of correspondence, subject files, and writings collected and maintained by Ursula Niebuhr. Although the papers include a few letters to and from Niebuhr during the last years of his life, the material consists chiefly of Ursula Niebuhr's correspondence with academic colleagues, researchers, and family friends. Also of interest are letters from her friends and colleagues in England describing conditions there during World War II. Subject files contain research material collected by the Niebuhrs, biographical clippings, information on colleagues, and material related to researchers studying Niebuhr, including a group of letters exchanged with Richard Fox and others relating to his 1985 book, Reinhold Niebuhr: A Biography. The writings file includes articles, addresses, notes, reviews and other miscellaneous writings by Niebuhr. Prominent or frequent correspondents include John Barnes, John C. Bennett, Isaiah Berlin, Jimmy Carter, Paul D. Clasper, Isobel Cripps, Sir Richard Stafford Cripps, T. S. Eliot, Felix Frankfurter, J. King Gordon, Ruth Anderson Gordon, Ronald O. Hall, Will Herberg, Hubert H. Humphrey, Franklin H. Littell, Daniel P. Moynihan, Alan Paton, D. B. Robertson, Arthur M. Schlesinger (1917-2007), Ronald H. Stone, Hugh Van Husen, Geraldine Van Husen, and E. L. Woodward.
Addition IV also includes a significant group of family correspondence and professional files of Ursula Niebuhr. Letters exchanged by Reinhold and Ursula Niebuhr during the 1930s comprise the bulk of the family correspondence and provide insight into Niebuhr's political and social activities. Highlights in the correspondence include Niebuhr's descriptions of activities relating to his Gifford lectures at the University of Edinburgh (1939), his travels to Germany with the U.S. Commission on Cultural Affairs in Occupied Territories (1946), and other trips to Europe during the late 1940s. Also included are letters Niebuhr received from his brother, H. Richard Niebuhr, during the 1930s. In 1991, Ursula Niebuhr edited and published much of this correspondence in Remembering Reinhold Niebuhr ([San Francisco]: Harper San Francisco). Ursula Niebuhr's professional files include correspondence, articles, essays, newspapers columns, speeches, lectures, prayers, and sermon outlines. The correspondence relates to theological and personal matters and includes a scattering of letters by her husband. Significant or frequent correspondents include Tony Benn, Isobel Cripps, Sam H. Franklin, George F. Kennan, Teddy Kollek, Archibald MacLeish, Norman Mailer, Martin E. Marty, George S. McGovern, Hans J. Morgenthau, Oliver W. Sacks, Arthur M. Schlesinger (1917-2007), and Margaret Stansgate.
Addition V complements the material in Additions III and IV and is composed of correspondence, subject files, and writings. Significant correspondents include David Amiran, Ruth Amiran, Jonathan Bingham, June Bingham, Teddy Kollek, and Ronald H. Stone. The subject file details Ursula Niebuhr's work with the Jerusalem Committee and study of Christian liturgy. The writings file contains articles by both Reinhold and Ursula Niebuhr. The writings file also contains an outline entitled "The Significance of Luther's Dfisnce [Defiance] of the Pope" that Reinhold Niebuhr was working on at the time of his death.
Letters sent and received.
Speeches, sermons, articles, book reviews, and book manuscripts.
Biographical material, class lectures, printed matter, photographs, and other miscellaneous items or files.
Letters sent and received.
Niebuhr correspondence with persons other than Bingham.
Papers relating to Bingham's biography of Niebuhr, Courage to Change.
Letters from Niebuhr to Scarlett and related and attached material.
Correspondence, printed matter, and related background material.
Articles, books, sermons, reviews, speeches and related materials.
Certificates and photograph.
Letters received and a few copies of letters sent.
Articles, book chapters, reviews, addresses, sermons, prayers, and lecture notes.
Biographical material, clippings, notes, photographs, and printed matter.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, clippings, and printed material.
Articles, addresses, reviews, and miscellaneous items.
Correspondence between Reinhold and Ursula Niebuhr and other family members.
Correspondence, articles, essays, lectures, speeches, sermons, notes, and administrative papers regarding her teaching career at Barnard College.
Correspondence, subject files, articles, essays, lectures, and reviews.
The papers of William Marion Jardine (1879-1955) span the years 1908-1955 and consist of correspondence, articles, speeches, lectures, notes, and scrapbooks of clippings relating chiefly to his career as secretary of agriculture, minister to Egypt, and president of the University of Wichita. The greatest concentration of material consits of four volumes of congratulatory messages dated 1925 and a substantial amount of material for the 1929-1933 period. The scrapbooks are most complete for the years 1925-1929. The correspondence relates to politics, economic problems, and especially with various aspects of agriculture. The majority of Jardine's speeches and articles concern agricultural topics. Among the correspondents are Milton Stover Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover, Alfred M. Landon, Andrew W. Mellon, Henry L. Stimson, and Harry Hines Woodring.
The papers of William Edmund Curtis (1855-1923) span the years 1885-1923, with the bulk of the material dated 1893-1896. The papers include family and general correspondence, financial papers, memoranda, notes, reports, code books, invitations, a biographical sketch, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
The collection relates chiefly to Curtis's service as assistant secretary of the United States Treasury and covers financial topics relating to silver certificates, gold reserves, deficit spending, loans, custom receipts, and inflation. The papers also include letters from Curtis to his mother, Mary Ann Scovill Curtis, chronicling his day-to-day activities.
Correspondents include Alvey A. Adee, John Griffin Carlisle, F. Marion Crawford, Charles S. Fairchild, Hickson W. Field, Richard Watson Gilder, Sir Edward Goschen, Sir Hugh Henry Gough, Sir Alan Johnstone, C. N. Jordan, Joseph S. McCoy, Maurice L. Muhleman, William Alfred Peffer, J. G. Rosengarten, James Speyer, and James Stillman.
The papers of Wilhelm Fliess (1858-1928) span the years 1894-1929 and include correspondence, writings, a reminiscence, and clippings, all of which are in German. A large portion of the papers concerns a plagiarism controversy surrounding the publication of Otto Weininger’s Geschlect und Charakter in 1903. Weininger’s book contained theories on bisexuality similar to those developed by Fliess. Fliess alleged that Sigmund Freud had discussed his theories with Hermann Swoboda who then related them to Weininger. Included is a draft and published text of Fliess’s pamphlet on the subject, In Eigener Sache. Accompanying the pamphlet are letters to and from Fliess and a clipping file concerning Fliess’s allegations.
Also featured in the papers are letters dated 1894-1898 from Joseph Breuer, a letter from Oscar Rie dated 1895, an undated draft of a writing by Fliess entitled “Die Entdeckung der Dauernden Doppelgeschlechtigkeit: Eine geschichtliche Darstellung,” and reminiscences by Fliess’s son, Conrad Fliess, contained in a letter to Richard Pfennig.
Part I
Part I of the papers of Joseph Edward Davies (1876-1958) spans the years 1860-1957, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1936-1955. It covers American-Soviet relations and foreign affairs in general from 1936 to 1957 and is arranged in nine series: Family and Personal File, Chronological File, Memoranda, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Newspaper Diary, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
Davies was ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1936 to 1938, and the papers are especially rich on this period and on his subsequent role as an envoy or representative for Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman during World War II. Of particular importance are Davies's diaries and journals and the manuscripts of two unpublished books, “In the Days of Their Power and Glory” and “Missions for Peace.” Although the papers do not contain the manuscript of Mission to Moscow, his controversial 1941 book about his years in the USSR, many documents and papers used in preparing it are included. Material for a sequel to that book, which covers a 1943 trip to Moscow during World War II by Davies, is also in the collection.
Prominent correspondents include Bernard M. Baruch, Baron Max Aitken Beaverbrook, James F. Byrnes, Sir Winston Churchill, Homer S. Cummings, Josephus Daniels, Stephen T. Early, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Edward Frederick Lindley Wood, Earl of Halifax, Felix Frankfurter, Joseph C. Grew, Andrei Andreevich Gromyko, Loy W. Henderson, Harry L. Hopkins, Cordell Hull, Arthur Krock, Oskar Lange, George C. Marshall, Marvin Hunter McIntyre, Vyacheslav Mikhaylovich Molotov, Henry Morgenthau, N. V. Novicov, Key Pittman, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Samuel I. Rosenman, Edward R. Stettinius, Harry S. Truman, Millard E. Tydings, Andrey Yanuaryevich Vyshinsky, Fred M. Vinson, Harry Morris Warner, and Sumner Welles.
Part II
Part II of the Joseph Edward Davies Papers spans the years 1893-1958, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1912 and 1958. It is arranged in seven series: Family and Personal File, Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Press File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Family and Personal File contains Davies's appointment books, biographical and genealogical information, correspondence between family members, estate management records, financial records, and medical records. Household papers document personal possessions and real estate. Of note are papers relating to the Sea Cloud, the private yacht of Davies and his wife, Marjorie Post, which they donated for military service during World War II. The Davies's social life is documented by club memberships, dinner lists, invitations to garden parties, and travel material.
The Correspondence series contains letters to and from Davies's friends and colleagues, particularly in the political arena. Subjects include Woodrow Wilson's 1912 presidential campaign, Davies's work on the Federal Trade Commission, his diplomatic career, and role as presidential advisor. Correspondents include Sir Winston Churchill, Stephen T. Early, Anthony Eden, Edward, Duke of Windsor, Albert Einstein, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Felix Frankfurter, Andrei Andreevich Gromyko, Warren G. Harding, W. Averell Harriman, J. Edgar Hoover, Harry L. Hopkins, Cordell Hull, Harold L. Ickes, Henry Robinson Luce, Alfred Lunt, Edward R. Murrow, Drew Pearson, Sam Rayburn, Eddie Rickenbacker, Eleanor Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Adlai E. Stevenson, Rafael Leónidas Trujillo Molina, Harry S. Truman, Henry A. Wallace, Sumner Welles, Wendell L. Willkie, and Woodrow Wilson.
The Subject File covers topics such as Belgium, economic and foreign relations, presidential and senatorial election campaigns, post-World War II conditions, and universal military training. The Speeches and Writings File contains correspondence, drafts, and related material pertaining to Davies's articles, books, speeches, and other writings. It includes material regarding Mission to Moscow, a film based on Davies's book. The Press File includes bulletins, newsletters, newspaper clippings, press releases, and radio broadcasts.
The Miscellany series consists of notes, photographs, and printed matter. It also includes several scrapbooks relating to Davies's family and career.
Diary, notebook, correspondence, campaign material, financial matter, legal records, and Masonic papers.
Diaries, journals, correspondence, and related material.
Official and unofficial memoranda.
Memoranda, newspaper clippings, reports, and printed matter.
Drafts of articles, books, and speeches with related research material, correspondence, printed matter, photographs, contracts, and miscellany.
Newspaper clippings.
Articles, biographical notes, dinner lists, inventories, memoranda, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, and photostatic copies.
Correspondence, legal documents, blue prints, and printed matter relating to Fisherman's Island, Florida.
Campaign poster, photographs, and maps.
Appointment books, biographical and genealogical information, correspondence, estate records, financial records, household papers, medical records, social engagements, and university alumni material.
Incoming and copies of outgoing letters.
Chiefly printed matter on topics relevant to Davies's career, such as Belgium, election campaigns, and universal military training.
Correspondence, notes, research material, and galleys relating to Davies's articles, books, and speeches.
Bulletins, newsletters, newspaper clippings, newspaper diary, press releases, and radio broadcasts.
Notes, photographs, printed matter, and scrapbooks.
Book galley, campaign posters, and scrapbook.
The papers of Newton Diehl Baker (1871-1937) span the years 1896-1962, with the bulk concentrated in the period 1916-1937. The collection consists of correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, speeches and articles, newspaper articles, and printed material relating primarily to Baker's post-World War I activities as the head of several business firms and of organizations devoted to education, law and jurisprudence, and philanthropy, relief, and other types of human services. The firms and organizations include the American Judicature Society, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, Cleveland Chamber of Commerce, Cleveland Trust Company, National Consumer's League, Phi Gamma Delta, and Woodrow Wilson Foundation. Included is material relating to Baker's post as secretary of war in Woodrow Wilson's cabinet during World War I.
Correspondents include the American Institute of Pacific Relations, John H. Clarke, Josephus Daniels, Norman H. Davis, Thomas Goddard Frothingham, Norman Hapgood, Ralph A. Hayes, Thomas W. Lamont, Esther Everett Lape, Walter Lippmann, Charles A. Mooney, George Foster Peabody, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Louis B. Selzer, James Thomson Shotwell, Samuel Ungerleider, George W. Wickersham, Edith Bolling Galt Wilson, and Howell Wright.
Letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received and minutes and reports relating to the Supreme War Council and to shipping during World War I.
Letters and memoranda sent and received with attached and related reports, printed matter, and other material.
Correspondence, notes, drafts, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to speeches and writings by Baker.
Miscellaneous topical files.
Correspondence between Baker and Ralph Hayes, subject files, speeches and writings, and printed matter.
Bound volumes of copies of personal letters sent, 1896-1916, and of letters sent as secretary of war, 1916-1917.
Letters to D. C. Westenhaver and Paul Westenhaver.
The papers of Armand Hammer (1898-1990) date from circa 1508 to 1989 and include items gathered for an exhibition honoring Hammer which featured highlights from his archival collection. The items were on display at the Library of Congress in January and February of 1989. The correspondence documents Hammer's activities as citizen diplomat, humanitarian, and art collector from 1922 through 1988 and includes letters from presidents Jimmy Carter, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and Franklin D. Roosevelt; first ladies Lady Bird Johnson and Eleanor Roosevelt; Soviet officials I͡U. V. Andropov, Leonid Il'ich Brezhnev, K. U. Chernenko, Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev, and Vladmir Il'ich Lenin; and other officials and dignitaries such as Menachem Begin, J. Paul Getty, Anwar Sadat, Jonas Salk, and Margaret Thatcher. Another item is a facsimile edition of the Codex Hammer, a notebook of Leonardo da Vinci, circa 1508. A photograph album entitled "Dr. Armand Hammer Presents His Papers to the Library of Congress" shows scenes from the opening of the exhibit in 1989.
The papers of William Johnson (1771-1834) in the Charles E. Feinberg Collection consist of a series of articles concerning Johnson published in the Michigan Law Review by Abraham J. Levin, 1944-1945. The collection includes holograph manuscripts, typescripts, printed copies, and miscellaneous items documenting the writing and editing of Levin's articles. A two-volume set of Johnson's Sketches of the Life and Correspondence of Nathanael Greene (Charleston, S.C.: [Printed by A. E. Miller], 1822) has been transferred to the Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library of Congress.
Papers related to Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert Du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette (1757-1834) span the years 1776 to 1934 and include correspondence, legal documents, clippings, broadsides, an orderly book, photographs, and other papers.
The collection includes material concerning Lafayette's military service in Virginia and Canada, his tour of the United States in 1824-1825, his land in Florida, and his views on such topics as the slave trade and the French government. Also included is material relating to the centennial observance of his death and Lafayette's genealogy.
Correspondents include Thomas Clarkson, George Washington Parke Custis, Mordecai Gist, George Graham, Catherine Littlefield Greene, Abiel Holmes, Charles King, Henry Laurens, Antoine Vaudoyer, Marinus Willett, and William Woodford.
The papers of Charity Edna Adams Earley (1918-2002) span the years 1928-2002, with the bulk of the material dating from 1942 to 2002. They are arranged into categories of general correspondence, speeches and writings, subject files, and oversize material. A large portion of the papers relates to Earley’s experiences during World War II as the first African-American commissioned officer in the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps, which became the Woman’s Army Corps (WAC), and the highest ranking African-American woman to serve overseas during the war.
Earley’s memoir, One Woman’s Army: A Black Officer Remembers the WAC, recounts her experiences as a woman and as an African American in the segregated military at Fort Des Moines, Iowa, and as commanding officer of the 6888th Central Postal Battalion stationed in Birmingham, England, and Rouen and Paris, France. Additional information on her activities during World War II are contained in military records, press clippings, and speeches.
Included in the subject files are materials relating to organizations and programs which Charity Adams Earley served as a board member and events at which she was honored for her accomplishments.
The papers of Elwood Richard Quesada (1904-1993) span the years 1927-1960 and consist of correspondence, memoranda, reports, drawings, speeches, charts, Quesada’s personnel file, and other material.
The bulk of the collection consists of material compiled by units under the IX Fighter Command and IX Tactical Air Command at the end of World War II to reflect the contributions of each unit to the war effort. The correspondence includes letters written and received by Quesada during his deployment to North Africa and Europe, 1943-1945. Other correspondence relates to the unification of the armed forces, the B-36 investigation, and Quesada's deployment to the Pacific in 1951 as commander of Joint Task Force-3 during a series of atomic tests on the Pacific atoll of Eniwetok.
Included in the collection is Quesada's personnel "201" file; documents relating to operations and training during World War II; speeches and statements by Quesada, including speeches given while he was administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration; and items relating to the United States Air Force Board of Review for Tactical Operations.
The papers of Samuel Adams (1722-1803) span the years 1635-1826 and consist of reproductions of originals in the New York Public Library documenting Adams’s political career in Massachusetts and some family matters. Included is correspondence, speeches, petitions, committee records, public documents relating to Massachusetts, and pseudonymous articles submitted to Boston newspapers and attributed to Samuel Adams. A considerable amount of material does not pertain directly to Adams, either as writer or recipient.
Notable correspondents or individuals represented in the collection include John Adams, John Burgoyne, Christopher Gadsden, Horatio Gates, Elbridge Gerry, Nathanael Greene, Thomas Jefferson, Arthur Lee, Richard Henry Lee, Thomas Paine, and James Warren.
The records of the Presbytery of Washington City span the years 1823-1950 and include records of two predecessor organizations, the Presbytery of the District of Columbia, 1823-1870, and the Presbytery of the Potomac, 1858-1870. The two presbyteries combined in 1870 to form the Presbytery of Washington City, a precursor of the present presbytery, the National Capital Presbytery.
These records consist of the proceedings of the presbyteries. Churches documented in Maryland include congregations in Bethesda, Bladensburg, Darnestown, First Constitutional Church in Baltimore, Granite, Lisbon, Mount Airy, Poolesville, Quarries, Ridge (Carroll County), Rockville, and the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Virginia churches documented include those in Alexandria, Falls Church, and Lewinsville. Several Presbyterian churches in the District of Columbia are also documented.
The proceedings record the response of the presbyteries to the Civil War, World War I, the influenza epidemic of 1918-1919, the Great Depression, and World War II. An historical volume at the end of the collection summarizes the events and trends reflected by the proceedings.
The papers of John Angel James Creswell (1828-1891) span the years 1819-1885, with the bulk of the material dated 1862-1885. A government official, supporter of Abraham Lincoln, and abolitionist, Creswell changed his name from John Andrew Jackson Creswell to John Angel James Creswell after being elected to the House of Representatives as a Republican in 1861 in order to disassociate himself from Democrat Andrew Jackson. His papers consist of general correspondence, letterbooks, account books, and scrapbooks.
The general correspondence, chiefly 1862-1865, consists mainly of bound volumes of letters to Creswell concerning his law practice, business, Maryland politics, patronage, his duties as adjutant general of Maryland, the military draft during the Civil War, and the Maryland Constitutional Convention of 1867. The letterbooks, 1882-1885, pertain to American interests presented to the United States Court of Commissioners of Alabama Claims.
Correspondents include Thomas King Carroll, George William Childs, Henry Winter Davis, Levi Duncan, Ulysses S. Grant, Joseph R. Hawley, Thomas Holliday Hicks, Reverdy Johnson, Edwin D. Morgan, Whitelaw Reid, George Alfred Townsend, and E. B. Washburne.
The papers of George Henry Dern (1872-1936) span the period 1933-1936 and include correspondence, speeches, radio addresses, statements, memoranda, photographs, and other material dealing with Dern’s daily activities as secretary of war under Franklin D. Roosevelt.
The files relate chiefly to Dern’s inspection trips, particularly those to the Mississippi River and the St. Lawrence Seaway; formal and ceremonial occasions, such as a governor’s conference in California in 1933; and trips to Panama and the Philippines.
The papers of Robert Mills (1781-1855), first American-born professional architect, and an early proponent of Greek revival in American architecture, consist of correspondence, bills, receipts, cost estimates, plans, drawings, sketches, proposals, reports, and notebooks. Dating from 1804 to 1862, the collection relates chiefly to his design of public buildings. Only a few letters of a personal nature are present, and are for the period 1804-1808. Other correspondence consists principally of letters, 1830-1850, addressed to Mills as Architect of the Capitol and of copies and drafts of letters by him. The subject matter in both cases is the design, construction, expansion, alteration, and furnishing of public buildings in Washington, such as the Patent Office, Post Office, Treasury, Capitol, and Washington Monument.
Two of Mills's notebooks, or memoranda books, are similarly devoted to matters relating to his career as architect and engineer. The first, dated 1816, contains notes, small drawings and sketches, plans for furnaces, formulae, calculations, and diary-like comments on his activities, largely in connection with commissions in Richmond and Baltimore, including Baltimore's Washington Monument. The second notebook, undated, but with some entries spanning 1835-1840, has notes and sketches of a like character, but pertaining to the public buildings and public works of Washington, and to the Washington Monument.
Also in the papers are a few reports and proposals in Mills's hand, a folder of plans and drawings, miscellaneous bills, receipts, and cost estimates, and printed matter.
The papers of Joseph Arthur Moore (1879-1937) span the years 1910-1927 and consist of bound and unbound correspondence and printed matter relating to Moore’s relationship with publisher William Randolph Hearst.
The correspondence spans the years 1915-1927 and consists principally of letters, telegrams, and memoranda between Moore and Hearst concerning newspaper operations and policy, local and national politics, and Hearst’s magazine and motion picture interests. It also includes correspondence with Arthur Brisbane, Robert W. Chambers, Millicent Hearst, and Ray Long. The printed matter consists of articles on Hearst and other miscellaneous items.
The papers of John Noel Deisch (1892-1978) span the years 1910-1937 and consist of a typescript with holographic notes and corrections of Deisch's monograph, The Navigation of Interplanetary Space: A Study of the Question (Problem) of Flights to Other Worlds, articles by Deisch, correspondence, biographical material, and miscellaneous material relating to Deisch's patents and awards. The focus is on the typescript of Navigation of Interplanetary Space, an early scientific treatise in English on space travel. Although Deisch received some training in biology, chemistry, and mechanical engineering and worked for most of his life as a patent draftsman, he seems to have been essentially self taught in the field of astronautics.
Series 4, the Addition to the Arthur Papers, spans the period 1846-1960 and is arranged in four subseries: Correspondence, Financial Papers, Scrapbooks, and Miscellany.
The largest portion of Series 4 appears to be part of the correspondence file of the New York Republican State Committee dating from May to November 1880, a period in which Arthur served as committee chairman, and beginning in June, as vice-presidential candidate. There are letters and telegrams to Arthur and other members of the committee as well as draft replies from Arthur, apparently in the handwriting of his secretary, James C. Reed.
Other correspondence includes letters from Arthur to his son, Chester Alan Arthur (1864-1937); letters from Robert Graham Dun, George Bliss, and Roscoe Conkling to Arthur; and letters of resignation submitted by members of James A. Garfield's cabinet after his assassination in 1881.
Also in Series 4 are an account book for the Arthur’s presidential years kept by the steward of the Executive Mansion, a scrapbook on Arthur's service as collector of customs for the Port of New York (1871-1877), and correspondence between Owen A. Sheffield and E. T. I. Thygeson in 1960 that illuminates Arthur's relationship with his close friend Robert Graham Dun and discusses the disposition of Arthur's personal papers.
Series 5, Addition II, was donated by Ron Michie of Scotland, U.K. in 2015. It is not part of the microfilm edition of the papers. This addition consists of a single item: a letter written by President Arthur in 1882 to restauranteur, John Sutherland, thanking him for the "excellent haunch of Caribou." Sutherland, originally from Scotland, operated a popular eating house in New York City that had been patronized by Arthur.
Letters received, some letters sent, related original manuscripts, and a few photocopies of original manuscripts.
Photocopies and a few typed copies of letters exchanged by Arthur and Robert Graham Dun and of other letters and documents concerning Arthur.
Typed copies of certain letters written by, to, or concerning President Arthur in the papers of other persons in the Library of Congress.
Letter from Arthur to John Sutherland, New York City restauranteur, thanking him for the "haunch of Caribou."
Additions to the papers of James Monroe (1758-1831) are organized as Series 4, Addenda. They include correspondence, photocopies and typescripts of correspondence, property and financial records, and miscellaneous documents dated from 1778 to 1831 and arranged in subseries by the year the addition was processed.
The 1979-1985 addition is arranged in four parts. Part A includes original letters from Monroe to William Benton, James Bowdoin, Henry Dearborn, Lord Thomas Erskine, Richard H. Henderson, David Humphreys, Thomas Law, John Francis Mercer, Edmund Randolph, Spencer Roane, and others. A letter from William Wirt is the only letter written to Monroe in this portion. Part B contains photocopies of correspondence, a diary, and miscellaneous documents. The bulk of the photocopied correspondence consists of negative copies of manuscripts owned by the United States Military Academy at West Point. Part D, Miscellany, includes index cards that, in conjunction with a State Department pamphlet, form a calendar to the Monroe papers in the collection of Mary Digges Lee Gouverneur.
The 1996 addition includes a letter to Andrew Jackson and property and financial notes arranged by type of material.
The 2014 addition consists of a pardon for Nancy Swann, an African American woman, who had been convicted of petty larceny and fined and imprisoned in the District of Columbia. She had been in the Washington jail over twelve months because she was unable to pay the fine. The pardon is signed by President James Monroe and Secretary of State John Quincy Adams. Two microfilms of original manuscripts owned by Laurence Gouverneur Hoes have also been placed in the 2014 addition.
Letters of Monroe and retained copies and drafts of letters written by Monroe.
Correspondence and related manuscripts owned by Laurence G. Hoes and reproduced with his permission.
Letterbooks, 1803-1806, containing copies of diplomatic correspondence during the years Monroe served as minister to England, and an account book containing memoranda and accounts during his mission to France, 1794-1796. The center portion of the account book was used for personal accounts, Oct. 1801-Nov. 1802.
Correspondence, photocopies and typescripts of correspondence, presidential pardon, property and financial records, and miscellaneous documents.
Land deed and presidential pardon
The papers of John Wills Greenslade (1880-1950) span the years 1847-1961, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1895-1952. The collection contains correspondence, writings, memoranda, printed matter, photographs, scrapbooks, and other material documenting Greenslade's career as a naval officer from the Spanish-American War through World War II, notably during the North Sea mine barrage, 1917-1918; as chief of staff, Battleships Division, 1929-1930; commander, Submarine Force, 1932-1934; as senior member of the President's Board to Select Base Sites in British Possessions, 1940-1941; and as commander of the Western fleet from 1942 to 1944. The papers are arranged into the following series: Diaries, Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Diaries contain originals and copies of letters from Greenslade to his mother, Nell Wills Greenslade, and sister, Sophia J. Greenslade, from the United States Naval Academy and subsequent voyages, including duty in the Philippines aboard the gunboat Concord, 1895-1900; the log of the cruiser Chicago, 1899-1901, the gunboat Princeton, and others, 1901-1904; and diaries of the cruise of the collier Vulcan in 1914; personal and private diary from the mine layer Housatonic, 1918; and notes from his trip to Baku aboard the destroyer Cole, 1919-1920. Further material on the Housatonic is in the Subject File under North Sea mine barrage and in a photograph album in the Miscellany.
Correspondence includes administrative and general correspondence as well as letters of congratulation and sympathy. Correspondents include W. A. Bostwick, A. S. Halstead, Frederick J. ("Fritz") Horne, Royal E. Ingersoll, Ernest Joseph King, Frank Knox, William D. Leahy, Richard H. Leigh, Chester W. Nimitz, John F. Slavich, Joseph K. Taussig, J. Frank Taylor, and Earl Warren. Also included are letters from his son, John F. Greenslade, also a naval officer, written primarily between 1923 and 1936.
The Speeches and Writings series contains speeches and addresses on naval questions, command issues, and world affairs, with related correspondence, delivered between 1927 and 1948, articles on naval matters written between 1931 and 1944 for various publications, and theses and papers written at the Naval War College between 1925 and 1928.
The Subject File includes correspondence, dispatches, and memoranda which document Greenslade's tenure as chief officer of a commission to locate naval and air base sites in British possessions in 1940 and 1941. Files for each location include memoranda, charts, and aerial photographs. Correspondents in these files include William H. Beck, Stanley Truman Brooks, Edward, Duke of Windsor, Philip Henry Kerr, marquis of Lothian, Gordon J. Lethem, and Herbert Pott.
The Subject File also includes material related to the North Sea mine barrage and Greenslade's command of the mine layer Housatonic between 1918 and 1919. His personal and private diary from the Housatonic is found in the Diaries series. Other files include memoranda, correspondence, cables, and printed matter relative to naval operations, submarine force command issues, and the cruise of the collier Vulcan, which dealt with a dispute about the German ship Waltraute and payment for its cargo of coal in 1914-1915. Topics also include the Pacific Coast Joint Committee for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair, the Naval Shore Establishment Board, the United States Naval Academy, and the Naval War College, which Greenslade headed between 1926 and 1928.
The Subject File contains correspondence with John Reber concerning the "Reber Plan" for development of the San Francisco Bay area, Greenslade's résumé of service, correspondence and memoranda concerning Greenslade's duty status and disability retirement, and honors and decorations of both Greenslade and his son, John F. Greenslade. Other material includes a map and newspaper from Veracruz, Mexico, 1856-1957, typescripts of naval history documents, and correspondence relating to the donation of the Panton-Innerarity Papers, Florida history documents originally belonging to Greenslade's mother, to the Florida Historical Society.
The Miscellany includes photograph albums documenting official naval activities, specifically cruises of the Housatonic, cruiser Galveston, mine layer Shawmut, battleship Maryland, and others, the selection of base sites in British possessions, Greenslade's visit to the Kaiser Shipyards in Richmond, California, the Naval Proving Ground in Indian Head, Maryland, and the dedication of two ships by his third wife, Alma Greenslade. Three photograph albums, dated 1896-1933, including personal and family photographs, and a scrapbook of Greenslade's travel on the airship Hindenburg in 1936 have been transferred to the Prints and Photographs Division.
The Miscellany also includes assorted printed matter in the form of scrapbooks for the years 1895-1952, clippings about Greenslade, invitations, programs, proclamations, and a reading file of articles, monographs, and periodicals on military and foreign affairs.
Diaries, including some family correspondence and logs kept at the United States Naval Academy and on numerous vessels.
General and family correspondence.
Speeches and writings.
Correspondence, memoranda, dispatches, printed matter, maps and charts, and photographs.
Clippings and other printed matter, photograph albums, scrapbooks, and a reading file of articles and other publications.
Oversize material consisting of photograph albums and periodicals.
The papers of the Adee family span the years 1824-1966 and consist of awards, catalogs, correspondence, journals, a medical degree, newspaper clippings, poetry, speeches, and writings. The papers are chiefly those of Augustus Alvey Adee (1802-1844), United States Navy surgeon, and his sons David Graham Adee (1837-1901), author and lawyer, and Alvey A. Adee (1842-1924), assistant secretary of state and chief of the Diplomatic Bureau, Department of State.
Material of Augustus Alvey Adee includes correspondence to his wife, Amelia Kinnaird (Graham) Adee, written primarily while he was serving as fleet surgeon on the Potomac (frigate) along the coast of South America, 1840-1841; journals while he was a surgeon on the Vincennes (Sloop of war) during a cruise in the Pacific, 1835-1838; notes on the Adee family of Scotland; marriage and baptism records of the Adee and Graham families; and catalogs of Adee's book and seashell collections.
The David Graham Adee material consists mostly of published writings and poetry and also includes material relating to the Civil War service of Major General George Lucas Hartsuff and his brother, Albert Hartsuff, assistant surgeon in the Union army.
Papers of Alvey A. Adee include correspondence and newspaper clippings concerning his diplomatic career, a journal of an extensive bicycling trip he made throughout Europe in 1867, and manuscript copies of his writings and poetry. Also in the collection are a book of poems and notes on the Adee and Stansbury families by Lucy A. K. Adee and a master's thesis written by George S. Hunsberger on the diplomatic career of Alvey A. Adee, with references to the Boxer Rebellion.
The papers of William Henry Purnell Blandy (1890-1954) span the years 1913-1977 and consist of correspondence, clippings, speeches, reports, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous biographical material. The focus is on the World War II years when Blandy headed the Naval Bureau of Ordnance and on his direction in 1946 of Operation Crossroads, the atomic tests at Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands.
The papers of Jacob Gerhard Koch span the years 1783-1941 with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1783-1839. They consist of correspondence, letterbooks, diary, account books, ledgers, inventories, indexes, receipts, memoirs of Charles Nicholas Buck published in 1941, and miscellaneous documents.
The collection relates chiefly to Koch’s business dealings as a merchant and marine insurance broker in Amsterdam, 1787-1790, Alexandria, Virginia, 1790-1792, and Philadelphia, 1792-1817, and reflects his varied business dealings in North America, Europe, and Latin America. Much of the collection is in Dutch, although Koch also wrote in English and French. The diary documents a trip by Koch to Paris, 1817-1818, and reflects Parisian social life as well as financial transactions. Additional material in the collection refers to the liquidation of Koch’s estate following his death in 1830.
The papers of James Houston Henderson (1878-1935) span the years 1913-1920 and contain correspondence, employment records, biographical notes, and photographs. Henderson was employed by the Isthmian Canal Commission in 1913 as a rodman and later chief of the party which surveyed the Panama Canal. He also oversaw construction of roads and bridges for the Panama Railroad in 1914 and for the Panama Canal in 1915. The papers consist chiefly of correspondence to his wife, Lula Ross Henderson, that detail his work with the construction of the Panama Canal and personal family matters. The correspondence is augmented with photographs of the canal construction as well as records outlining Henderson's employment history. Included in the papers are letters of recommendation from C. A. McIlvain of the Panama Canal and George W. Goethals of the Isthmian Canal Commission and a biographical outline compiled by Henderson's daughter, Frances Henderson Carter. After his tenure with the construction of the Panama Canal, Henderson was employed as a surveyor and civil engineer for several oil companies in Texas and Oklahoma.
The papers of William Howard Taft III (7 Aug. 1915-1991) span the years 1915-1953 and consist of correspondence primarily between Taft and his parents, Robert A. Taft and Martha Wheaton Bowers Taft, especially during his school years at the Taft School in Watertown, Connecticut, at Yale University, and as a graduate student at Princeton University. Also included are three letters from Horace D. Taft and one letter of congratulations from William H. Taft to his son, Robert A. Taft, upon the birth of William Howard Taft III. In these papers, Robert and Martha Taft's son was called William Howard Taft II during the 1930s but by 1947 was addressed as William Howard Taft III.
The papers of Joseph Benson Foraker (1846-1917) span the years 1884-1916 and consist of correspondence documenting his career as a judge, governor, and United States senator from Ohio.
The Foraker Papers include volumes of his correspondence to and from Marcus Alonzo Hanna, Theodore Roosevelt, John Sherman, and William H. Taft printed by the Foraker family. Also in the collection is a single volume of original correspondence with other politicians and notables. The papers detail the politics of the day and infighting within the Republican party.
The records of the International Council of Women (ICW) span the years 1931-1957. The ICW, founded in Washington, D.C., in 1888 and now headquartered in Paris, is comprised of various women’s organizations.
The records of the International Council of Women in the Library of Congress focus on its activities in three areas during the years prior to World War II. They include correspondence, minutes of meetings, reports, and publications concerning the ICW’s involvement in two pioneer conferences on educational films held at the International Institute of Educational Cinematography of the League of Nations, in 1931 and 1934. Also included is material relating to the Conference of International Non-Governmental Organizations, 1948-1954, and its involvement in the work of the Peace and Disarmament Committee of the Women’s International Organisations.
The papers of William H. Conkling (1858-1939) span the years 1864-1976, with the bulk of the papers dated 1927-1939. Conkling, longtime postal official in Springfield, Illinois, was an early airmail enthusiast who established his city as a stop on one of the first cross-country contract airmail routes. The route was flown by Charles A. Lindbergh until 1927, when he quit to prepare for his historic New York-to-Paris flight. During this flight, Lindbergh carried aboard his aircraft, the Spirit of St. Louis, a philatelic cover which he mailed to Conkling from Paris. In addition to this cover, Conkling’s papers contain correspondence with Lindbergh; publications, speeches, and writings concerning Lindbergh’s Paris flight and airmail service to Springfield; and photographs of Lindbergh loading his plane with mail at Springfield’s aerodrome and as its special guest of honor.
The papers of Henry Ware Lawton (1843-1899) span the years 1849-1930, with the bulk of the material dating from 1886 to 1902. The collection includes correspondence, military papers, a map, photographs, a copy of a journal of Esther Voorhees Hasson, 1899, a copy of a diary of Leonard Wood, 1886, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
The correspondence relates primarily to Lawton’s army career and contains many letters from Lawton to his wife, Mary Lawton, describing his campaign against the Chiricahua band of Apache that resulted in the capture of Geronimo and Naiche (also known as Natchez) in 1886. Other topics include Lawton's life in the field in Cuba during the Spanish-American War, and the campaign on Luzon in the Philippines that led to his death. There is little correspondence reflecting his Civil War service or his many Indian campaigns before 1886. Included is a group of letters written to his wife after 1900 by Dean C. Worcester describing the Philippine Commission’s struggle and adjustment in governing the Philippine Islands. Also of interest is a copy of Esther Voorhees Hasson's journal from 1899 describing her experiences aboard the United States Army Hospital Ship Relief. The diary of Leonard Wood, who was selected by General Nelson A. Miles to be the medical officer on Captain Lawton’s command, describes the expedition against the Apaches in the Southwest.
The remainder of the collection is biographical in nature and enlarges on those aspects of Lawton’s life covered by the correspondence.
The papers of Ruth Mack Brunswick (1897-1946) span the years 1921-1943, with the bulk of material dating from 1926 to 1938. The collection, written in English and German, documents Brunswick’s contributions to psychoanalytic theory expanding the work of her mentor, Sigmund Freud. Featured in the papers are Brunswick’s notes and writings related to her analysis of Sergius Pankejeff, a former analysand of Sigmund Freud and the subject of Freud’s “Wolf Man” case study. In addition to Brunswick’s own notes are notes and writings by Pankejeff including an extensive file of notes recording his dreams. Writings by Brunswick contained in the collection include “A Supplement to ‘History of an Infantile Neurosis,’” which explores her analysis of Pankejeff between 1926 and 1927, and numerous drafts of her 1940 article “The Preoedipal Phase of the Libido Development.” Brunswick first outlined her theories of a developmental phase preceding the Oedipal complex in an untitled work written in 1930. The collection includes a typescript of this early work annotated by Freud.
Correspondence includes letters from members of the Freud family including Sigmund Freud’s wife and daughter, Martha Freud and Anna Freud, letters from psychiatrist Ives Hendrick commenting on Brunswick’s pre-Oedipal article, and two letters from Sergius Pankejeff.
The papers of Marie Paneth (1895-1986) span the years 1938-1968 and include correspondence, a diary, reports, notes, writings, and children’s artwork. The collection documents Paneth’s therapeutic use of art in working with children who suffered traumatic experiences. Featured in the collection are writings based on her work with children during the bombardment of London in 1941-1942 and her postwar work with children who survived German concentration camps. Material in the collection is written in English and German.
The bulk of the collection consists of Paneth’s nonfiction and fiction writing. Included are fragments of drafts and reviews of her book, Branch Street. The book recounts her experiences as an art instructor in an air raid shelter in a poor section of London and explores the emotional lives of her pupils through their artwork. Paneth’s original reports outlining her work in the shelter are located in the subject file. Also included in the collection is an unpublished book-length manuscript entitled “Rock the Cradle” based on her subsequent work with children who survived internment in German concentration camps. The children arrived in England in 1945 and were housed in a former war workers’ hostel on Lake Windermere. Most of the children were over the age of fifteen. The largest number were born in Poland; others were from Czechoslovakia, Germany, and Hungary. Paneth’s manuscript relates stories told by the children about their experiences in concentration camps, their adjustment to life in the British reception camp, and the ways artwork provided a nonverbal outlet for their emotional trauma. A few examples of the children’s artwork is found in the subject file.
Other writings in the collection concern Paneth’s theories on the link between visual impressions expressed through drawing and the sensation and memory of eye movement. Also included are several works of fiction including short stories drawn from Paneth’s experiences as a doctor’s wife living in Java and Sumatra during the interwar years. An autobiographical novel entitled “Falschung,” written in English and German, recounts her childhood in Vienna, Austria, her art studies with Franz Čižek, and her early married life in the Dutch East Indies.
Paneth’s correspondence largely concerns her writing projects, most notably Branch Street. Also included are numerous letters to and from psychoanalyst Heinz Hartmann. A diary, spanning the years 1950-1955, documents Paneth’s early years in New York City following her immigration to the United States.
The papers of Mary French Sheldon (1847-1936) span the years 1885-1938. The collection consists of correspondence, writings, lectures, notes, clippings, an address book, drawings, awards, menus, books, photographs, passports, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous material primarily concerning Sheldon’s interest in Africa, particularly the Belgian Congo. Also included is correspondence relating to her travels and lectures; fictional writings; translations of various works, including Salammbo by Gustave Flaubert; an unpublished work relating to the Congo; drawings by Shelton; and photographs of various subjects, especially Africa. Correspondents include Henry Morton Stanley, Albert I, King of the Belgians, and several of Albert's cabinet ministers.
The papers of John Spencer Bassett (1867-1928) span the years 1770-1978, with the bulk of the material dating from 1894 to 1928. The collection documents Bassett's teaching careers at Trinity College (later Duke University) in North Carolina and at Smith College in Massachusetts; his research and writings, including his seminal biography of Andrew Jackson and sometimes controversial writings on race relations; and his secretaryship of the American Historical Association. The papers are arranged in eight series: Diaries and Journals, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Collected Historical Manuscripts, Subject File, Lectures and Speeches, Research and Writings, and Oversize.
Diaries and journals kept by Bassett date between 1905 and 1927. Bassett was an inconsistent diarist who frequently picked up and dropped the practice of recording his daily activities. For many years, he maintained what he called a "literary record" in which he charted the daily progress of his research and writing. During other periods, he kept a more traditional diary in which he described conversations, interviews, meetings, colleagues, and national events, often at great length. He began the diary in the wake of what became known as the "Bassett Affair." In 1903, Bassett published "Stirring Up the Fires of Race Antipathy" in the South Atlantic Quarterly, a journal he founded while teaching at Trinity College. The article and its contention that Booker T. Washington was the greatest southerner apart from Robert E. Lee born in the past hundred years touched off a storm of controversy led chiefly by Josephus Daniels, editor of the Raleigh News and Observer. One of the first entries in Bassett's 1905 diary records his decision to resign as editor of the South Atlantic Quarterly. A later entry provides a detailed account of his meeting with Theodore Roosevelt, who agreed to speak on behalf of academic freedom at a stop in Durham, North Carolina, during his southern tour in 1905.
The Family Correspondence series contains lengthy correspondence between Bassett and his wife, Jessie Lewellin Bassett, written on an almost daily basis during academic breaks when Bassett taught summer school, researched, and attended American Historical Association meetings, and during Jessie Bassett's European travels. Apart from discussing family matters, Bassett's letters relate events and developments connected with his research, writing, and teaching. The series also includes correspondence between the Bassetts and their children, Richard H. Bassett and Margaret Byrd Bassett. Much of the correspondence between Richard Bassett and his parents occurred while he was a student at Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, 1914-1915, and while he studied art in Europe.
The General Correspondence spans the length of Bassett's professional career. His early correspondence, dating from 1894 to 1906, consists largely of incoming correspondence. Much of it concerns Bassett's early research on North Carolina topics, such as the Regulator movement, slavery, and the antislavery movement, and includes letters from Hinton Rowan Helper and Daniel R. Goodloe. Letters from historian Herbert Baxter Adams reveal his ongoing mentorship after Bassett completed his doctoral work at Johns Hopkins University. A significant portion of Bassett's early correspondence concerns Trinity College. Bassett, who had been considered for Trinity's presidency in 1894, promoted scholarship at Trinity through his founding of the South Atlantic Quarterly in 1901 and his efforts to develop the library's book and manuscript holdings. The "Bassett Affair" is discussed in some of these letters.
Bassett's correspondence reveals his interest in southern race relations, politics, and educational reform. Correspondence with southern colleagues continued following Bassett's departure from the South in 1906. Over time, however, Bassett's focus on southern issues lessened and a greater percentage of his later correspondence concerns his subsequent research and writing, in particular his work on Andrew Jackson, and his administrative responsibilities with the American Historical Association and Smith College, his interest and involvement in national politics, and his support of the League of Nations. Prominent correspondents in the General Correspondence series include Charles McLean Andrews, Kemp P. Battle, William Kenneth Boyd, George Washington Cable, John Franklin Crowell, Josephus Daniels, William Edward Dodd, Robert L. Flowers, Albert Bushnell Hart, J. Franklin Jameson, John C. Kilgo, Edwin Mims, Walter Hines Page, Ulrich Bonnell Phillips, William Peterfield Trent, and Woodrow Wilson.
The papers also include a collection of historical manuscripts either purchased by Bassett or given to him by students and friends. While some of these were collected largely for their autographs, many have greater informational value. Among the more significant collections of papers is an exchange of letters between governors Benjamin Williams of North Carolina, Archibald Roane of Tennessee, and William Charles Coles Claiborne of the Mississippi Territory in 1802. These concern the extradition of Stockley Donelson and William Tyrrell, both implicated in western land frauds. The series also contains papers of artist Ralph E. W. Earl, who married Jane Caffery, a niece of Andrew Jackson, in 1818. Earl, who became known as "portrait painter to the king," enjoyed a close relationship with Jackson. He resided at the White House during Jackson's presidency and died at the Hermitage in Tennessee in 1837. Bassett also acquired papers of Henry Watson, a lawyer, banker, and planter who left his native Connecticut in the 1830s and settled in Alabama. Watson's diary, written between 1830 and 1831, and his correspondence, spanning the years 1830-1871, contain numerous references to southern life, economic conditions, politics, and sectionalism. The Watson family papers also include correspondence from Watson's grandfather to his father while the latter was trying to establish himself as a merchant in New York City between 1817 and 1820. Bassett collected various literary collections such as the papers of Sidney Woollett, Layton W. Crippen, and the publishing firm of Stone and Kimball. An alphabetical list of prominent correspondents in this portion of the papers is appended to the register.
The Subject File documents Bassett's professional associations, political activities, and, to a lesser extent, his teaching career. The major portion of the series pertains to Bassett's duties as secretary of the American Historical Association from 1919 to 1928. Files relating to the organization include correspondence, committee and executive council minutes and reports, and financial statements. Another sizeable group of material concerns Bassett's chairmanship of a Democratic National Committee advisory group during the 1920 presidential campaign. The group, charged with devising general strategy for the James M. Cox-Franklin D. Roosevelt campaign, focused most of its efforts on increasing public support for the League of Nations. Bassett sought to influence public opinion by soliciting and publishing articles written by prominent individuals in support of the League. The Subject File also includes newspaper clippings pertaining to Bassett's activities at Trinity College and correspondence, minutes, and reports relating to his teaching and administrative duties at Smith College. Miscellaneous material includes condolence letters on Bassett's death, notebooks, and publishing contracts.
Bassett's lecture files include complete drafts of lectures, outlines, and notes. More than half of these are identified as having been delivered at Smith College. Unidentified lectures include what appear to be Bassett's earliest lectures, some of which are written on Trinity College stationery. Bassett's speeches are grouped by topic since few are dated or have formal titles. Both his speeches and his lectures are useful in tracing Bassett's views on race relations, southern history and culture, and developments in the historical profession.
The Research and Writings series reflects Bassett's contributions to historical research through his exploration of slavery and the antislavery movement, plantation management, and nineteenth-century American historiography, as well as through his biography of Andrew Jackson and editorship of Jackson's letters. Bassett's research files include notes from his research in manuscript repositories, conversations and interviews, and access to privately held manuscripts. Correspondence in the research files pertains to his research on slavery in North Carolina and the search for letters of Andrew Jackson. The writings file contains drafts of many of Bassett's books as well as a large group of unidentified and miscellaneous writings and a collection of literary and poetical manuscripts, many of which pertain to southern themes.
Diaries and journals kept by Bassett.
Correspondence between Bassett and his wife, Jessie Lewellin Bassett, and from each of them to their children, Richard H. Bassett and Margaret Byrd Bassett.
Correspondence with related attachments.
Correspondence, diaries, receipts, legal documents, writings, photographs, and printed matter collected by Bassett.
Correspondence, minutes, reports, financial records, academic files, address book, notebook, and printed matter, largely concerning teaching and professional positions held by Bassett.
Drafts, outlines, and notes from lectures and speeches delivered by Bassett.
Drafts of writings and research files consisting of notes, correspondence, and printed matter.
Oversize material consisting of printed ephemera and research cards files.
The papers of the Titus Coan family span the period 1806-1923, with the bulk from 1832 to 1882. Consisting mainly of correspondence between members of the families of Titus Coan and his wife, Fidelia Church Coan, these letters document the Coans' lives in Hilo, Hawaii, from 1834 to 1882 and reflect the missionary spirit of that period. The collection organized in five series: Diaries and Journals, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Miscellany, and Printed Matter.
Titus Coan's journals tell of his travels to distant lands in missionary endeavors. In 1833-1834 he recorded a trip to Patagonia to explore the possibility of mission fields in that region. Much of this journal was published in his book Adventures in Patagonia. Journals of two trips to the Marquesas Islands made in 1860 and 1867 describe the land and its inhabitants as well as the progress of missions there, while other journals tell of his journey and early years of residence in Hawaii, where he served for over forty-five years. These experiences were further amplified in his autobiography, Life in Hawaii.
The Coans' correspondence is primarily with family members, including their daughter, Harriet Fidelia Coan, a teacher at Punahou, Hawaii, and their son, Samuel Latimer Coan, who was living in San Francisco in the late 1860s and the 1870s, and describes the day-to-day events of their lives. Other correspondence relating to missionary work is that with Fidelia Coan's sister, Maria Church Robinson, who served with her husband as missionary to Siam from 1834 to 1847, at the same time that the Coans were beginning their service in Hawaii.
The General Correspondence series also reflects the religious feeling and missionary endeavors of the period. The Coans corresponded with other missionaries in the Hawaiian Islands and with friends at home, many of whom were active in societies that supported such work. Correspondents include Sophie Madeleine Du Pont (wife of Admiral Samuel Francis Du Pont), Chester Smith Lyman, Mary Oliphant, and Sara Oliphant.
An extensive collection of printed matter is preserved with the collection. Much of this constitutes, in effect, an article file for Titus Coan consisting of journals to which he contributed. He was particularly interested in volcanoes and wrote many observations on the eruptions of Kilauea, the volcano on the slope of Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii. These he contributed to the American Journal of Science and Arts. He also contributed extensively to missionary journals such as Missionary Herald and The Friend.
Copies of Titus Coan's two books are included in the Miscellany series along with numerous clippings and articles about him, a copy of Titus Coan; a Memorial (Chicago, Revell [1884] 248 pp.) by his second wife, Lydia Bingham Coan, and some material written in Hawaiian.
Diaries and journals of Titus Coan and his wife, Fidelia Church Coan.
Letters received and sent between family members. Arranged alphabetically by writer of letter.
Correspondence with persons other than family members.
Clippings about Titus Coan, wills, drafts of writings by members of the Coan family, and pamphlets and copies of books by Titus Coan.
Journals, magazines, and serials publications containing writings of Titus Coan or references to him.
Books relating to missionary work Hawaii and Polynesia, and containing references to Titus Coan and his work in Hawaii.
The papers of Henry Ward Beecher (1813-1887) span the years 1836 to 1886, with the bulk of the material originating between 1840 and 1865. Included in the collection are correspondence, sermons, writings (including manuscript and galley proof of The Life of Jesus the Christ), notes and notebooks, prints and photographs, financial papers, clippings, scrapbooks and printed matter. All of the material relates to Beecher's work as a theologian and clergyman with the greatest portion of it consisting of drafts of his sermons.
The papers of Otto Fleischmann (1896-1963) span the years 1910-1985, with the bulk of the material dating from 1936 to 1960. The papers are in English, German, Hungarian, Russian, and Swedish and are organized alphabetically by subject matter and type of material.
Fleischmann had a long friendly relationship with Anna Freud, and the papers include many letters from her as well as writings, both published and unpublished. She also is represented in a file of photographs. Many photographs are from conferences, but one folder contains informal snapshots of Fleischmann, Freud, and August Aichhorn while in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1948.
Also of special interest are the papers from Fleischmann's time in Budapest, Hungary, during World War II. Included are documents provided by Raoul Wallenberg at the Swedish Foreign Ministry to Fleischmann that protected him from German Nazi authorities in 1944, including a photostatic copy of his "Schutz-Pass." There are photographs of Fleischmann and Wallenberg and documents and lists from Fleischmann's work with Wallenberg. Also in the papers are documents written by Fleischmann to Soviet and Hungarian authorities after the disappearance of Wallenberg in January of 1945. Other documents refer to Pál Szalai, the high-ranking member of the Budapest police force who helped Wallenberg in his efforts to save the Jews of Budapest.
The papers include a multivolume handwritten manuscript by the German philosopher Moritz Schlick (1882-1936). The title varies from volume to volume, but the first volume's title is "Natur, Kultur, Kunst." Schlick was one of the first to make the work of physicist Albert Einstein popularly understood.
Material relating to Sigmund Freud consists primarily of funeral orations, a medical case history, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous material. However, there is one folder of photostatic copies of documents written by Freud.
Material from Fleischmann's time spent in the United States concerns his book and journal collections and a 1959 American Psychoanalytic Association panel on male homosexuality.
The papers of Charles Julius Allen (1840-1915) and Grace Elizabeth Allen (1886-1976), father and daughter, span the years 1865-1976 and consist of correspondence, diaries, family histories, personal reminiscences, notes, clippings, and printed matter.
Charles Allen, a brigadier general on his retirement, spent much of his life in the United States Army Corps of Engineers. His papers contain correspondence and other items from his Civil War service, plus later material that he retained and collected as part of an unpublished Allen family history. Included are personal reminiscences of Allen’s life in the military, especially as a cadet at the United States Military Academy, as an engineer in the army corps of engineers, and during the Civil War at Mobile Bay, Alabama, August 1864, and in the Mobile Campaign, March-April 1865.
The papers of Grace Allen consist mainly of diaries started by her parents in her infancy and kept throughout her life. They include references to her service with the American Red Cross, to Washington, D.C., and New York social life, including observations about Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, to her world travels, and to various world, national, and local affairs. Also included are letters from George S. Patton (1885-1945), with whom the Allen family had a long association, written during World War II.
The records of the American Foreign Service Association span the years 1940-1964 and consist of editorial correspondence, articles, memoranda, editorials, essays, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter pertaining to the publication of the American Foreign Service Journal issued in Washington, D.C., by the American Foreign Service Association, also known as the Foreign Service Association.
The Correspondence series features letters with foreign service officers of all ranks, State Department officials, publishing houses, advertisers, and contributors. Correspondents include Ellis Ormsbee Briggs, Gordon Alexander Craig, Francis Colt De Wolf, Robert H. Estabrook, George F. Kennan, Lewis Rubenstein, Robert Peet Skinner, Henry Serrano Villard, James Russell Wiggins, and Henry M. Wriston.
The Essay Contests series relates to writing contests sponsored by the association in 1940 and 1944. The contest in 1940 asked officers to describe unusual or amusing events and incidents they had witnessed or an experience of an extraordinary or dramatic character. Essays in 1944 were submitted under the title "Suggestions for Improving the Foreign Service and Its Administration to Meet Its War and Postwar Responsibilities."
Editorial correspondence including comments, essays, articles, editorials, memoranda, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and photographs.
Essays submitted for publication by foreign service officers as part of writing contests in 1940 and 1944, together with correspondence, memoranda, editorial sheets, and other material.
The papers of William Freeland Fullam (1855-1926) span the years 1873-1942, with the bulk of the material falling in the period 1906-1922. The papers consist of correspondence, orders to duty, speeches and writings, newspaper clippings, printed matter, photographs, and miscellaneous items and are organized into the following series: General Correspondence and Orders to Duty, Speech, Article, and Book File, and Miscellany.
Fullam’s correspondence and the columns he wrote for the New York Tribune in the 1920s reflect his views on the removal of United States marines from cruising ships, the reorganization of the Navy Department and the coordination of its bureaus, the superiority of air power, the conduct of World War I operations, and other military topics.
The papers also provide insight into American foreign policy in the Caribbean and Central American areas where Fullam had patrolled the coastal waters of Santo Domingo, Cuba, Honduras, and Nicaragua in 1906 and 1907.
Prominent among Fullam’s correspondents are Philip Andrews, William S. Benson, Victor Blue, Josephus Daniels, Edwain Denby, George Dewey, Bradley A. Fiske, Albert Gleaves, Ernestine Schumann-Heink, Harris Laning, Blair Lee, Stephen B. Luce, Charles B. McVay, William A. Mitchell, James H. Oliver, John E. Pillsbury, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Seaton Schroeder, William S. Sims, and Richard Wainwright.
Letters received and drafts of letters sent.
Articles, historical sketches, notes, reports, statements, and miscellaneous items.
Biographical material, photographs, printed matter, and other miscellaneous items.
The papers of Norman Hapgood (1868-1937) and Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood (1894-1974), span the period 1824-1977. The collection is organized into the following series: Family Papers, Special Correspondence, General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, and Addition. Some of the letters to Elizabeth Hapgood are written in Russian, German, and French.
Correspondence comprises the bulk of the papers. Early letters from Norman and Elizabeth Hapgood to members of their family, as well as letters between various members of the Hapgood and Reynolds families, make up the correspondence in the Family Papers. This correspondence is dated from 1824 to 1974. There is also a considerable amount of correspondence between Elizabeth and her mother, Margaret T. Reynolds, before and during her marriage to Norman Hapgood.
Elizabeth Hapgood was a well known translator, and especially fluent in Russian. The Special Correspondence includes letters to her from friends in Africa, Europe, Russia, and the United States. The Special Correspondence also contain letters to Norman Hapgood from Newton Diehl Baker, Louis Dembitz Brandeis, Edward Mandell House, T. G. Masaryk, William Gibbs McAdoo, George Foster Peabody, Frank L. Polk, and the White House. Norman Hapgood's correspondence dates from 1896 to 1937 and relates to politics and contemporary affairs.
The Subject File contains copies of diplomatic dispatches from April to December 1919, as well as miscellaneous material concerning Hapgood's service as United States minister to Denmark. The Speeches and Writings File and the Miscellany series include galley proofs of Hapgood's magazine and newspaper articles, 1917-1918; reprints and typescripts of speeches by members of the Hapgood family and others; clippings; and printed matter and miscellaneous documents. The final series, Addition, consists chiefly of personal and general correspondence of Norman Hapgood and Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood.
Correspondence, legal documents, and miscellaneous papers of the Hapgood and Reynolds families. Also correspondence and miscellaneous papers relating to the Columbia Conserve Company, a family business.
Letters to Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood from friends in the German army and from Russia before and during the Bolshevik Revolution. Also correspondence of Norman Hapgood relating to political and current affairs.
General letters and memoranda received.
Correspondence, miscellaneous documents, notes, and reports.
Miscellaneous translations by Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood and an interview; typescript copies of editorials and speeches by Norman Hapgood, clippings, and galley proofs of his articles; and miscellaneous family writings.
Calling cards, clippings, documents, printed matter, and miscellaneous writings and speeches of persons other than the Hapgoods.
Correspondence, personal and general, of Norman Hapgood and Elizabeth Reynolds Hapgood, printed matter, and other material.
The papers of Lewis Muhlenberg Haupt (1844-1937) span the years, 1849-1923, with the bulk of the items dating from 1892 to 1903. A majority of the collection concerns Haupt’s work for the Nicaraguan Canal Commission and the Isthmian Canal Commission and his attempts to secure the Nicaraguan Canal. The papers are in English and are organized into the following series: Family Papers, Correspondence, Records of the Nicaraguan and the Isthmian Canal Commissions, and Miscellany.
The Correspondence deals exclusively with the canal question. Haupt was an advocate of the Nicaraguan route rather than the Panamanian, and lobbied for the former. Correspondence about his lobbying efforts are found in his letters to Senator John Tyler Morgan, the Senate advocate of the Nicaraguan route, and Theodore C. Search, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. The letters are arranged chronologically with an indexed letterbook for 1900 at the end of the correspondence.
The Records of the Nicaraguan and the Isthmian Canal Commissions contain minutes of commission meetings; internal memoranda; questionnaires; memorials sent to the commission; working papers; drawings and charts; newspaper clippings; congressional hearings, speeches, and proposed bills; and reports submitted to and prepared by the commission, including Preliminary Report of the Isthmian Canal Commission and drafts of the final report. The working papers consist of articles and statistical and climatological data on Central America; information on sizes, drafts, and weights of ships; and shipping rates. The internal memoranda are conjectural papers written for the commission by its members on the cost of building the canal, projected income and profits, and expected usage. The drawings and charts contain Haupt’s projection of the Nicaraguan route and a map of the route printed in a contemporary journal.
The Miscellany file includes speeches and articles by Haupt supporting the canal route through Nicaragua and advertisements for his classes at the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia.
The Family Papers consist of typescripts of letters written by Haupt's father, Herman Haupt, between July 1861 and September 1862, a letterbook of Herman Haupt’s correspondence from November 1862 to August 1863, and a letter from Haupt to his son Lewis M. Haupt in September 1863. These letters contain a large amount of family correspondence as well as official correspondence concerning Herman Haupt’s duties as chief of construction and operation of the United States Bureau of Military Railroads during the Civil War.
Typescripts of Herman Haupt’s letters, a letterbook with index, and a letter to Lewis M. Haupt.
Letters received and copies of letters sent relating to the isthmian canal.
Minutes, internal memoranda, questionnaires, working papers, memorials, reports, drawings, charts, newspaper clippings, and congressional hearings and speeches.
Advertisements, articles, and speeches.
The papers of George Eugene Belknap (1832-1903) span the years 1857-1903, and consist of correspondence, speeches, articles, and miscellaneous material. The papers reflect Belknap’s naval career including duty in the barrier forts at Canton, China, in the 1850s, combat duty in the Civil War, a tour of duty in Hawaii, and his command of the Asiatic Fleet. His interest in hydrographical and oceanographical matters as well as contemporary social, political, and economic questions is demonstrated by correspondence with his colleagues. Principal among these are Daniel Ammen, John M. Brooke, Caspar F. Goodrich, Samuel W. Lowell, George Collier Remey, John A. Riddle, and Francis Asbury Roe. There is also a grouping of notes and memoranda apparently intended for use in an autobiography, some research in Belknap family genealogy, a small amount of family correspondence, and recollections and writings about the sea.
The papers of Charles Burke Elliott (1861-1935) span the years 1910-1912 and consist of typewritten diaries, a letterbook, newspaper clippings, and translations from Spanish and Filipino of newspaper articles from the Philippines. The collection focuses exclusively on Elliott’s service in the Philippines as associate justice of the supreme court of the Philippines, 1910-1911, and from 1911 to 1912 as secretary of commerce and police of the second Philippine Commission. The diaries are detailed and extensive, covering social, political, and governmental affairs as well as Elliott’s travels throughout the country and to China. Included are a few memoranda, reports, and copies of letters sent and received relating to conditions in the Philippines and governance of the country, including a memorandum from W. Cameron Forbes on transferring the authority of the office of secretary of commerce and police from him to Elliott.
The papers of Joseph Smith Fowler (1820-1902) span the years 1863-1903 and consist of correspondence, biographical material, a memorandum book, writings, printed matter, and other material relating mainly to autobiographical reflections on his political activity as a Unionist and as comptroller of Tennessee under Andrew Johnson during the Civil War and his service from 1866 to 1871 as United States senator from Tennessee. Included are observations on Reconstruction and opposition to the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson.
The Miscellaneous Papers in the Sigmund Freud Collection span the years 1866-1983, with the bulk of material dating from 1908 to 1957. The papers are in German, English, and French and contain writings, organizational records, biographical data, correspondence, photograph, and printed matter documenting many aspects of the psychoanalytic movement. The material is organized in two series: Miscellany and Microfilm.
The Miscellany series consists primarily of material from psychoanalytic organizations and writings by various individuals on psychoanalytic theory, the history of psychoanalysis, and the work of individual psychoanalysts. Among the psychoanalytic organizations represented are the Association des Psychanalystes de Belgique, the Deutsche Psychoanalytische Gesellschaft, and the Psychological Center, a psychoanalytic training institute founded by Otto Rank in Paris in 1934. Articles on psychoanalytic theory are by Otto Gross, René Laforgue, and Oskar Pfister. The work of Josine Müller and Lili E. Peller, among others, is explored in memorials and biographical material.
The Microfilm series features reproductions of Josef Breuer’s correspondence with family and colleagues, correspondence and drafts of writings by Paul Federn, letters received by Eduard Hitschmann from Sigmund Freud, and Emil Oberholzer’s correspondence with fellow psychoanalysts. The Freud family is represented in correspondence with Alexander and Harry Freud, Sigmund Freud’s brother and nephew. Other microfilmed material includes minutes from meetings of the Wiener Psychoanalytische Vereinigung, Josef Gicklhorn’s research on Sigmund Freud, and a scrapbook assembled on Freud by Isador H. Coriat. The Sigmund Freud Archives subsequently donated originals or facsimiles of the same material to other collections of papers within the Sigmund Freud Collection. Exceptions are Emil Oberholzer’s correspondence and Isador H. Coriat’s scrapbook which exist at the Library only on microfilm.
Writings, organizational records, biographical data, correspondence, certificates, photograph, and printed matter.
Correspondence, minutes, drafts of writings, research files, scrapbooks, and printed matter.
The microfilm of the papers of David Homer Bates (1843-1926) spans the years 1837-1926 and consists of reproductions of collected items as well as the personal papers of Bates that comprise part of the Alfred Whital Stern Collection of Lincolniana in the Rare Book and Special Collections Division of the Library. Included are a diary, correspondence, facsimiles, photographs, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and drafts and annotated proof sheets of some of Bates's writings. The papers are organized into the following series: Civil War File, Correspondence, Fascimiles, Miscellany, and Scrapbooks.
Notable among the collected items are eleven Abraham Lincoln manuscripts and single letters of such Civil War commanders as Robert E. Lee, James Lawson Kemper, Edmund Kirby-Smith, Richard Stoddert Ewell, and Jefferson Columbus Davis.
Among the personal papers is a diary and daily journal kept by Bates for the period November 1863 to June 1865, while he served as manager of the War Department telegraph office in Washington, D.C. This volume is of importance as a record of military intelligence activities in the Civil War and is of further interest because of the manner in which the day-to-day narrative reveals the significance of telegraphic communication in the area of military science. Also included in the personal papers are letters of Andrew Carnegie, Thomas Thompson Eckert, and Robert Todd Lincoln. There are also some retained copies of letters written by Bates.
Notes, letters, and endorsements of Abraham Lincoln, letters of Civil War commanders, diary and daily journal of Bates, and miscellaneous items
Letters sent and received, mostly the correspondence of Bates with various individuals.
Reproductions of notes, letters, and other items of Abraham Lincoln, Confederate cipher codes, and miscellaneous material.
Articles, addresses, books, biographical material, photographs, and miscellaneous items.
Two scrapbooks containing magazine and newspaper clippings, letters, and other items related to Lincoln in the Telegraph Office.
The William L. Daley Collection Relating to Billy Sunday spans the years 1914-1925 and consists chiefly of newspaper clippings compiled by Sunday's press agent, William L. Daley, relating to revivals held by the evangelist in Syracuse, New York, 1915; Trenton, New Jersey, and Baltimore, Maryland, 1916; and Buffalo, New York, 1917. Also included is miscellaneous correspondence, sermon notes, brochures, and other printed matter.
Newspapers and newspaper clippings, which make up the bulk of the collection, were discarded after filming and are available only on microfilm.
The papers of Edith Benham Helm (1874-1962) span the years 1915-1961 and pertain to her career as social secretary to the White House during the administrations of Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Harry S. Truman. The papers are organized into three series: Paris Peace Conference, White House Scrapbooks, and Miscellany.
Among the items in Paris Peace Conference series is Edith Benham Helm's daily accounts of her two trips to Europe as a member of the party accompanying President Woodrow Wilson to the Peace Conference in Paris. She served as as secretary to his wife, Edith Bolling Galt Wilson. The White House Scrapbooks include Helms's personal scrapbooks containing invitations and other memorabilia, as well as scrapbooks documenting official social functions at the White House. Among the Miscellany is information about Bess Wallace Truman's activities that were compiled for press briefings.
Notes, scrapbook, photographs, and newspaper clippings.
Scrapbooks containing correspondence, invitations and other memorabilia, and material relating to social functions.
Press briefing material and accounts of events.
The papers of the Howard-von Recum family span the years 1869-1972, with the bulk of the material dating from 1881 to 1955. The papers document the lives of a British diplomat and his family from the late nineteenth century, through two world wars, and into the 1950s. The papers are in English, German, and French and are organized into the following series: Diaries, Correspondence, and Addition.
The Diaries were kept by Sir Henry Howard (1843-1921) and his daughter Baroness Marie Ernestine Howard von Recum (1868-1954), with a few diary pages kept during 1914 by Lizzie Walker, a household maid. The diaries of Sir Henry Howard cover his diplomatic career from 1881 until his death. Some of the diaries sustained damage while others were lost completely during a warehouse fire in 1919. His diaries, also containing reminiscences, clippings, postcards, and ephemera, are complete for the two peace conferences he attended at Hague, Netherlands, his Peking, China, appointment from 1887-1890, and his posting to the Vatican during World War I. Events before 1881 are covered in letters to his parents especially since his father had also been a diplomat.
The diaries of Baroness Marie Ernestine Howard von Recum cover her years as a teenager posted with her family to various countries, her marriage to the German aristocrat Baron Rudolf von Recum, and the beginning of World War I. Her diaries, interleaved with photographs, clippings, and ephemera, document her family life and social and world events. The diaries may cease in 1914 because the baroness was held in protective custody by the German government during World War I.
The Correspondence documents the diplomatic life of both Sir Henry Howard and his family, the separation of family members on different sides during the world wars, and provides a glimpse into the lives of interrelated British, German, and French aristocrats. Correspondents include Sir Henry Howard, his wife Lady Cecilia Riggs Howard (1844-1907), and their children Alice Lawrason Howard (1876-1942), George Howard (1869-1919), Henry Mowbray Howard (1873-1953) known as "Pompey," Janet Madeleine Cecilia Howard (1871-1960) known as "Jessie," and Baroness Marie Ernestine Howard von Recum known as "Da." Other family members with correspondence in the papers include Franz von Recum (1906-1974), Alice L. Riggs (1840-1927), Jane Agnes Riggs (1854-1930), and other members of the Riggs family. The correspondence is arranged as it was received in three-ring binders. Although the binders are labeled as to the person and dates of correspondence enclosed, the labels do not always reflect all the persons or dates contained in a binder. At the end of the correspondence is a volume on Howard genealogy.
Diaries kept by Sir Henry Howard and Baroness Marie Ernestine Howard von Recum with a small diary kept by Lizzie Walker. Includes Sir Henry Howard's address and account books.
Letters of the Howard, von-Recum, and Riggs families, and a genealogical publication.
Sermon and printed matter.
The papers of Dorsey William Hyde (1888-1955) span the years 1757-1955, with the bulk of the material dating from 1905 to 1955, and contain correspondence, diaries, articles and speeches, genealogical and biographical material, photographs, memoranda, and miscellaneous typed and holograph material. The bulk of the collection relates to the National Archives where Hyde served as director of archival service from 1934 to 1942. Included are papers relating to Hyde’s college years and manuscripts of his unpublished poetry written under the pen name of Edward Ramos. Also included in the collection are correspondence and manuscripts of the unpublished poetry of Curtis Hidden Page.
The Inventaire du Trésor des Chartes spans the years 1615-1626 and consists of a twelve-volume inventory of the French royal archives (Trésor des Chartes) prepared by Pierre Dupuy and Théodore Godefroy. The collection is in French and is organized as compiled.
The Ralph Izard Family Papers span the years 1778-1826, with the bulk of the material dating from 1801-1814. The correspondence includes letters of Ralph Izard (1742-1804) relating to his Charleston, South Carolina, estate and the education of his son George Izard (1777-1828); letters of his son, Ralph Izard (1785-1824), relating in part to his service with the United States Navy during the Tripolitan War; and the letters of Alice DeLancey Izard (1745-1832), Margaret Izard Manigault (1768-1824), and Elizabeth Middleton Izard (1787-1822) relating to family and domestic life and to social affairs in Charleston, South Carolina, and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Other correspondents include Thomas Pinckney and John Parker.
The papers of William Maxwell Evarts (1818-1901) span the years 1667-1918 with the bulk of the material dated 1877-1891. They consist of correspondence, a diary, certificates, genealogical material, indexes, a notebook, dockets, memoranda, letterbooks, account books, minute book, printed matter, financial material, and a journal. The bulk of the collection relates to Evarts's tenure as secretary of state, 1877-1881, and United States senator, 1885-1891.
The focus of the collection is on New York state and national politics and international affairs in which Evarts participated. Main topics include Evarts's early law practice, cases in which he represented the United States during the Civil War, the trial of Jefferson Davis, impeachment of Andrew Johnson, the Geneva Arbitration Tribunal of 1871-1872, the election of 1876, appointment of ambassadors, Chinese immigration, presidential campaign of 1880, International Monetary Conference of 1878, the Peabody education fund, dedication of the Statue of Liberty, patronage, suffrage, pensions, tariffs, and the Force Bill that provided for the collection of duties on imported goods.
Correspondents include James Burrill Angell, John Jacob Astor, Edward Bates, James Gillespie Blaine, Joseph Hodges Choate, Cyrus W. Field, James A. Garfield, John Hay, Ebenezer Rockwood Hoar, Levi P. Morton, Edward John Phelps, William H. Seward, William Henry Trescot, Julia Gardiner Tyler, and Robert C. Winthrop.
Correspondence and other documents.
Correspondence, a diary, certificates, genealogical material, indexes, a notebook, dockets, memoranda, letterbooks, account books, minute book, printed matter, financial material, and a journal.
Certificates.
The papers of William Short (1759-1849) span the years 1778-1853. They include a large amount of material dated between 1785 and 1795, the years of Short’s diplomatic service in western Europe, as well as extensive documentation of his business activities after 1810. His papers consist chiefly of letters received, but there are also some copies of letters sent, 1785-1798, as well as various financial papers, including statements, receipts, checkbooks, and ledgers. Much of his correspondence while he was in Europe is with American diplomatic and political figures. There are also letters during this period from various European officials, chiefly in French or Spanish. The collection is organized in Bound Correspondence and Other Papers, Correspondence, Business Papers, Miscellany, and Oversize series.
In 1790 Alexander Hamilton entrusted Short with the negotiation and management of European loans to fund the public debt of the United States, and the two men conducted an extensive correspondence on the subject. Other topics in Short’s correspondence during his European years are conditions in Virginia under the Articles of Confederation, the events of the French Revolution, and incidents pertaining to American diplomatic relations with France and Spain. Short’s correspondence reveals the obstacles to the conduct of foreign relations resulting from the vagaries of trans-Atlantic communication in that era. While residing in Paris following his diplomatic service, and again following his abortive mission to Russia (the Senate refused to confirm the nomination of any minister to Saint Petersburg), Short established a wide circle of foreign friends, with whom he conducted a correspondence for many years thereafter, chiefly in French.
After his return to the United States in 1810, Short successfully pursued a career in investments that resulted eventually in a personal fortune of over one million dollars. He speculated in land in Ohio, Kentucky, and western New York and Virginia; he bought stock in canals, railroads, and banks; he held mortgages and loaned large sums at interest. His Dutch bankers speculated in American bonds on his account. These varied business activities required an extensive correspondence with his land agents (including his nephew, John Cleves Short), bankers, stockbrokers, and debtors. In addition to these letters, his business papers also include bills, accounts, financial statements, checkbooks, and ledgers. Short’s business papers provide considerable insight into the business practices and problems of an investor in the first half of the nineteenth century. They also include some information on Short’s moral and financial support of the program of the American Colonization Society.
A significant number of Short’s papers consist of his correspondence with Thomas Jefferson, who was, variously, his employer, adviser, and friend. Other correspondents of note include John Adams, James Madison, James Monroe (a classmate at William and Mary), Alexander Hamilton, Albert Gallatin, Don Diego de Gardoqui, Manuel de Godoy, the marquis de Lafayette, Alexis de Tocqueville, Michel-Guillaume St. Jean de Crévecoeur, Thomas Paine, William Carmichael, William Grayson, Fulwar Skipwith (his nephew), Gouverneur Morris, John Rutledge, Bushrod Washington, Nicholas Trist, Robert Fulton, Edmund Randolph, Thomas Pinckney, Issac Hull, and two Virginia friends, William Nelson and Merit Robinson. There are also a few letters from his nephew, Charles W. Short, a prominent botanist, and other members of his family.
Official and general correspondence in bound volumes, including some copies of letters sent, and business papers and related material.
Official, general, business, and family correspondence.
Bills, accounts, receipts, and other financial papers. Arranged chronologically, followed by bankbooks, checkbooks, and ledgers
Short’s catalog of Thomas Jefferson’s library, list of Short’s library, and extracts of letters and other miscellany.
A report, maps, diplomas, diplomatic commission, and letter from Edward Everett.
The papers of Charles Bowdoin Fillebrown (1842-1917) span the years 1879-1928 with the bulk of the material dating between 1897 and 1917. The correspondence relates chiefly to Fillebrown's promotion of the single tax concept. Correspondents include Thomas Nixon Carver, John Bates Clark, John R. Commons, Richard T. Ely, Frank A. Fetter, Max Hirsch, Alvin Saunders Johnson, J. Shield Nicholson, Carl C. Plehn, Edwin R. A. Seligman, F. W. Taussig, Carroll Davidson Wright, and Allyn Abbott Young. As part of his effort to build support for the single tax among mainstream academia, Fillebrown sent out a questionnaire on the subject to three hundred professors of political economy. The collection contains 165 responses. Also included are papers relating to the Massachusetts Single Tax League of which Fillebrown was president for many years. They consist chiefly of correspondence, speeches, and printed matter.
Charles Chaillé-Long (1842-1907) was perhaps best known as a soldier, explorer, and first person from the United States to visit and document Lake Ibrahim in the Nile Valley in 1874, and his papers document his African experiences as well as some of his activities as writer, lecturer, practitioner of international law, and diplomat. The majority of the papers are related to the period in the 1870s and 1880s when Chaillé-Long was in Egypt, although the collection as a whole covers the period from 1863 to 1918, with the exception of two letters from Winfield Scott (1786-1866) to A. Porter in 1809-1910. The Scott letters may have come from the Chaillé-Long family or may have been used by Chaillé-Long in his historical studies.
The collection consists of General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, and Miscellany series, but the papers are limited in both scope and amplitude. Although Chaillé-Long family history is documented in applications to the Society of the Sons of the American Revolution and in biographical articles, there are no other references to Chaillé-Long's childhood or family. There are only a few documents from his service in the Civil War, from his practice in international law, and from his tour as consul general in Korea. Many of the papers relate to his attempt to secure an appointment in the United States Foreign Service, to obtain remuneration from the Egyptian government, or to qualify for an army pension in 1907. Consequently, his activities as an officer in the army of Ismail, Khédive of Egypt (1870-1877) and as temporary United States consul during the bombardment of Alexandria in 1882 by the British are well documented. His writings about his experiences in Africa and in the Far East are incomplete but are well represented in the collection, both in manuscript and printed form.
The collection provides source material for studies in the late nineteenth-century history of the Nile Valley, including personal studies of Charles George Gordon and of the Khédive, as well as comments on Egyptian society and the explorations and explorers of the time. Some source material is also included on China in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Most of the material reflects Chaillé-Long's personal view of the times, his comments on the diplomatic service, foreign affairs, and the peoples of alien lands from the point of view of one who was outside the State Department's scope of activities.
Papers in the collection are primarily in English, but many are in French, and a few are in Italian, Arabic, Turkish, and Japanese. Turkish documents include Chaillé-Long's military promotion in the Khédive's army and his decorations by Abdul Mejid, Sultan of Turkey. Included also is a Japanese biography of Chaillé-Long that was written at the time of his diplomatic service in Korea.
Scattered throughout the collection are documents relating to awards and memberships, to the French Legion of Honor, presidential appointments from Grover Cleveland, appearances before various geographical and historical societies, the masonic order, law degrees, and qualification and appointment papers.
The General Correspondence series treats social as well as professional issues and affairs, with many letters of testimonial concerning Chaillé-Long's activities in Egypt in the 1880s. A few copies of Chaillé-Long's own letters are included in this series, as well as in other series. Among the significant correspondents in the collection are D. F. Ardouin, Oreste Baratieri, Baron Charles William de la Poer Beresford, Montgomery Blair, Sue Virginia Field, J. C. Aristide Gavillot, Paul Giraud, J. J. Jusserand, Ismail, Khédive of Egypt, Charles Marie le Myre de Vilers, Paul H. Orillat, Edward Dean Proctor, Paul Taillet, and Henry Vignaud.
The Subject File includes correspondence of a routine nature concerning the organizations with which Chaillé-Long was affiliated, certificates of memberships, awards or honors, member activities, and military records. Also in the file is biographical, bibliographical, and genealogical material.
Files in the Speeches and Writings series include Chaillé-Long's annotated writings on Gordon, the Khédive, the Nile Valley people, and impressions of China and Africa. A scrapbook in the Miscellany series contains articles from French and American journals by and about Chaillé-Long mostly relating to Egypt and the Nile Valley.
Personal and professional correspondence, mostly of letters received, with some copies of letters sent. Includes two letters from Winfield Scott (1786-1866) to A. Porter.
Correspondence, applications for membership, notices, awards, honors, records, and miscellaneous material relating to organizations and the military.
Handwritten and printed speeches and articles, clippings, programs, notes, and fragments.
Printed matter, awards, photographs, clippings about Chaillé-Long, social engagements, and articles by and about Chaillé-Long in a scrapbook.
The papers of David Murray (1830-1905) span the years 1866-1930, with the bulk of the material in the period 1873-1879. The collection contains notes on education, government, history, art, social conditions, and ethnology in Japan made while Murray was superintending the educational reform of the country. It also contains addresses and scholarly papers based on the notes; letters written from Japan by David or his wife, Martha A. Nielson Murray, to relatives in the United States; and addresses and papers on education in the United States, Native American wampum, lotteries, and other subjects.
The papers of the Shippen family span the years 1671-1936. They consist of correspondence, diaries, account books, memorandum books, legal and business papers, indentures, and miscellaneous papers. Family members primarily represented include William Shippen Jr. (1736-1808); his wife Alice Lee Shippen (1736-1817); their children Anne ("Nancy") Home (or Hume) Shippen Livingston (1763-1841) and Thomas Lee Shippen (1765-1798); and William's father, William Shippen Sr. (1712-1801) Papers of the Nicholson family (1671-1860) are also included. The collection is organized in six series: Diaries and Journals, Correspondence, Family Papers, Miscellany, Nicholson Family Papers, and Oversize.
The papers chiefly document the family of William Shippen Jr. They reflect the family’s experiences during the Revolutionary War, their participation in the Philadelphia social circle that surrounded George Washington during his presidency, and the family’s engagement with national politics. They cover William Shippen Jr.’s medical practice, the family’s dealings in Philadelphia real estate, the administration of family estates, and the private lives of family members. The papers are notable for their documentation of the lives of the women of the family, in diaries, letters, and such ephemera as embroidery patterns. Correspondence with and material from members of the Carter, Lee, Nicholson, Roberdeau, other families, some of whom are related, is included.
Correspondents of note include Thomas Jefferson, Francis Scott Key (to Rebecca Nicholson), James Madison (1749-1812), Richard Rush (who appears to have administered the estates of William Shippen Jr. and his son, Thomas Lee Shippen), William Short, and George Washington (two letters to William Shippen Jr, May 3, 1777, and May 7, 1789).
Ann ("Nancy") Home Shippen Livingston’s life is documented by diaries, correspondence, and letterbooks. These document her romance with French diplomat Louis-Guillaume Otto, comte de Mosloy, her unhappy marriage to Henry Beekman Livingston, her separation from Livingston and loss of custody of her child, Margaret "Peggy" Beekman Livingston, her observations on women’s position in society, her life in and around Philadelphia, travels to New York to see her daughter, and more. Her correspondence is with her parents, husband, daughter, uncles Arthur Lee and Richard Henry Lee, and members of the Livingston family.
The diaries and correspondence of Thomas Lee Shippen document his travels in Europe during the 1780s, and subsequent family life until his death in 1798. Correspondence of his wife, Elizabeth Carter (Farley) Bannister Shippen, is also included. (A young widow at the time of their marriage, Elizabeth Shippen married George Izard after Thomas Lee Shippen's death.) Thomas Lee Shippen’s correspondence includes letters from Thomas Jefferson advising him on his European travels, including a detailed itinerary, dated June 19, 1788. There is substantial correspondence on political and family topics between members of the family and Alice Lee Shippen’s brothers, particularly diplomat Arthur Lee and Revolutionary War figure and United States Senator Richard Henry Lee. Alice Lee Shippen’s correspondence is largely to her children and to her niece, Lucy Carter.
Also included is a substantial group of papers of Joseph Hopper Nicholson (1770-1817), a Maryland congressman (1799-1806) and subsequently a judge; his wife, Rebecca Lloyd Nicholson; father, Joseph Nicholson Jr., and other members of their family. Joseph Hopper Nicholson’s correspondence includes letters from congressional colleagues, including Nathaniel Macon, John Randolph, and C. A. Rodney. There are also letters from Frances Few, niece of Hannah Nicholson Gallatin and Albert Gallatin.
Two oversized account books, 1763-1776 and 1776-1793, maintained by William Shippen Jr., contain, among his routine household accounts, records of his medical practice, including purchases of drugs and payments from patients with brief notes on their conditions. Shippen’s correspondence includes letters concerning his hospital post during the Revolutionary War, and exchanges with his children, Edward Shippen, and others.
Diaries, journals, memorandum books, and account books of family members Ann ("Nancy") Shippen Livingston, Howard Post, Mary Elizabeth Roberdeau, Edward Shippen, and Thomas Lee Shippen.
Letters received by members of the Cutting, Farley, Lee, and Shippen families. Includes letters from Francis Scott Key, Lord Lansdowne, Arthur Lee, Richard Henry Lee, James Madison (1749-1812), and George Washington.
Correspondence, memorandum books, financial and legal documents, and miscellaneous material chiefly of members of the family of William Shippen Jr, including Alice Lee Shippen, Ann Home Shippen Livingston, Thomas Lee Shippen, and others.
Financial and legal records, miscellaneous correspondence, genealogical material, memorabilia, poetry, printed matter, and other miscellaneous items.
Chiefly correspondence with some legal material and miscellany.
Three volumes containing financial records and patient records, kept by William Shippen Sr. and his son, William Shippen Jr.
The papers of Lewis Tappan (1788-1873) span the years 1809-1903, with the bulk dating from 1809 to 1872. The collection consists of correspondence, letterbooks, journals, notebooks, clippings, photocopies, notes, and miscellaneous other items. The journals and notebooks, which date from 1841 to 1869, are replete with information concerning Tappan’s activities in the antislavery movement and contribute as well to an understanding of his private life, particularly his religious views. The collection is organized in the following series: Journals and Notebooks, Correspondence, Miscellany, and Additions.
The bulk of the correspondence in the Lewis Tappan papers is made up of copies of his outgoing letters, ranging in date from 1812 to 1870. Legibility of many of these copies is poor, and there are a number of gaps in the chronology. Nine of the volumes include indexes to correspondents. Incoming correspondence, although limited in quantity, covers the period 1809-1871. Subject matter throughout Tappan’s correspondence strongly reflects his interest in antislavery activities and his participation in organizations that promoted abolition.
Tappan’s exposure to Calvinist and Unitarian theology is reflected in his journals by comments on ministers and the themes of their sermons. Also evident in the journals, which contain numerous newspaper clippings, and in his correspondence, is Tappan’s involvement in promoting his ideas through Bible, tract, peace, abolition, and missionary societies, and through Sunday schools, free churches, charitable organizations, political parties, and newspapers. Prominent among the organizations represented are the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, the American Bible Society, the American Colonization Society, the American Missionary Association, the Union Missionary Society, and the Liberty Party. The New York Journal of Commerce, the National Era, and the American Missionary are among the publications with which Tappan was involved. Slavery, colonization, education of African Americans, and the role of the Christian in the abolition movement dominate the writings dating from 1836. Some of the leading issues discussed are the annexation of Texas and the moves taken for the release from custody of the African captives who had mutinied aboard the Spanish schooner Amistad. Of special interest is Tappan’s journal of the General Anti-slavery Convention of 1843 in London, England.
A small portion of the collection deals with Tappan’s business ventures, particularly his Mercantile Agency, the first commercial credit-rating agency in the United States. Throughout the papers there is documentation of routine family activities of the various members of the Tappan family, as well as of their interaction on matters of mutual concern, particularly where business, religion, and abolition were involved.
Prominent correspondents include John Quincy Adams, James Gillespie Birney, Frederick Douglass, William Lloyd Garrison, Seth Merrill Gates, Samuel D. Hastings, William Jay, Joshua Leavitt, Amos A. Phelps, Theodore Sedgwick, Joseph Sturge, and John Greenleaf Whittier. Lewis Tappan’s brothers, Benjamin and Arthur, are well represented in the collection as well as other members of the Tappan and Aspinwall families.
In addition to original manuscripts, photocopies of Tappan items in other repositories—notably from papers in the Oberlin College Library—are present in the collection. Most of these copies fall between 1831 and 1841, and consist of letters of Arthur and Lewis Tappan to John J. Shipherd, Charles G. Finney, and Samuel D. Hastings. They deal mainly with the Tappan brothers’ involvement in, and financial support of, religious movements in New York City and at Oberlin College.
Miscellaneous items include John Quincy Adams’s holograph draft of a legal brief pleading for release of the Amistad captives, autobiographical notes, genealogical material on the Tappan and Aspinwall families, and a lecture by Theodore Weld. Writings, notes, and other miscellaneous items relating to slavery include a list of articles on emancipation by Lewis Tappan, a list of antislavery hymns, a copy of a deed of manumission, an article by Ansel Bascom, and materials on the expurgation of references to slavery in published works.
The Additions consist of a letter of 1857 by Tappan to Henry A. Miles reflecting on his religious beliefs, and a letter of 1847 by Tappan expressing condolonces to Eliza Scott on the death of her husband, Orange Scott.
Volumes containing entries of activities, clippings, and miscellaneous information.
Mostly letters to Lewis Tappan.
Mostly letters by Lewis and Arthur Tappan from collections of papers in the Oberlin College Library, Oberlin, Ohio.
Autobiographical and genealogical notes, clippings, scrapbook, lecture, John Quincy Adams’s brief on the Amistad case, and other items.
Correspondence.
The records of the Center for a Woman’s Own Name span the years 1956-2008, with the bulk of the material dating from 1972 to 1985. The collection is comprised primarily of correspondence but also includes administrative files, clippings, legal files, promotional materials, and publications. The papers are in English and are organized into the following four series: Correspondence, State File, Consumer Credit Project, and Miscellany.
The Correspondence series documents both public and private reactions to Tepper’s name change petition and her initial efforts to gather information and resources to form the Center. The Tepper's correspondence with her family includes letters between Tepper and her mother-in-law, Idelle Weiner, along with Tepper’s personal narrative detailing the impact Tepper’s name change had on their relationship. The correspondence between Priscilla Ruth MacDougall and Tepper reflects the development of the Center’s mission and strategy as well as MacDougall’s analysis of legal cases and opinions. The series contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence, primarily between MacDougall and Tepper. Notable correspondents in this series include Brenda Feigen, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elissa Krauss, and Kathleen Willert Peratis who represent organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union Women’s Rights Project, the Lucy Stone League, National Organization for Women, and Women’s Legal Defense Fund.
The State File comprises the bulk of the collection and consists primarily of correspondence. The series contains a master file of attorney general opinions and state legislative councils; therein, the series is organized alphabetically by state. The material in this series was used by Tepper to track each state’s recent legal opinions and legislation. The volunteers correspondence contains letters from individuals and organizations that act as contacts in each state. Their duties included providing the Center with updates on state legislation and lawsuits and distributing the Center's fact sheets and informational pamphlets. The material in this series complements the general correspondence from the Correspondence series as many of these individuals and organizations initially contacted Tepper to request information on name change law.
Notable correspondents include Joan F. Kessler, Jean L. King, Ann Landers, Kathryn Scates Levedahl, Pat Montandon, the Olympia Brown League, The Playboy Foundation, Sylvia Roberts, Bernice Sandler, Sheila Cabral Sousa, Una Stannard, Abigail Van Buren, Amy Vanderbilt, and Sarah Ragle Weddington. The series also includes correspondence from name change petitioners Kathleen R. Harney, Judith Natale Montage, and Anne H. Takemoto as well as those who used common law to establish their legal names such as Kathy Ann Sheley.
The State File demonstrates the wide reaching network of individuals and organizations supporting a woman’s right to determine her own name as well as the disagreements among supporters regarding the best method and strategy to ensure this right. The series is especially rich in personal narratives, women expressing the connection between their names and their sense of identity and autonomy. These narratives illustrate the way state laws, institutional policies, bureaucratic barriers, and personal bias impacted women on a practical level, affecting their ability to file tax returns and obtain identification and credit. The realization that many women lost their credit history after they took their husband’s name and were often unable to obtain credit under their own name after marriage led Tepper to create the Consumer Credit Project.
The Consumer Credit Project series contains administrative files, clippings, correspondence, credit discrimination complaints, credit surveys, legal files, promotional materials, publications, and other writings. The series documents the Project’s efforts to educate women about their credit rights and to help those who had faced discriminatory credit practices.
The Miscellany series includes administrative files, announcements, clippings, legal files, promotional material, publications, and a scrapbook. The historical file includes an essay by Tepper chronicling her decision to file the name change petition and the creation of the Center. The legal file consists chiefly of material from Lawrence Jay Weiner, an attorney and Tepper’s husband, who represented Tepper and several other women in their name change petitions. This series also contains MacDougall’s published writings on women and name change law.
Correspondence with individuals, various federal agencies and armed services, organizations and schools, the press, and Terri P. Tepper's family.
Correspondence with attorneys general, legislative councils, individuals, litigants, organizations and schools, press, and volunteers.
Correspondence, clippings, legal files, promotional materials, publications, and surveys.
Administrative files, announcements, clippings, legal files, promotional materials, publications, scrapbook, and writings.
The papers of Kathleen Scofield (“Katie”) Louchheim (1903-1991) span the years 1906-1991, with the bulk of material dating from 1942 to 1968. The collection documents Louchheim's prominence in Democratic Party politics, including her tenure as vice chairman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960, and her Department of State appointments as deputy assistant secretary for public affairs, 1962-1963, community advisory services, 1963-1966, and educational and cultural affairs, 1966-1968. The collection includes family papers, general correspondence, journals, social calendars, subject files, interviews, speeches and writings, photographs, memorabilia, and scrapbooks arranged in eleven series: Family Papers, General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Scrapbooks, 1978 Addition, 1986 Addition, 1997 Addition, 2010 Addition, Classified, and Oversize.
The Family Papers consist largely of letters to and from family members and include some of the collection's earliest letters from Louchheim, largely to her husband, Walter C. Louchheim, and mother, Adele Joseph Scofield, between 1926 and 1961. The series also contains letters from Walter Louchheim while attending the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944. The papers of Adele Joseph Scofield reflect her numerous charitable activities and interest in politics.
The General Correspondence series documents Louchheim's involvement in Democratic Party activities, her State Department tenure, and the social life of Washington, D.C. Correspondents include Barry Bingham, Mary Caperton Bingham, Hale Boggs, Lindy Boggs, Bennett Cerf, Albert Gore (1907-1998), Pauline La Fon Gore, Florence Jaffray Hurst Harriman, Hubert H. Humphery, Lady Bird Johnson, Abigail Q. McCarthy, Eugene J. McCarthy, Stephen A. Mitchell, Sam Rayburn, Edwin O. Reischauer, Haru Matsukata Reischauer, Bess Wallace Truman, and Charles E. Wyzanski. There are also personal notes from presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, and Lyndon B. Johnson and from Adlai E. Stevenson (1900-1965).
The Subject File concerns positions held by Louchheim with the Democratic National Committee and the State Department as well as her association with various committees and organizations. The largest segment pertains to her years at the State Department from 1961 to 1968 and details her involvement with special welfare projects abroad, her endeavors to enlist the interest and support of women and women's organizations in international cultural affairs, her efforts to increase contact between the department and the American public, and her oversight of community relations with foreign visitors, exchange programs, foreign student affairs, and foreign service specialist programs.
Material in the Subject File relating to the Democratic National Committee provides insight into grassroots and national politics, especially women's activities. The series also concerns Louchheim's postwar work with displaced persons and refugees with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) and her membership on Lady Bird Johnson's Committee for a More Beautiful Capital during the 1960s. Other information on the UNRRA can be found in the Speeches and Writings and the Family Papers series.
The Speech and Writings series includes drafts and publicity copies of speeches, correspondence, travel arrangements, press releases, and clippings. Included are speeches delivered by Louchheim for the Democratic National Committee and for Democratic candidates throughout the country. Her speeches on behalf of the State Department explore aspects of official policies, women's activities, volunteer programs, beautification projects, foreign affairs, educational and cultural programs, and the department's activities at home and abroad. In foreign countries, Louchheim was called upon most frequently to speak about the status, employment, and rights of American women.
Many of Louchheim's published and unpublished writings relate to social and political life of the nation's capital. "Protocol in Washington," an unpublished book-length manuscript, includes interview material with prominent Washington hostesses of the late 1940s. Her political memoirs were published as By the Political Sea. Several short stories and plays further explore the interplay between Washington's social and political life. The series also includes Louchheim's poetry, most notably a collection published under the title, With or Without Roses. Correspondence from publishers, editors, fans, critics, and friends in the publishing field is also included.
The 1978 and 1986 Additions contain family papers, general correspondence, subject files, and speeches and writings. Many of the same correspondents listed in the General Correspondence and Subject File series, including Walter H. Annenberg, Evangeline Bruce, Angier Biddle Duke, Robin Chandler Lynn Duke, India Edwards, and Henry Ehrlich, can be found in these series as well. Also included are files on Louchheim's work in the State Department, Unesco, and UNRRA, as well as some of her speeches and writings. The 1986 Addition contains photographs and additional scrapbooks.
The 1997 Addition includes journals kept by Louchheim from 1942 to 1981 describing life in wartime Washington, Democratic Party campaigns and conventions during the 1950s and 1960s, and Louchheim's State Department positions. Her descriptions of Washington's social and political life constitute the largest part of the journals. The volumes, many of which include partial indexes, contain accounts of political figures, many of whom were Louchheim's close friends. Frequently mentioned and quoted are Paul M. Butler, Liz Carpenter, William O. Douglas, Albert Gore (1907-1998), Florence Jaffray Hurst Harriman, Hubert H. Humphrey, Lyndon B. Johnson, Lady Bird Johnson, John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, Eugene J. McCarthy, James Reston, Dean Rusk, Theodore Sorensen, Adlai E. Stevenson, and Harry S. Truman. Interviews conducted by Louchheim in 1985 and 1986 for a book on prominent women include Kitty Carlisle, Betty Furness, and Constance Baker Motley. The 2010 Addition consists of political campaign buttons and other memorabilia.
Correspondence and printed matter to, from, and about family members.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, lists, clippings, and printed material relating to the Democratic National Committee, State Department, and various committees and organizations.
Correspondence; drafts of speeches, articles, books, short stories, novels, plays, and poetry; interview transcripts; scripts from radio and television appearances; and research material.
Scrapbooks containing clippings, photographs, mementos, and correspondence relating to the Democratic National Committee, State Department, Unesco, and Louchheim's public appearances and writings.
Family papers, general correspondence, subject file, and speeches and writings.
General correspondence, subject file, speeches and writings file, and photographs.
Journals, family and general correspondence, eulogies, and interviews.
Political campaign buttons, a sticker, and plastic figure.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, reports, minutes, personnel records, and lists.
Scrapbook, an autographed photograph of Louchheim and Lyndon B. Johnson, and prints.
The papers of Samuel Dash (1925-2004) span the years 1748-2004, with the bulk of the material dating from 1965 to 2002. The papers are in English and are organized into the following series: Consultations and Cases, Government Investigations, Organizations and Committees, Teaching File, General Correspondence, General Office File, Speech and Engagement File, Writings File, Grand Jury File (Closed), Top Secret, and Sensitive Compartmented Information.
The Consultations and Cases file contains material related to legal matters where Dash acted as an expert witness, mediator, lawyer, or as an ethics consultant to various legal firms, individual lawyers, and governments. Of note is his work regarding asbestos and tobacco litigation cases, United States House and Senate investigative committees, the Independent Counsel Act, the attorney general and government of Puerto Rico, Pete Rose in Rose v. Giamatti, and James J. Curran, Jr., in United States v. Curran.
The Government Investigations series includes material related to Richard M. Nixon and the Watergate Affair, murder incidents at Cerro Maravilla in Puerto Rico, the impeachment inquiry of Governor Bill Sheffield of Alaska, and the Whitewater Inquiry into Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton. From 1973 to 1974, Dash served as the chief counsel and staff director of the United States Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities investigating President Richard M. Nixon and his closest advisors in what became known as the Watergate Affair. Dash's files consist of legal documents, reports, newspaper clippings, photographs, and interviews. A large body of correspondence mostly from the public also contains letters from committee members and attorneys. In 1984, Dash became the special counsel to the president of the senate of Puerto Rico during a reinvestigation of the 1978 Cerro Maravilla incident where two Puerto Rican independence advocates were murdered. His files include correspondence, memoranda, interviews, as well as material related to the Freedom of Information Act request that grew into the case Senate of Puerto Rico ex rel. Judiciary Committee v. United States Department of Justice. In 1985, Dash served as the chief counsel to the Alaska state senate during its impeachment inquiry of Governor Sheffield regarding a multi-million dollar lease agreement with one of Sheffield's friends. Dash's files include correspondence, grand jury material, interviews, statements, and transcripts. From 1994 until 1998, Dash was the ethics advisor to Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr during the Whitewater Inquiry involving the real estate dealings of President Bill Clinton, his wife Hillary Rodham Clinton, and their former associates in Arkansas. Dash and Starr also dealt with the president's relationship with Monica Lewinsky and the independent counsel's recommendation that the president be impeached. His files include legal material, correspondence, letters from the public, press releases, and reports. Of note is the correspondence and newspaper clippings relating to Dash's resignation and criticism of Kenneth Starr in 1998.
The Organizations and Committees series reflects Dash's participation in a myriad of associations. Over his long membership in the American Bar Association, Dash served in the Sections of Criminal Law and Criminal Justice as well as on various standing committees. Reflected under the records of this organization is Dash's work on the issues of standards in criminal justice, criminal law, drugs, ethics, professional responsibility, model rules of professional conduct, advertising by lawyers, crime prevention, juvenile delinquency, and electronic surveillance. As director of the Institute of Criminal Law and Procedure at Georgetown University Law Center, he oversaw the Appellate Litigation Clinic and other projects encompassing criminal prosecution, drug addiction, forensic science, eyewitness identification, pretrial release, plea bargaining, offender rehabilitation, the role of prison industries, and defendant pre-arraignment. Dash's participation in the Judicial Conference of the District of Columbia Circuit and in the Legal Aid Agency for the District of Columbia led to his involvement with projects studying the law and its relationship to community health services, mental disorders, and juvenile processes.
The Writings File is largely comprised of articles and the research material and drafts for two of Dash's works, Justice Denied: A Challenge to Lord Widgery's Report on “Bloody Sunday” and The Intruders: Unreasonable Searches and Seizures from King John to John Ashcroft. Justice Denied explores the inquiry by the Widgery tribunal into the shooting of twenty-seven civil rights protestors, thirteen of whom died at the scene, in Derry, Northern Ireland, by soldiers of the British First Parachute Regiment on 30 January 1972. Dash's report challenges the findings of the Widgery tribunal which largely exonerated the soldiers of any wrongdoing. Further material related to this incident and Northern Ireland is located in the Organizations and Committees series under the International League for Human Rights. The Intruders, Dash's last book, concerns search and seizure law and the erosion of the protections of the Fourth Amendment and the exclusionary rule supported by articles, book excerpts, and current and historical case law. Dash's 1985 article about his interview with an incarcerated Nelson Mandela is supplemented by material in the General Office File showing Dash's continuing relationship with Mandela and South Africa.
The Teaching File contains syllabi, lecture notes, course outlines, and class lists for courses taught by Dash at Georgetown University Law Center including Criminal Justice, Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure, Legislative Investigations, and Professional Responsibility. Further information on Dash's involvement with Georgetown University and its law school is found in the General Office File and in Organizations and Committees.
The papers are rounded out by General Correspondence comprised of both professional and personal correspondence, the General Office File containing subject files, biographical material, and appointment calendars, and the Speech and Engagement File covering Dash's career from 1961 to 2003. The Grand Jury File (Closed) contains documents removed from the Whitewater Inquiry and Top Secret and Sensitive Compartmented Information files comprised of memoranda removed from the Watergate Affair files.
Correspondence, memoranda, legal briefs and opinions, reports, depositions, exhibits, newspaper clippings, statements, testimony, transcripts, printed matter, notes, drafts, and articles pertaining to consultations or legal cases in which Dash acted as expert witness, ethics consultant, mediator, or lawyer.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, newspaper clippings, statements, testimony, transcripts, depositions, printed matter, and legal briefs pertaining to government investigations in which Dash served as an investigator or consultant.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, financial records, newspaper clippings, notes, drafts, and printed matter.
Course outlines, syllabi, lecture notes, exam questions, surveys, printed matter, articles, clippings, and correspondence.
Correspondence and memoranda.
Correspondence, appointment calendars, biographical material, photographs, clippings, articles, printed matter, subject files, and receipts.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, printed matter, and newspaper clippings.
Articles, books, a play, and poems.
Sealed grand jury material related to the Whitewater Inquiry.
Memorandum.
Memorandum and a monograph.
The papers of Bess Furman (1895-1969) span the period 1728-1967, with the bulk of the material from 1900 to 1966. The collection focuses on the social and political events of the presidential administrations of Herbert Hoover, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, and Dwight D. Eisenhower. Furman's coverage of the activities of prominent women, especially first ladies, is well documented in the papers. The collection is organized in seven series: Diaries, Family Papers, General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The diaries, 1924-1962, chronicle Furman's work as a writer for the Omaha Bee-News, Associated Press, and the New York Times. Her assignments took her from local events and personalities to the national and international scene. The earlier diaries contain personal comments on professional and family life; however, most of the diaries from 1944 to 1961 are comprised of clippings of precis of her articles. The last diary, 1961-1962, is a chronology of her activities at the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
A glimpse of Furman's personal life and Nebraska heritage can be seen in the Family Papers series, which spans the period circa 1728-1967. Material relating to her early forebears, the Winslow family of New Hampshire, includes correspondence, bills and receipts, bonds, deeds for property, and other items, particularly for Bartholomew Winslow and his wife, Hannah. Furman's connections with family are evident in copies of letters home that regularly appeared in the South Side Sentinel of Danbury, Nebraska, published by her father. In these letters Bess recounts her latest adventures "celebrity-chasing," as she called it. Also included in her family correspondence are "not for publication" personal opinions. Additional family material consists of the papers of her husband, journalist Robert Burns Armstrong (1903-1955), reporter for the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, and the St. Louis Globe-Democrat, and their children, Ruth Eleanor Armstrong and Robert Furman Armstrong, Jr.
Lucile N. Furman, Bess Furman's sister, came to live with the Armstrong family and together with Bess started a press and radio consultant and writing service called Furman Features that was used especially by national women's organizations. Material for this venture is available in the Family Papers, Subject File, and Speeches and Writings File. The Furman sisters wrote for such organizations as the Children's Bureau, the American Association of University Women, the League of Women Voters, and the Women's Division of the Democratic National Committee. They also wrote handbooks and campaign fliers for the Democratic National Committee.
The General Correspondence series, 1918-1965, is composed of incoming letters of both a personal and professional nature. They are from longtime family friends, journalists, first ladies, and professional contacts. Prominent correspondents include Bess Streeter Aldrich, Ella F. Auerbach, the Bobbs-Merrill Co., Elizabeth Randolph Shirley Enochs, Edith Benham Helm, Genevieve Forbes Herrick, Frances Parkinson Keys, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., Dorothy McAllister, Mary Margaret McBride, Iantha McCloskey, Myrtle Mason, Anthony Netboy, Ruth Bryan Owen, Rohde, Herbert H. Rogers, Mae Rogers, Eleanor Roosevelt, Malvina Thompson, and Bess Wallace Truman.
The Subject File and Speeches and Writings File include research material, drafts of articles, and related correspondence, with emphasis on Furman's specialization in the areas of education, health, Washington social and political history, the White House, and women in public service.
In the Speeches and Writings File are extensive production materials for Furman's books: Washington By-Line, White House Profile, and A Profile of the United States Public Health Service, 1798-1948. There are also her reporter's notebooks and printed copies of newspaper articles from 1919 to 1960.
In the Miscellany series is a variety of material such as appointment books, clippings, financial papers, and invitations. Of particular interest are scrapbooks compiled by Furman and her family containing correspondence and clippings about her as well as articles written under the pseudonym, Bobbie O'Dare. Also in the series are scrapbooks of articles by Winifred Mallon, a predecessor on the staff of the New York Times, dating from 1903 to 1945. Other writings include manuscripts for books and articles sent to Bess and Lucile N. Furman for editing. Authors represented include Cecil Dickson, Elisabeth Randolph Shirley Enochs, Edith Nourse Rogers, and Fanny Jessop Sherman.
Thirty-six volumes kept by Furman.
Correspondence of family members, condolence letters, birth and death certificates, memorial books, biographical material, financial papers, school papers, and other items.
Letters received and a few letters sent primarily by Furman.
Drafts of articles; research material, including notes, clippings, and printed matter; correspondence; and miscellaneous items.
Printed articles, drafts of articles and books, galley proofs, research material, notebooks, and related correspondence.
Address books, addresses, appointment books, calendars, clippings, financial papers, greeting cards, household papers, invitations, announcements, calling cards, membership cards, memorabilia, notes, scrapbooks, writings by others, and miscellaneous other items.
Scrapbooks and clippings.
The papers of James McKeen Cattell (1860-1944) span the years 1835-1948, with the bulk of the material from 1896 to 1948. The collection consists of correspondence, diaries, speeches, lectures, articles, notes, financial papers, biographical and genealogical material, family papers, clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material. The papers are organized in two parts. Part I is organized in nine series: Journals; General Correspondence; Family Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article, and Book File; Photographs; Miscellany; Printed Matter; and Certificates, Diplomas, Charts, Graphs, and Tables (Oversize). Part II contains five series that complement the first portion: Family Correspondence; General Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article, and Book File; and Miscellany.
The Cattell Papers relate primarily to Cattell's professional affiliations as an educator, university professor, psychologist, and editor and founder of scientific publications and periodicals. Prominent topics include organizations such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Psychological Corporation, American Association of University Professors, Century Club, and Columbia University; and his writings and editorial work for Science, Popular Science Monthly, School and Society, American Naturalist, American Men of Science, and Science Press. An extensive file treats his dismissal from Columbia University in 1917 because of his opposition to conscription in World War I.
The collection is rich in prominent correspondents in the scientific, political, and academic fields. A sampling of significant correspondents includes James Rowland Angell, Charles E. Bessey, Franz Boas, Edwin Garrigues Boring, Nicholas Murray Butler, Otis W. Caldwell, John Dewey, Asaph Hall, W. J. Humphreys, Ellsworth Huntington, William James, Joseph Jastrow, David Starr Jordan, Vernon L. Kellogg, Burton E. Livingston, Jacques Loeb, Arthur O. Lovejoy, Thomas Hunt Morgan, Raymond Pearl, Charles S. Peirce, Carl E. Seashore, Edward L. Thorndike, Edward Titchener, and John B. Watson.
Childhood journals.
Letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence and near-print and typewritten copies of reports and bulletins.
Handwritten, typewritten, near-print, and printed copies of speeches and articles, and page proofs of the book James McKeen Cattell, 1860-1944; Man of Science.
Photographs of the Cattell family and others.
Fragmentary notes, miscellaneous items, newspaper clippings, and memorabilia.
Oversize certificates, diplomas, and research material.
Letters exchanged between members of Cattell's family.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence and related papers.
Literary manuscripts.
Miscellaneous material.
The papers of Edmond Charles Genet (1763-1834) span the years 1734-1895, with the largest concentration of material between 1789 and 1793.
Edmond Genet's brief career as the French Republic's first minister to the United States, and his earlier diplomatic assignments in London and Saint Petersburg, are documented in the first two series of the collection. Genet's early career and education are described in a series of letters from Genet's father, Edme Jacques Genet, and other members of his family, together with draft replies by Genet, dated between 1776 and 1781. Of special interest are several letters of Ralph Izard addressed to Genet, dated 1778-1779, while the latter was chief of the interpreter's bureau at Versailles. Genet's St. Petersburg mission is represented by material in this collection that is not available in the archives at Leningrad. The correspondence series also includes many letters and drafts from officials of the various French ministries, letters relating to the Clinton and Osgood families, and commissions and diplomas, some of which are signed by the kings of France.
Aside from the series of news abstracts prepared by Genet as part of his official duties, a good portion of the remaining notes, drafts, and essays reflect Genet's interest in political theory and scientific research. There also are newspaper clippings, accounts of legation and secret expenses, memoirs by Genet's son, Charles, and miscellaneous papers.
In addition to the above mentioned letters of Edme Jacques Genet and Ralph Izard, the following are prominent correspondents in the collection: George Rogers Clark, DeWitt Clinton, George Clinton, Francis Dana, André Michaux, James Monroe, Charles Gravier, comte de Vergennes, Antoine Raymond Gabriel de Sartine, Jean-Louis- Paul Francois, duc de Noailles, and Alexandre Marie Léonor de Saint-Mauris, Prince de Montbarey.
Letters sent and received, extracts from diplomatic despatches, notes, drafts and other papers of Genet and the Genet family.
Letters sent and received, extracts from diplomatic despatches, notes, drafts and other papers of Genet and the Genet family.
Transcripts of letters to and from Edmond Charles Genet, his father, Edme Jacques Genet, and his son, Charles.
Official instructions and extracts to and from Genet, his father, Edme Genet, and others. Also a small amount of correspondence, copies of diplomatic drafts, maps and notes.
Numerous articles, essays, and notes prepared by Genet with special emphasis on the natural and political sciences. In addition, a compilation of the history of the Genet family (called memoirs) from Edme to Edmond Charles Genet edited by Edmond Charles from notes and drafts left by his father.
Extracts from English newspapers as well as précis of events in Great Britain and America abstracted from newspapers and personal observations.
Newspaper clippings from contemporary newspapers relating to America and its war for independence.
Receipts, declared accounts, and personal and official expense vouchers of Genet and others while he was minister plenipotentiary to the United States. Also a small quantity of expense accounts incurred by secret agents of Genet working in the southeastern United States.
Mainly newspaper clippings, fragments of letters, undated notes, drafts, extracts, and reports.
Passport.
The papers of Harold Foote Gosnell (1896-1997) span the years 1931-1962, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1937-1959. The collection consists of files Gosnell compiled as a political scientist and government consultant.
The Gosnell Papers treat four principal topics. The earliest material is devoted mainly to a study Gosnell headed at the National Resources Committee (NRC), later to become the National Resources Planning Board, in which a survey was made of the future of state and regional planning. Contained in the NRC files are reports, questionnaires, research data, and internal memoranda reflecting the agency’s operation. The material represents Gosnell’s own work as well as the research of students, colleagues, and other officials. Correspondence of NRC's executive officer, Charles W. Eliot (1899-1993), the director of the reorganized National Resources Planning Board from 1939 to 1943, appears throughout the files.
A government study of United States information services during World War II, begun by Gosnell about 1943 when he worked for the War Records Section of the Bureau of the Budget, was continued by him at the State Department. At the budget office, the scope of Gosnell’s research was government-wide with a focus on the activities of the Office of War Information (OWI). At the State Department, where he worked from 1946 to the end of the decade, his project was limited specifically to information services in the department itself. Titled “War Information Services,” research files from both projects are topically arranged in one section. Included are memoranda, reports, budget statements, and other documents from government agencies, as well as administrative correspondence relating to planning the research. Subjects treated include the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, the Office of Price Administration, press and media branches of the OWI, State Department and War Department morale programs, and the Experimental Division for the Study of War Time Communications. Correspondents include Joseph Barnes and Milton Eisenhower, former OWI officers who commented on the research while it was in progress.
Other files contain background data and articles Gosnell wrote on the organization of the State Department and source material he compiled while a foreign elections analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency after 1950. His fact-finding missions best documented in the CIA file are trips to the Philippines (1953, 1955), Indonesia (1955), and Sudan (1958). The file contains correspondence, election ephemera, maps (especially from Sudan), summaries of conversations with political leaders and Americans abroad, and related matter.
The papers of Herbert Benjamin (1900-1983) span the years 1915-2004, with the bulk of the material dating from 1923 to 1982. They are arranged as general correspondence, subject files, writings, and oversize. A large portion of the collection relates to Benjamin’s activities as a member of the Communist Party of the United States of America (CPUSA) from 1921 to 1944, particularly his work as a leader of the organized unemployed movement during the 1930s.
The most detailed information about Herbert Benjamin’s life as a communist in the 1920s and 1930s is in his unfinished autobiography, “Memoirs of an Indelible Red,” filed in the writings section. Benjamin devoted the last decade of his life to writing and rewriting his autobiography. In his drafts, Benjamin described the experiences that led him to join the Industrial Workers of the World and then the Communist Party. He recounts his attendance at the 1922 Communist Party convention in Bridgman, Michigan; his work in Buffalo, Cleveland, and New York, and in Philadelphia, Reading, and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania; his leadership of the first and second National Hunger marches on Washington, D.C., in 1931 and 1932; the work to organize the unemployed during the Depression; and the circumstances which led him to end his public association with the CPUSA. The writings also contain Benjamin’s statements of his political beliefs and personal reassessments over four decades.
Subject files contain records of the organizations in which Benjamin worked on behalf of the unemployed in the 1930s, including the National Unemployment Council, the Unemployed Councils, and the Workers Alliance of America. Files of the CPUSA relate to Benjamin’s nationwide speaking tour in 1940 for the purpose of “party building.” Subject files compiled in later years on people, issues, and current events often include Benjamin’s thoughts on the topics. Files on “Historians” document Benjamin’s contact with historians in the 1970s and his reaction to historical assessments of the organized unemployed movement in the 1930s.
The papers of Edmund Bergler (1899-1962) span the years 1943-1978 and consist largely of Bergler’s letters to Mrs. Walter Charak between 1945 and 1950 in which he discussed his writings as well as hers. Also included are reprints of articles on psychiatric and psychoanalytic subjects published by Bergler between 1943 and 1948.
The papers of the Cornelius Chase Family span the years 1745-1974 with the bulk of the material between 1822 and 1870. The collection consists of family papers, correspondence, a journal, financial material, reports, speeches and writings, genealogical material, drawings, printed matter, and miscellany.
The family papers chiefly reflect the lives of Cornelius Chase (1780-1868) and his son Cornelius Thurston Chase (1819-1870), both of whom were ministers and educators. The collection also features Cornelius Thurston Chase's career as superintendent of public instruction for the state of Florida. Included with the family papers are correspondence and writings of other family members, financial material, and genealogical items.
Also included are records relating to the slave trading activities of E. H. Stokes, Betts and Gregory Company, Browning and Moore Company, Dickerson, Hill, and Company, and Moore and Dawson Company. Material relating to the Confederate States Army consist of documents collected by Cornelius Thurston Chase and includes reports on Confederate hospitals in Virginia and South Carolina, medical contracts with private physicians in Richmond, provision returns, circulars and special orders relating to the Medical Department, lists of deserters, quartermaster reports, reports on prisoners of war and sick and wounded soldiers.
A folder of Jonas King material among the Miscellany includes correspondence and a copy of King's interview with Abraham Lincoln.
The papers of Raymond Clapper (1892-1944) span the years 1908-1962, with the bulk from 1913 to 1944. The collection consists of diaries, letters, memoranda, biographical material, speeches and writings, printed matter, radio scripts, notes, and research and reference material relating primarily to Clapper's career as a journalist. The papers are organized in six series: Personal File; Correspondence; Biographical File; Article, Book, and Speech File; Miscellany; and Reference File. The largest portion is comprised of reference material focusing on the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt, the New Deal, and World War II.
Important in the collection is material relating to Clapper's book, Racketeering in Washington, an account of graft in governmental departments and agencies, and correspondence between Clapper and H. L. Mencken, editor of the American Mercury, in relation to an article by Clapper on prohibition in Washington, D. C., entitled "Happy Days," published in the American Mercury in January 1927.
Prominent topics in the Reference File include political elections between World War I and World War II, journalism during the interwar period, censorship, presidential administrations from Warren G. Harding through Franklin D. Roosevelt, neutrality and foreign relations with Japan and Germany, the Supreme Court, labor, and the New Deal.
Correspondents include Edward W. Barrett, Arthur Capper. George A. Carlin, Herbert David Croly, Charles H. Getts, Roy Wilson Howard, Alfred M. Landon, H. L. Mencken, William Allen White, and Wendell L. Willkie.
Diaries, personal records, promotion file, Gridiron Club material, foreign travel files, and scrapbooks containing notebooks, correspondence, near-print, and printed matter, manuscripts and typescripts of writings, and newspaper clippings.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Correspondence, near-print and printed matter, and newspaper clippings.
Holograph and typewritten drafts and copies of Clapper's newspaper writings, magazine articles, books, and speeches and radio scripts, including related correspondence, clippings, and other material.
Clapper Award winners, memorabilia, near-print and printed matter, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
Correspondence, near-print and printed matter, and newspapers clippings.
The papers of George Gamow (1904-1968) and Barbara Gamow (1905-1976) cover the period 1915 to 1975, but the bulk of the collection originates after 1950. George Gamow's papers, which constitute about two-thirds of the total, are concentrated in the years 1960-1968 and are chiefly scientific and professional. Barbara Gamow's papers consist primarily of personal and literary correspondence from 1928 to 1975. The collection is organized in Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Personal Correspondence of Barbara Gamow, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize series.
Broad in scope, the papers provide source material for biographical studies and for the scientific and intellectual history of the period. Topics treated include theoretical physics, astrophysics, big bang theory, nuclear energy, nuclei, quasistellar objects, genetic coding, RNA coding, and number theory.
Well known in academic fields as a physicist and astronomer, George Gamow was perhaps more widely known to the world at large for his work as a popularizer of scientific literature. In the Speeches and Writings File are examples of both aspects of Gamow's work. There is various material about Mr. Tompkins, the fictitious bank clerk with a scientific curiosity whom Gamow used in his books for lay readers. There are also first drafts of several of his other books, numerous published and unpublished articles, and various original drawings and illustrations for texts. Other drawings for books and for Gamow's personal use are in the Miscellany series.
George Gamow's professional and scientific correspondence as well as the Gamows' social correspondence is in the General Correspondence series. Of especial interest for the scientist or scientific historian is Gamow's correspondence with Ralph Alpher and Robert Herman on the big bang theory, with Charles Critchfield on nuclear energy and nuclei, with Paul Dirac on gravity, with Martynas Yčas on the origination of the genetic code (with specific reference to RNA coding), and also posthumous letters to Gamow from all over the world. There is, however, virtually no correspondence prior to 1950; all discussion of scientific theory is related to developments after that date. This limitation in chronology, as reported by Barbara Gamow in 1964 correspondence with the Library of Congress, is due to George Gamow's tendency to destroy incoming letters once he had answered them and to keep no copies of outgoing correspondence. Many of George Gamow's original letters, as well as photocopies of originals, do exist in the collection, but not in great bulk. Among his significant correspondents are Sir John Cockcroft, Pascal Civici, Albert Einstein, William F. Friedeman and Elizabeth Friedman, J. Allen Hynek, Ronald Mansbridge, Sir Nevill Mott, Ronald Searle, Albert Szent-Györgyi, and Edward Teller.
The Personal Correspondence series consists of letters to and from Barbara Gamow. Married to J. R. de la Torre Bueno, a scholar and editor, from 1938 to 1943, and to George Gamow from 1958 until his death in 1968, she spent most of her career in the publishing business and was acquainted with writers, illustrators, editors, and others in the world of publishing. From 1958 to 1970, much of Barbara Gamow's time was spent editing and translating for her husband and carrying on some of his professional correspondence. Although she herself did not publish any books, she wrote verse for some of George Gamow's books, including Faust; Eine Historie, and she was a prolific letter writer. Copies of her letters are not well represented in the papers, but references in letters received indicate the scope of her writing.
During the early 1930s Barbara Gamow moved in circles that included the poet E. E. Cummings and his wife Marion Morehouse, scholars Edward Niles Hooker and Albert Guerard, filmmakers Stan Brakhage and John Larson, psychologists Evelyn Caldwell Hooker and Bernard Friedlander, and writers Raymong Peckham Holden, James Broughton, Charles Norman, Eda Lord, Sybille Bedford, Frances and Garner James, and Morgan Shepard. Letters from these and others provide source material for biographical studies of the correspondents and their acquaintances. Detailed letters over many years cover periods of youth, careers, and retirement. For the later years, there is material relating to old age, some aspects of the psychology of women, and discussions on parapsychology.
The Addition consists of George Gamow's correspondence with Martynas Yčas about the biological code and with Robert Herman about cosmology, arithmetic, and the big bang theory. Also included are letters by Gamow related to the works of Immanuel Velikovsky and other letters from Peter Brosche.
Correspondence with members of the Gamow and Perkins families.
Letters received and some copies of letters sent, telegrams, postcards, and other enclosures.
Letters received and some copies of letters sent, with attachments, literary material, drawings, and related material.
Books and articles in manuscript, typescript, galley, and printed form, including some correspondence, reviews, and related material, and speeches and book reviews.
Newspaper clippings, printed matter, scrapbooks, correspondence, miscellaneous personal records, notes, drawings, greeting cards, book reviews, and other material.
Letters received and mostly copies of letters sent by George Gamow.
Awards and certificates, illustrations, miscellaneous drawings, photography album, and other oversize items.
The papers of Juan Ramón Jiménez (1881-1958) span the years 1901-1954. The papers are in Spanish and consist of letters, postcards, and poems written to Jiménez or his wife, Zenobia Camprubí de Jiménez, by such Spanish poets as Azorín, Rubén Darío, Antonio Machado, Alfonso Reyes, and Miguel de Unamuno. The largest number of poems and letters are by Rubén Darío.
The papers of Samuel Hay Kauffmann (1829-1906) span the years 1871-1896 and pertain primarily to his research on equestrian statues. Items include correspondence, research notes, printed matter, and drafts of a paper on the subject that Kauffmann delivered before the Literary Society of Washington. Correspondents include Joseph Alexis Bailly, Truman Howe Bartlett, Benj French & Co., and Joesph Edgar Boehm.
The papers of Francis Bowler Keene (1856-1945) span the years 1856-1975, with the bulk of the collection concentrated in the period 1877-1924. The collection is organized into eight series: Diary and Account Book, Personal Correspondence, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Subject File, Writings, Miscellany, and Oversize. Included are literary manuscripts, genealogical material, an autograph collection, and miscellaneous items such as printed matter, scrapbooks, presidential appointments, certificates, a chart, and memorial.
The collection focuses on Keene’s long career as a consular officer at Florence, Italy, Geneva and Zurich, Switzerland, and as consul general at Rome. The papers reflect Keene’s deep concern and conscientiousness in performing the duties of a consular officer. His mastery of French, German, and Italian was especially helpful during World War I, when many Americans were stranded in Europe and required the services of an experienced consular officer, particularly in Switzerland.
Keene’s papers relating to personal and family affairs also form a portion of the collection. His letters to his father, David Keene, while he attended Racine College in Wisconsin and Harvard University, reveal a close relationship between father and son. The letters later written to his wife and two daughters allow a brief insight into his immediate family relationships.
A few of the papers reflect on his contribution to the field of golf, for which he was known as “Laureate of the Links” in Europe as well as in America.
Keene’s principal correspondents include Robert Bacon, Poultney Bigelow, Henry Breckinridge, Wilbur J. Carr, Eugene S. Elliott, Curtis Guild, Elizabeth Hackett, Warren G. Harding, John Hay, Philander C. Knox, Robert M. La Follette, Francis B. Loomis, William Woodville Rockhill, Theodore Roosevelt, Elihu Root, John C. Spooner, Pleasant A. Stovall, William H. Taft, Frederick Jackson Turner, Henry Watterson, Leonard Wood, and John Woodbury.
Diary notes and account book kept by Keene while he was guardian of his uncle, Edgar Keene.
Letterpress book containing impressions of holographic and typescript letters.
Letters and related and attached material to and from family members.
Letters and attached and related material.
Genealogical material and autographs.
Biographical sketches, poems, essays, short stories, and other writings.
Passports, printed matter, and scrapbooks.
Diplomas, appointments, certificates, charts, and memorials.
The papers of John Keep (1781-1870) span the years 1781-1929, with the bulk of the material dating from 1839-1847. The papers include a typescript copy by great granddaughter Helen E. Keep of Keep's autobiography, a brass plate portrait of Keep, newspaper clippings, typescript notes relating to Keep and William Dawes, a record book of subscriptions for the purchase of the Cleveland American and for the publication of a Liberty Party paper in Cleveland, Ohio, speeches about slavery by Keep and Owen Lovejoy, a family Bible containing genealogical information, and photostatic, typescript, and original correspondence. Correspondents include Levi Burnell, William Lloyd Garrison, and John Hiram Osborn.
The papers of Eugenio María de Hostos (1839-1903) and Eugenio Carlos de Hostos (1879-1959) span the years 1865-1990, with the bulk of the material dating from 1870 to 1959. The papers are primarily in Spanish, but also in English and French, and are organized in two series, one dedicated to the father, Eugenio María de Hostos, and the other for the papers of the son, Eugenio Carlos de Hostos.
Eugenio María de Hostos was a Puerto Rican nationalist, writer, educator, and reformer. Born in Puerto Rico and educated in Spain, he also lived at times in the Dominican Republic, Chile, and New York City, moving frequently throughout his life depending on changing political circumstances. He was dedicated to the goal of an independent Puerto Rico, first from Spain and later from the United States, and the formation of a union of Antillean states to include Puerto Rico, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic. His papers contain correspondence with Caribbean nationalists such as Ramón Emeterio Betances and Gregorio Luperón as well as with various political organizations. Also included are family correspondence, microfilm of a diary, photographs, writings, and other papers. The news clippings, primarily published after his death, celebrate de Hostos’s legacy.
Eugenio Carlos de Hostos was the son of Eugenio María de Hostos. After a military education in Chile, the younger de Hostos became an officer in the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry. This regiment had begun under Spanish rule and was incorporated into the U.S. Army after the Spanish-American War of 1898. In 1920 the name of the regiment became the 65th Regiment, U.S. Infantry. During World War I, the regiment was assigned to Panama to guard the canal against possible German attack. Material in the Porto Rico Regiment of Infantry file contains items relating to the military service of de Hostos and to his regiment in general, including correspondence, orders, news clippings, and photographs. De Hostos’s military career included work for the Army Intelligence Service traveling undercover in Colombia, Guatelama, and Panama to identify German activities in those countries during the war. His confidential reports are in this file, along with correspondence with Luis Muñoz Rivera, Puerto Rico’s resident commissioner in Washington, D.C.
In 1935, Eugenio Carlos de Hostos and his wife Mignon purchased an old castle and the surrounding estate in Sotomayor, Pontevedra, in the northwest corner of Spain, which would be their home for the remainder of their lives. The Sotomayor file documents management of the castle and in particular the restoration work the de Hostoses undertook. Also included are items concerning civilian life during the Spanish Civil War.
A large part of the Eugenio Carlos de Hostos series is composed of family papers. The file contains primarily correspondence, but also includes photographs, news clippings, and miscellaneous papers. Both de Hostos and his wife corresponded regularly with their far-flung families living in the Dominican Republic, England, New York City, Puerto Rico, and Spain.
The rest of the series includes files on Eugenio Carlos de Hostos’ writings and editorial projects, mostly concerning the life and writings of his father, a file from his work as a representative of the Curtiss-Wright Export Corp in Spain in the mid-1930s, biographical material, photographs, and general correspondence. Notable correspondents include Juan Bosch and Federico Henríquez i Carvajal.
Additional material in the Eugenio Carlos de Hostos series includes correspondence, lists of catalogued books, family papers, financial records, legal papers, photographs, postcards, and Spanish ration books dating from 1943. Family papers consist of correspondence among de Hostos, MacCormick, and Noble family members, Sara de Hostos' school excercise books, and several diaries of Josefa "Mignon" de Hostos MacCormick. The financial records include documents submitted to various Spanish government agencies, bills and receipts, insurance policies, and bank records. Photographs document the 1958 wedding of Gloria de Alvear y de Hostos, granddaughter of Eugenio Carlos, and the 1939 centennial commemoration of the birth of Eugenio María de Hostos in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Correspondence, diary, financial records, news clippings, printed matter, photographs, and writings.
Correspondence, family papers, financial records, legal papers, identification and travel documents, news clippings, photographs, and writings.
The papers of Alfred Edward Housman (1859-1936) span the years 1906-1940 and consist largely of drafts of poems, containing numerous corrections and alterations, most of which appeared in A Shropshire Lad (1896), Last Poems (1922), and More Poems (1936). The bulk of the collection is contained in seven volumes or notebooks and consists of rough drafts, later drafts, fair copies, and fragments of the poet’s writings. An introductory volume contains a foreword and indexes to the other notebooks.
An addition to the collection contains photocopies of the published works noted above. The originals of the published volumes, part of a Housman collection at the Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, were annotated by John W. Carter in 1939 with readings from the original manuscripts as transcribed from the notebooks. A considerable number of these readings are no longer visible in the manuscripts themselves, and as such, the photocopies represent an important supplement to the notebooks.
Also in the addition is a photocopy of an analysis of the poems in the notebooks, prepared by Carter and accompanied by a photocopy of an index to the original arrangement of the notebooks. Other material in the addition includes a small number of correspondence and miscellaneous items.
The papers of Amos Kendall (1789-1869) span the years 1835-1909, with the bulk from 1835 to 1880. The collection consists of correspondence and other papers relating primarily to Kendall's work on behalf of Cherokee claims and treaties and to the Magnetic Telegraph Company, of which he was president. Correspondents include Andrew Jackson, James McLaughlin, William L. Marcy, Samuel Finley Breese Morse, and William Wilkins. Includes biographical material relating to Andrew Jackson.
The papers of Bertram David Lewin (1896-1971) span the years 1883-1974, with the bulk of the material dating from 1927 to 1970. The collection documents Lewin's contributions to psychoanalysis in the United States through his writings, teaching, and involvement in various psychoanalytic organizations. The papers consist of correspondence, diaries, biographical data, reports, surveys, speeches and writings, school papers, certificates, legal documents, and photographs. The collection is organized into five series: Family and School Papers, General Correspondence, Subject File, Writings File, and Oversize.
Lewin was born in 1896 in Victoria, Texas, the son of Samuel Lewin, a German immigrant, and Justine Levy, a Texas native. Following his 1916 graduation from the University of Texas in Austin, Lewin enrolled in Johns Hopkins University Medical School in Baltimore, Maryland, where he studied with psychiatrist Adolf Meyer. Lewin received his medical degree in 1920 and, after completing his residency in Baltimore, worked for several years with Charles B. Dunlap at the New York Psychiatric Institute on Ward's Island. Like many early students of psychoanalysis, Lewin spent several years in Europe attending classes, working on supervised cases, and undergoing analysis. During his time in Europe between 1926 and 1927, Lewin worked first with Paul Schuster in the Friedrich Wilhelm Krankenhaus and later attended the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute. In 1927 Lewin returned to New York where he established a practice in psychiatry and psychoanalysis.
Upon his return to the United States, Lewin became active in several psychoanalytic institutions. In 1931 Lewin became one of the founders of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, whose curriculum was closely modeled on that of the Berlin Psychoanalytic Institute. A year later, he established the Psychoanalytic Quarterly with Gregory Zilboorg, Franwood E. Williams, and Dorian Feigenbaum. Lewin remained on the periodical's editorial board until his death in 1971. Lewin served as president of the New York Psychoanalytic Society from 1936 to 1937 and of the American Psychoanalytic Association from 1946 to 1947.
Many of Lewin's writings became standard psychoanalytic texts. His early works focus on compulsive character, the body as phallus, claustrophobia, and hypomania. Later writings deal particularly with the psychology of dreams and elation. Fluent in German and Spanish, Lewin also translated works by Franz Alexander, Karl Abraham, Otto Fenichel, and Angel Garma. In 1955 he accepted the directorship of the American Psychoanalytic Association's survey of psychoanalytic education. Lewin and Helen Ross, the project's associate director, published their findings in Psychoanalytic Education in the United States in 1960. Mixed reaction to the way in which the survey was conducted and to its final report led to Lewin and Ross's resignations in 1961. For the next ten years, until his death in 1971, Lewin taught psychology and psychoanalysis at the University of Pittsburgh.
The Family and School Papers include family correspondence, legal documents, and genealogical information. Among the earliest material is an autograph book kept by Lewin's mother, Justine Levy, between 1883 and 1888, and a set of diaries and photographs recording a trip taken by Lewin and his parents to Europe in 1910. The series also contains student papers, including class notes and other material, from Lewin's undergraduate work at the University of Texas and medical studies at Johns Hopkins University. This latter material includes notes from Adolf Meyer's psychology class. Although little material exists in this series from Lewin's years in Berlin, a letter written in 1926 to Lewin's mother-in-law, Irma Benjamin, contains an account of a visit paid by Lewin and his wife to the Freud family.
The General Correspondence series traces developments in psychoanalytic theory and practice from the mid-1920s to 1970. Correspondence contains lively exchanges with colleagues, including August Aichhorn, Catherine Bacon, K. R. Eissler, Otto Fenichel, Anna Freud, Maxwell Gitelson, Ives Hendrick, Ernest Jones, Edith Jacobson, Marion E. Kenworthy, Karl A. Menninger, Adolf Meyer, Herman Nunberg, Hanns Sachs, Max Schur, James Strachey, Robert Waelder, and Fritz Wittels, among others. Lewin's correspondence also includes letters from Felix Frankfurter concerning efforts to aid European psychoanalysts in Axis countries during the 1930s, a letter from novelist Thornton Wilder discussing The Ides of March, and correspondence with Texas politician Maury Maverick.
The Subject File largely concerns Lewin's involvement in various psychoanalytic organizations. Lewin's directorship of and eventual resignation from the American Psychoanalytic Association survey of psychoanalytic education project is documented by correspondence, minutes, recommendations, and reports. The series also contains files from Lewin's association with the University of Pittsburgh Medical School during the last decade of his life. Other activities covered in the Subject File include efforts to secure Edith Jacobson's release after her arrest by the Gestapo in 1936, Lewin's psychological evaluation of German prisoners of war in 1945, and his chairmanship of the American Psychoanalytic Association's Freud centenary celebrations in 1956. Posthumous files contain writings by Jacob A. Arlow, Lawrence S. Kubie, and Jerry O'Mara on Lewin's life and contributions to psychoanalysis.
The Writings File includes manuscripts, printed copies, and research material from Lewin's articles, lectures, books, reviews, and poetry. Topics covered include Lewin's research on dreams, elation, compulsive behavior, and psychoanalytic education. The series includes a long run of correspondence concerning Lewin's dream screen theories, as well as manuscripts and publishers' correspondence regarding The Image and the Past and Lewin's translation of Karl Abraham's On Character and Libido Development. Writings by various colleagues complete the series.
Correspondence and subject files, including diaries, legal documents, genealogical matter, biographical data, photographs, various student papers, school and university memorabilia, and miscellaneous material.
Letters sent and received by Lewin, with attached and related matter.
Correspondence, reports, various papers and legal matter, surveys, lists, research data, photographs, and other material relating to Lewin's personal and professional activities.
Manuscripts of articles, books, lectures, speeches, presentations, reviews, and poetry, including drafts, notes, galleys, microfilm, and printed copies, and related correspondence, bibliographic material, and research information.
Oversize material consisting of a diploma, certificate, and photographs.
The papers of Robert Lansing (1864-1928) span the years 1831-1935 with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1914-1920. The collection chiefly concerns his service as counsellor for the Department of State (1914-1915) and as secretary of state (1915-1920). It focuses on World War I, Lansing's participation in the American commission to negotiate peace at Paris and the gradual rift between him and President Woodrow Wilson which eventually culminated in his resignation in 1920, the Lusitania affair, the Mexican crisis, the arming of merchantmen, the Irish rebellion, the purchase of the Danish West Indies, relations with Japan and China, and Latin America and the proposed Pan American Pact. Papers of a personal nature concern Lansing's participation in private legal cases involving international law and his activity in domestic politics. The collection is divided into seven series; Chronological File, Private Memoranda, Desk Diaries and Notes, Correspondence, North Atlantic Coast Fisheries, Speeches and Writings, and Scrapbooks.
The Chronological File includes the bulk of Lansing's correspondence as well as memoranda, reports, and other material. The Private Memoranda includes personal accounts of cabinet meetings, character sketches and impressions of men with whom he dealt, and detailed descriptions of the peace conference negotiations in 1919. The Desk Diaries contain notations on Lansing's activities and during periods when he was abroad contain more descriptive and personal entries. The Correspondence series supplements the Chronological File and primarily consists of his letters with Frederick M. Boyer, Miscellaneous correspondence includes some family letters as well as important letters from important individuals. The North Atlantic Coast Fisheries series relates to Lansing's arbitration at the Hague in 1910. The Speeches and Writings contains two drafts of books including War Memoirs of Robert Lansing, which contains material not contained in the published edition as well as speeches and miscellaneous writings. The Scrapbooks cover a wide range of Lansing's activities including his marriage and articles written about him after his death.
Significant correspondents in the papers include Chandler P. Anderson, William Jennings Bryan, James Bryce Bryce, John W. Davis, J. M. Dickinson, Allen Welsh Dulles, John Foster Dulles, Abram I. Elkus, John Watson Foster, Paul Fuller, James Watson Gerard, John Grier Hibben, Cone Johnson, J. J. Jusserand, V. K. Wellington Koo, Franklin K. Lane, Henry Cabot Lodge, Wayne MacVeagh, Thomas R. Marshall, Alexander Meiklejohn, John Bassett Moore, Henry Morgenthau, William Phillips, Frank L. Polk, L. S. Rowe, Elihu Root, James Brown Scott, Edward North Smith, William Joel Stone, Seymour Van Santvoord, Brand Whitlock, Woodrow Wilson, and Lester Hood Woolsey.
Bound volumes containing correspondence, memoranda, reports, resolutions, and other material.
Original and typescript copies of Lansing's personal memoranda and notes.
Bound volumes containing notations and descriptions of days' proceedings.
Correspondence and other material.
Printed and near-print volumes relating to the North Atlantic Fisheries Arbitration at The Hague.
Book manuscripts, speeches, and other material.
See Oversize.
Scrapbooks containing newspaper clippings, programs, letters, invitations, and other material.
The papers of Horace Capron (1804-1885) span the years 1834-1961, with the bulk of the material, dating from 1871 to 1875, relating to his experiences as an agricultural adviser to the Japanese government. Capron was given authority to develop the island of Hokkaido, on the northern perimeter of the Japanese Empire, at the time an economic and agricultural frontier. The collection contains journals, correspondence, financial records, maps, and orders for agricultural equipment, livestock, and plants that reflect an early experiment in government planning in agriculture and international cooperation. The papers are in English and Japanese.
Some material relates to Capron's service with the Union army during the Civil War and his work in the 1870s as commissioner of agriculture. The correspondence includes a few letters of Ulysses S. Grant, William T. Sherman, and Horace Greeley.
Also in the collection is correspondence of other members of the Capron family, a handwritten autobiography by Horace Capron, and biographical information.
The papers of Caleb Henry Carlton (1836-1923) span the years 1831-1954, with the bulk of the material from 1844 to 1916. The collection includes notebooks, diaries, family and general correspondence, military papers, financial records, maps and charts, articles by Carlton, and a biography and some letters by his daughter, Mabel Carlton Horner.
The correspondence, diaries, and military papers reveal the life of a cavalry officer in the Civil War and the American Indian wars that followed. During the Civil War, Carlton commanded troops under fire in the Peninsular campaign and at the battles of Yorktown, Mechanicsville, Malvern Hill, and Harrison's Landing. During the Battle of Chickamauga, Carlton and his men were ordered to perform rear-guard action and were captured. After spending five months in Libby Prison, in Richmond, he was exchanged in September 1863. During the Atlanta Campaign, Carlton saw action in the battles of Kennesaw Mountain, Marietta, and Jonesboro. Included in his military papers are documents contemporary to the war as well as recollections of battlefield movements and related matter that he compiled and received after the events.
After the Civil War, Carlton was active in the Plains Wars, including service at Fort Sidney, Nebraska; Camp Auger, Wyoming; Fort Fetterman, Wyoming; Fort Laramie, Wyoming; Fort Washakie, Wyoming; and Fort Sedgwick, Colorado. Diaries and other files document government relations and war with Apache, Cheyenne, Dakota, Ute, and other Native American groups.
Prominent among the correspondents are Generals Thomas John Wood, Henry C. Cook, William T. Sherman, and Matthew H. Wright.
The papers of William Walden Rubey (1898-1974) span the years 1915-1974, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1951-1971. The collection primarily documents Rubey's career with the United States Geological Survey, his consultant work on various geological projects, and his activities as a member of professional, scientific and educational organizations. Also included are materials relating to Rubey's technical speeches and writings in the earth sciences field. The collection is divided into the following series: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, and Oversize.
The General Correspondence series, 1921-1974, primarily contains incoming and outgoing correspondence between Rubey and associates involved in the earth science fields. Much of the earlier correspondence relates to his work as a geologist for the United States Geological Survey and includes letters written and received while Rubey was performing geological field work in areas of the Midwest, Southwest, the northern Great Plains, and the northern Rocky Mountains. Later correspondence primarily pertains to his involvement with numerous scientific and educational associations and his interest in the research and writings of colleagues.
The Speeches and Writings series, 1923-1974, is mostly comprised of research notes, drafts, correspondence, final copies, printed versions, and other related materials pertaining to Rubey's articles, book reviews and introductions, speeches, and reports. Research notes in this series are highly technical and often contain complex mathematical and scientific formulations. The series features many of Rubey's ground-breaking articles, along with related correspondence, illustrative materials, and research notes. Included are materials pertaining to such seminal works as “The Geologic History of Sea Water,” “The Development of the Hydrosphere and Atmosphere,” and the controversial “Role of Fluid Pressure in the Mechanics of Overthrust Faulting.” Co-authored with M. King Hubbert, the latter article was the cause of much dissension in the geological field. Letters from colleagues in this file primarily pertain to the validity of Rubey and Hubbert's fluid pressure hypothesis. The authors' replies to published discussions and critiques of their theory are also found in this series.
The Subject File, 1915-1974, is comprised of correspondence, memoranda, reports, newspaper clippings, press releases, printed matter, geological maps, research notes, and other materials relating to Rubey's professional activities as a geologist. Although the series contains extensive files pertaining to projects Rubey conducted for the United States Geological Survey, complete documentation of his Survey career as a whole is lacking. Notable files include records documenting his work in standardizing the nomenclature and symbols used for defining carbonaceous and stratigraphic materials, several projects that took place in the western states, and various geological mapping projects. Other significant files relate to Rubey's work with the Survey's Strategic Minerals Program, in which he was charged with supervising surveys for vanadium, an important ore used by steel manufacturers during World War II as a steel hardener.
Also contained in the Subject File are correspondence, memoranda, and reports pertaining to Rubey's work as a member of many professional, educational, and scientific organizations. Included are correspondence, memoranda, and reports documenting his efforts in the Mohole project, a joint effort in the 1960s between the National Science Foundation and the United States government to obtain a complete core record of the layers of the earth's crust and the upper part of the underlying mantle. The project was later discontinued by Congress due to dissension between scientists and government representatives over the administration of the project, congressional charges of political influence and irregularities in the awarding of the engineering contract, and other factors. Correspondence in this file contains Rubey's candid impressions of what he felt were the root causes of the project's failure.
Other significant files pertain to Rubey's role in establishing the Lunar Science Institute, his work as a member of the Geological Society of America's Committee on the War Effort, which made recommendations to the army on the strategic employment of geologists in the battlefield during World War II, and his efforts in conjunction with the United States Army Corps of Engineers to determine the cause of a series of earthquakes plaguing the Denver, Colorado, area.
Frequent correspondents include Henry R. Aldrich, M. King Hubbert, Chester R. Longwell, and Steven S. Oriel.
Incoming and outgoing correspondence with attachments between Rubey and friends, colleagues, and organizations.
Manuscripts in various stages of preparation, including notes, correspondence, illustrative materials, drafts, final copies, and printed versions of articles, book reviews, book introductions, miscellaneous writings, critiques of manuscripts written by colleagues, reports, and speeches.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, press releases, minutes of meetings, newspaper clippings, maps, photographs, and printed matter pertaining to Rubey's activities as a geologist for the United States Geological Survey and as a member of various scientific, professional, and educational organizations.
Graphs concerning earthquakes and well-head pressure in Colorado.
The papers of Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain (1828-1914) span the years 1775-1913, with the bulk from 1828 to 1913. The collection consists of correspondence, biographical notes, record books, military reports, speeches, accounts of engagements of the Army of the Potomac, and other material mostly concerning the Civil War. Included are reports of Company G, 20th Maine Volunteers, and Chamberlain's account of the battle of Gettysburg. There are letters relating to the state militia in Maine, military reunions, and data for a history of the 5th United States Army Corps in which Chamberlain served as a colonel of the 20th Maine Regiment.
Prominent correspondents include John Marshall Brown, Henry S. Burrage, Selden Connor, Charles Hamlin, O. O. Howard, Carswell McClellan, Horace Binney Sargent, William Henry Seward, Gouverneur Kemble Warren, and Cyrus Woodman.
The papers of George Middleton (1880-1967) span the years 1872-1970 with the bulk of the material between 1911 and 1958. The collection is composed of correspondence and literary manuscripts organized into the following series: Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Business Correspondence, Subject File, Literary Manuscripts, Miscellany, and Addition. The material is in English, with some in French.
The Family Correspondence consists of letters written to his wife, Fola La Follette, and to his brother, nephew, and his wife's family about the many activities, places, and people he was involved with as a playwright and as a representative of the writing profession abroad. Events relating to the 1924 presidential campaign of Robert M. La Follette (1855-1925) are also chronicled in Middleton's correspondence with his wife and the La Follette family.
The General Correspondence contains letters from a broad segment of the theatrical, literary, and governmental communities. Among the correspondents are J. M. Barrie, Cecil B. DeMille, Eleanora Duse, Moss Hart, George S. Kaufman, Richard Rodgers, and Peggy Wood from the theatrical community; John Dos Passos, Anatole France, Hamlin Garland, Sinclair Lewis, Percy Mackaye, Don Marquis, John Masefield, Edgar Lee Masters, H. L. Mencken, Clifford Odets, Eugene O'Neill, Bernard Shaw, Lincoln Steffens, Booth Tarkington, and P. G. Wodehouse from the literary community; and Louis Dembitz Brandeis, Felix Frankfurter, David Eli Lilienthal, Gerald P. Nye, and Franklin D. Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt in the governmental community.
The Business Correspondence documents the publication and production of Middleton's plays and articles, his collaboration with David Belasco and Guy Bolton, and his relationship with various agents, producers, and managers.
Of particular interest in the Subject File are papers relating to the Dramatists Guild, of which Middleton was a founding member, and the fight to protect foreign and domestic playwrights' monetary and literary rights in the production and publication of their works. Middleton's service as a copyright specialist in the Justice Department is documented under the headings "Office of Alien Property," "copyright legislation," and "copyrights." Middleton's social relationships with the theatrical community are documented in files relating to the Dutch Treat Club and to Players Club. Important biographical information about Middleton is contained in the "Who's Who" file.
The Literary Manuscripts series contains succeeding drafts, as well as final typescripts or printed versions, of all of Middleton's plays and of his autobiography, These Things Are Mine. In many cases photographs of stage sets and actors and actresses accompany the manuscripts. A large part of the autobiographical material consists of research material and family memorabilia that Middleton collected for his writings. Film scripts on which Middleton worked while a producer-writer with the Fox Film Corporation in 1929-1931 are also included. In addition to his books and plays, the series also documents Middleton's articles, book reviews, early literary writings, lectures, poetry, and stories.
The remainder of the collection consists of family photographs, miscellaneous papers, a card index that Middleton keyed to his correspondence, and his collection of Balzaciana. Scrapbooks include articles written by Middleton on the theater for various newspapers and journals, press reviews, publicity and programs for his plays, and letters of congratulations on his eightieth birthday.
An addition appended to the original arrangement in 1979 spans the period 1879-1970, with the major part dating from 1953 to 1967. Correspondence of George Middleton and Fola La Follette with members of the Middleton and La Follette families is included in the Addition, as is Middleton's correspondence with various friends and associates. This material supplements that found in corresponding series in the main body of the collection.
Much of the material in the headings grouped under the subject file and miscellany subseries of the Addition relates to topics of a personal or family interest. Correspondence and printed matter pertaining to Middleton's involvement in theatrical and literary organizations such as the Dramatists Guild and the Authors League of America are also included.
Carbon copies of typescripts of poems are contained under the speeches and writings heading, as is a final typescript of Middleton's unpublished novel, "A Prisoner of Fame."
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, printed material, photographs, newspaper clippings, and other material relating to the correspondent.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, contracts and copyright records, programs and publicity for plays, notes, printed material, and newspaper clippings.
Correspondence, reports, memoranda, manuscripts, printed matter, newspaper clippings, drafts of writings, contracts, certificates of award, and bound volumes.
Notes, scenarios, drafts, manuscripts, typescripts reviewer's copies, printed material, correspondence, newspaper clippings and magazine articles, notebooks, photographs, contracts, and programs.
Photographs, articles and newspaper clippings, notes, printed material and memorabilia, card index, diplomas, and scrapbooks.
Letters received from and copies of letters sent to family members, friends and associates, printed matter, financial records, newspaper clippings, literary typescripts, and notebooks.
The papers of Harlan Fiske Stone (1872-1946) span the period 1889-1953, but most of the papers are dated 1925-1946 when Stone served on the Supreme Court of the United States. The collection consists of Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Special Correspondence, Subject File, Supreme Court File, and Miscellany series.
Stone's Family Correspondence consists chiefly of letters exchanged between Stone and his brother Lauson, sister Helen, and sons Marshall and Lauson. Very few letters in the collection are between Stone and his wife, Agnes. Although Stone occasionally mentioned the Supreme Court or other issues of the day, the letters in this series are mainly concerned with personal and family matters.
The General Correspondence covers a broader range. It contains letters of recommendation supporting friends for various positions, Stone's comments on the large number of addresses and articles sent him by others in the legal profession, and discussions of court matters, the judicial process, legal education, and related subjects. His correspondence with Felix Frankfurter and John Bassett Moore is voluminous and relates mainly to legal affairs. Other correspondents in this series include Charles C. Burlingham, Nicholas Murray Butler, Sterling Carr, John Foster Dulles, Learned Hand, Herbert Hoover, Luther Ely Smith, Young Berryman Smith, and George Sutherland. The earliest letters in the collection are from Stone's high school teachers, Jessamine Dixon and Edith Field, in 1889-1892, and concern the course of his future education after being dismissed from Massachusetts Agricultural College.
In the Special Correspondence series are congratulatory messages that Stone received on his appointments as attorney general, associate justice, and chief justice, as well as the condolences received by the family after his death. In addition to the telegrams and rather perfunctory messages, there are communications commending Stone for his conduct in the various public offices he held, especially for his statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee in 1925 concerning his involvement in the prosecution of Senator Burton K. Wheeler of Montana.
Stone's varied interests and activities are reflected in the Subject File. His long service as a trustee of Amherst College and as a chairman of its committee on the Folger Shakespeare Library, and his abiding interest in these situations, are well documented. He also served as chairman of the board of trustees of the National Gallery of Art and as chancellor of the Smithsonian Institution; files on these institutions are also in this series. The Columbia University Law School material, which dates from 1899 to 1923, reflects Stone's connection with that institution, first as a teacher and later as dean. His interest in legal education is also reflected in the files on the American Law Institute and various bar associations. Other significant files in this series include those relating to Stone's efforts in appointing new U.S. attorneys during his tenure as attorney general.
The Supreme Court File, which contains correspondence, near-print and printed matter, and clippings, is divided into three subseries: Case Files, Correspondence, and General Office Files.
The Case files, which make up the largest part of the Supreme Court File, constitute a record of Stone's written opinions, concurrences, and dissents for his years on the court from the 1924 through 1945 terms. The cases are arranged chronologically by term and alphabetically therein by case name. The first folder of the case files contains a memorandum prepared by Stone's secretary explaining the color codes on the folder labels. Contained in the case files are printed drafts of opinions, memoranda on individual cases, and notes exchanged by the justices on the cases. The printed drafts of Stone's opinions that he circulated among the other justices (known as “returns”) often contain their comments on the back.
The Correspondence in the Supreme Court File is organized in two parts: correspondence with other justices and correspondence with attorneys and petitioners. The correspondence with other justices covers the years they served on the court with Stone; correspondence prior to this is located in the General Correspondence series. The justices' correspondence is arranged alphabetically by name and then chronologically. Files for William O. Douglas, Felix Frankfurter, Charles Evans Hughes, and Owen J. Roberts contain the largest amounts of correspondence. Stone's correspondence with attorneys and petitioners regarding cases before the court is arranged chronologically, and involves in the main procedural matters such as requests for extensions of filing deadlines. Also included is material concerning affairs of the Second Circuit to which Stone was assigned.
The General Office File subseries is arranged alphabetically by subject and contains correspondence with court officers such as the clerk and the reporter regarding administrative matters. The file also contains newspaper clippings and correspondence with the public concerning the court's procedures and decisions. Examples include clippings and letters sent to Stone supporting his dissent in the flag salute case of 1940 (Minnersville School District v. Gobitis).
Included in the Miscellany series are letters to Alpheus T. Mason, Stone's biographer, containing reminiscences of Stone by Irving N. Brant, Mabel Walker Williebrandt, and others, and clippings relating to Stone's life and a copy of a letter of 1907 by Theodore Roosevelt in which he defends his judicial appointments. Other material confirms Stone's reputation as a wine connoisseur.
Letters received and copies of letters sent between family members, together with other family papers.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, and miscellaneous enclosures.
Congratulatory messages received on his appointment as Attorney General, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, and Chief Justice of the United States, and condelences on Stones's death.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, memoranda, drafts of writings, reports, and near-print and printed material pertianing to cases in which Stone was actively involed.
Notes, opinions, correspondence, and other material pertaining to cases in which Stone was actively involved. Names of cases have been copied directly from the folder labels set up by Justice Stone's office. Case files indicated as "empty" were received in that state and have been maintained in the Case File series to provide a complete listing of the files. See explanation of folder labels in Container 52.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, memoranda, and other material, divided into two groups-correspondence with other Justices, arranged alphabetically by correspondent, and correspondence with attorneys and petitioners. Arranged chronologically.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, and near-print and printed material relating to administrative and other details of Stone's work as a Supreme Court Justice.
Biographer's papers, greeting cards, notes, speeches and writings, menus, certificates, clippings, printed matter, and other material.
The papers of Elisha Hunt Allen (1804-1883) span the years 1849-1934, with the bulk of the material dating from 1867 to 1882. The papers consist of correspondence, speeches and writings, notes, awards and diplomas, invitations, passports, photographs, statistical tables, printed matter, and miscellaneous items and are organized into the following series: Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Hawaiian Legation Correspondence, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Family Correspondence contains letters from Allen to his second wife, Mary Hobbs Allen, and a few letters to other members of the Allen family. Correspondents in the General Correspondence include Charles Reed Bishop, W. L. Green, Charles Coffin Harris, Henry W. Severance, and Andrew Welch. The Hawaiian Legation Correspondence contains drafts and a letterbook of official letters sent from the Hawaiian Legation. Subjects of interest covered in the several correspondence series as well as in the Subject File and Miscellany include the United States-Hawaiian Reciprocity Treaty of 1876, the Hawaiian supreme court, sugar plantations and trade, Chinese labor, and Hawaiian economic and political conditions from 1850 to 1882.
Letters from Allen to family members including his second wife, Mary Hobbs Allen.
Correspondence and miscellaneous items.
Letters sent and received and letterbook.
Treaties, trade records, and miscellaneous items.
Invitations, passports, photographs, speeches and writings, statistical tables, and printed matter.
Commissions, statistical tables, and letters of credence
The papers of Frank Maloy Anderson (1871-1961) span the years circa 1895-circa 1961 and consist of correspondence, memorabilia, and an extensive file of research notes for books, studies, articles, and lectures organized within two series: General Correspondence and Related Material and Speech, Article, and Book File.
The bulk of the collection consists of research notes that Anderson prepared and collected over a twenty-year period in preparation for a three-volume study of the secession crisis, "The Two Hundred Days of 1860-1861," which remained unwritten at his death. The source notes are drawn from collections of personal papers, archives, newspapers, and books. The collection also includes a draft of an introduction to the study presenting a statement of Anderson's thesis and a proposed outline for the work. The papers further contain research notes for two of his published works, Mystery of a “Public Man" and Handbook for the Diplomatic History of Europe, Asia, and Africa, 1870-1914, as well as miscellaneous notes for lectures, classes, articles, and papers.
Correspondence, memorabilia, and miscellaneous items.
Research notes gathered by Anderson in support of his books, studies, articles, and lectures.
The Amory Austin Collection Relating to Heraldry spans the years circa 1865-1917 and consists of notes, notebooks, and other papers relating to heraldry collected by Austin. Included also is an obituary of Ivers James Austin, a Massachusetts politician, and a letter to him.
The papers of Francis Baylies (1783-1852) span the years 1814-1843. The papers contain Baylies's writings relating to the American Revolution, the Confederation and Constitution, Alexander Hamilton, and the administrations of George Washington, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson. Other documents include transcripts of Alexander Hamilton letters, drafts of letters by Baylies, copies of diplomatic and naval correspondence on the voyage of the Lexington (sloop) and the Falkland Islands fisheries dispute, quotations from Baylies's book on the New Plymouth Colony, manuscript copies of documents relating to the business of the Massachusetts house of representatives, and a speech on the aurora borealis.
The papers of Florence Deakins Becker (1878-1969) span the years 1891-1963, with the bulk of the material dating between 1910 and 1963. The papers document her activities as a volunteer worker for several medical causes. Becker devoted her time and energies to combating cancer and tuberculosis. Her papers consist of the following seven series: Diaries, Family Papers, General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings File, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Diaries cover 1924, 1929, and 1944, with some undated entries. Subjects in the diaries and engagement calendars include the Michigan Tuberculosis Association and American efforts to render medical aid to French refugees during World War I.
Most information about Becker's personal life is in the Family Papers. Included is correspondence with various relatives and with her husbands, geologist George F. Becker (died 1919) and John Campbell Forrester, a British national who was a businessman and politician in Scotland and Bengal (India). Following her divorce from Forrester in 1930, Becker resumed her former married name.
The General Correspondence series includes business and personal letters as well as letters exchanged with prominent contemporaries. Business correspondence ranges from the American Public Health Association to professional associates such as Joseph Colt Bloodgood and Thomas E. Rush. Correspondence with friends includes letters exchanged with Clarence W. Barron, Suzanne Bartlett, W. Norman Brown, and Florence Keen. Other correspondents include William Edgar Borah, Edward T. Devine, William P. Dillingham, and William H. Taft.
The Speeches and Writings File provides insight into Florence Becker's extensive work in cancer prevention. Among the most significant material in this series are speeches about protective measures for women against cancer.
Becker was involved in a number of medical organizations, and there is considerable material on these activities in the papers. The Subject File documents her work with the Tuberculosis Association of Bengal, Urgent Relief for France, and the Ligue du Nord Contre la Tuberculose. Becker also studied and reported on medical conditions within veterans' hospitals. Other interests documented in the Subject File include the Maryland tercentenary, her founding of the George Ferdinand Becker Memorial Library in Independence, Virginia, and the Washington Animal Rescue League.
The Miscellany series contains scrapbooks, clippings, miscellaneous printed matter, financial papers, and memorabilia. There are also honors and awards, including La Medaille de la Reconnaissance Lilloise and a citation from the French Committee for Defense Against Tuberculosis.
Diaries and engagement calendars.
Letters sent and received between family members, including files of Becker's correspondence with her two husbands, biographical information, estate files, memoirs, and printed matter.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, and memoranda.
Speeches, class compositions, literary fragments, and writings by others.
Topical files, reports, printed matter, correspondence, photographs, biographical material, and notes.
Financial papers, printed matter, passports, memorabilia, and newspaper clippings.
Scrapbooks, awards, honors, photographs, and printed matter.
The papers of Clifford Kennedy Berryman (1869-1949) span the years 1814-1965, with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1949. The papers relate primarily to his career as a political cartoonist for the Washington Post and the Washington Star that spanned more than fifty years.
A large portion of the papers consists of letters Berryman received from presidents, vice presidents, cabinet members, members of Congress, Supreme Court justices, and other prominent Americans. Many correspondents commented on specific cartoons and thanked Berryman for his gift of the originals. Also included are letters from fellow illustrators, including Charles Bittinger and John T. McCutcheon. Among a small section of letters sent by Berryman are illustrated letters he wrote to his mother during the time he was working in the United States Patent Office.
Other items include drafts of a lecture, “The Origin, Development and Influence of the Cartoon,” that Berryman delivered to the Literary Society of Washington in 1921. The drafts contain sketches in the margins and are accompanied by pencil sketches that later were enlarged to be visible from the lecture platform. Two autograph albums contain pen portraits of approximately 120 prominent Americans dating from 1898 to 1949. Each portrait is autographed by the subject. Among those represented in the albums are presidents Grover Cleveland, Calvin Coolidge, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Warren G. Harding, Herbert Hoover, William McKinley, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt (next to a sketch of the Teddy Bear), William H. Taft, Harry S. Truman, and Woodrow Wilson. Printed matter includes items relating to the Gridiron Club.
One item unrelated to Clifford Berryman’s career is an 1814 bill of sale for a woman and child. The transaction was conducted between Berryman family members.
The papers of Andrew Jackson Donelson extend from 1779 to 1943, although they are principally for the period from 1813-1869. Letters received by Donelson constitute the bulk of the papers, but retained contemporary copies and drafts of letters sent are present, as well as transcripts and photocopies. Also included are a letter copybook of Donelson's dispatches from Berlin, 1846-1848, a few drafts of speeches, legal and financial papers, photographs, engravings, and printed matter. The collection is arranged in six series: General Correspondence and Other Papers, Additional Correspondence, Letter Copybook, Miscellaneous Papers, Family Papers, and Printed Matter, Documents and Indexes.
Others represented in the Andrew Donelson Papers by distinct but lesser groups of material are Emily Tennessee Donelson, wife of A.J. Donelson, a volume containing correspondence, journal entries, and photographs; Mary Emily Donelson, daughter of Andrew Donelson, an album, diary, and scrapbook, with some correspondence; James Glasgow Martin and Lewis Randolph, correspondence, journals, and notebooks; and Pauline Wilcox Burke, great-granddaughter of Andrew Donelson, correspondence, notes, and research materials.
The major portion of the collection relates to the Donelson's public life, as a cadet at West Point, military aide and private secretary to his uncle, Andrew Jackson, diplomat in Mexico and Germany, editor, and political candidate. Very few items relate to the Civil War period or to the years thereafter.
Andrew Donelson was closely associated with Andrew Jackson from early youth until the latter's death in 1845. Whenever the two were separated, Jackson would write frequent letters to his nephew, discussing matters large and small. Jackson is, then, a major figure in the Donelson papers, and there are some 250 of his letters in the collection. Many drafts and fair copies of Jackson's presidential messages and proclamations were once a part of the Donelson Papers, but were placed with the Library's Jackson Papers some years ago.
Among the many subjects touched upon by correspondence in the Donelson papers are Jackson's presidential campaigns of 1824, 1828, and 1832, the Eaton affair, the resulting Donelson-Jackson breach, and the subsequent cabinet reorganization of 1831. The move to recharter the Bank of the United States, nullification, the Poindexter incident, French spoliation claims, removal of deposits, and other issues of Jackson's presidency are also subjects of correspondence. There are many letters from office seekers and from others hoping to influence President Jackson through his secretary. Family affairs and plantation matters, especially the management of slaves and the breeding and training of horses, are frequent topics of correspondence.
Donelson's diplomatic career, as chargé d'affaires at the time of the annexation of Texas, and as minister to Prussia and Germany, is developed in correspondence and in the case of Germany, copies of dispatches. His brief political career, with the American Party, is not as fully portrayed as other aspects of his life, and very little is available to document the later years spent out of public service.
A small, but highly unusual, group of material in the collection consists of documents relating to Virginia's ratification of the United States Constitution, 1787-1788. Included is a Dunlap and Claypoole printing of the Constitution with holograph annotations by Edmund Pendleton.
The roster of prominent correspondents in the Donelson Papers is long and varied. Presidents in addition to Jackson represented by correspondence are James Monroe, Martin Van Buren, John Tyler, James K. Polk, Zachary Taylor, Millard Fillmore, Franklin Pierce, and James Buchanan. Many of Jackson's cabinet members are included, such as Edward Livingston, Louis McLane, Roger Brooke Taney, Levi Woodbury, John Henry Eaton, Lewis Cass, Benjamin F. Butler, Amos Kendall, John Branch, and William J. Duane.
Letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received
Copies of Donelson's diplomatic dispatches from Berlin, nos. 1-85.
Speeches, legal papers, and accounts of Donelson. Transcriptions and photocopies of letters of Andrew Jackson, Andrew Jackson Donelson, and others. Also biographical sketches of Jackson, Andrew Jackson Donelson, and Mary Smith Donelson.
Papers of Emily Tennessee Donelson, Mary Emily Donelson, James Glasgow Martin and Lewis Randolph, and Pauline Wilcox Burke.
Printed matter and documents relating to the ratification of the Constitution by Virginia.
The Daniel Schorr Papers (1916-2010) span the years 1922-2010, with the bulk of the material dating from 1943 to 2006. The papers are organized into the following series: Family and Personal File, Correspondence, Broadcasts and Film, Speeches and Public Appearances, Writings File, Subject File, Miscellany, 2017 Addition, Oversize.
The Family and Personal File contains biographical material, professional achievement awards, and estate, financial, and military records. The correspondence consists chiefly of Schorr's letters to his mother, Tillie Godiner Schorr. They describe his activities as a United States Army intelligence officer stationed at Camp Polk, Louisiana, and Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas, during World War II. In later years the letters provide details of his life and work in postwar Europe into the Cold War era. In addition to politics, Schorr also covered cultural events. His friendship with violinist Isaac Stern is well documented. The diaries and notebooks contain Schorr's observations while on news reporting assignments.
The Correspondence series contains incoming and copies of outgoing letters to professional colleagues, friends, and fans. Chief correspondents are Harry A. Blackmun, Charles W. Colson, Captain Alfred Friendly, Richard M. Nixon, William S. Paley, Richard S. Salant, Ted Turner, and Herman Wouk.
The Broadcasts and Film series forms the centerpiece of the papers. Although incorporating contracts, correspondence, and publicity material, most of the series consists of scripts written primarily for Cable News Network, Columbia Broadcasting System, and National Public Radio. European events covered include postwar reconstruction, the Marshall Plan, the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, superpower summit meetings, Moscow under Nikita Sergeevich Khrushchev, and the Berlin crisis of 1961. Individuals receiving coverage by Schorr were Khrushchev, Konrad Adenauer, Fidel Castro, and Dwight D. Eisenhower. In the United States, Schorr reported on issues relating to civil rights, urban problems, and the environment. He is particularly known for his investigation of the Watergate Affair and scandals involving the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The papers document his clash with CBS and the United States House of Representatives over his publication of a suppressed intelligence report.
The Speeches and Public Appearances series documents Schorr's activities on the professional lecture circuit as a keynote speaker, as well as a classroom lecturer, conference participant, and panel moderator. He regularly participated in the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies (later the Aspen Institute) in Aspen, Colorado. Material includes background information, contracts, correspondence, notes, publicity, and texts of speeches.
The Writings File includes production material for Schorr's books, Clearing the Air, Don't Get Sick in America, and Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism. Schorr's career as a print journalist is represented by clippings and typescripts of articles written for newspapers and magazines. The topics duplicate those covered in his broadcasts.
The Subject File contains Schorr's reference material for his writings and broadcasts, chiefly news clippings, reports, and printed material.
The Miscellany series consists of legal case material regarding freedom of speech issues, Schorr's press passes, and a set of National Public Radio playing cards featuring its journalists.
The 2017 Addition series spans the years 1939 to 2010, with the bulk of the material dating between 1986 and 1990. The series complements the initial portion of the collection and relates to Schorr's career as a print and broadcast journalist. The material is arranged in five groups: broadcasts and film, correspondence, family and personal file, miscellany, and writings. The majority of the 2017 Addition consists of scripts of Schorr's regular commentary on National Public Radio (NPR) as a senior news analyst, including appearances on Weekend Edition, All Things Considered, The Two-Way, and a special call-in program initiated in 1991 at the onset of the Gulf War. The period 1986 to 1991 is particularly well documented, though scripts date throughout the tenure of Schorr's career at NPR, from 1985 until his death in 2010. Many of the scripts in this series overlap with those in the Broadcasts and Film series, though many of the scripts contained here include Schorr's edits and annotations. Also included are several iterations of the script for Watergate, a television miniseries narrated by Schorr in 1994. The writings file contains clippings of articles authored by Schorr for various serial publications, as well as a copy of his manuscript for Staying Tuned: A Life in Journalism.
The Oversize series includes awards, certificates, and posters.
Awards, certificates, biographical and genealogical information, family correspondence, diaries and notebooks, estate and financial records, military records, school papers, and travel papers.
Incoming and copies of outgoing correspondence with colleagues.
Contracts, correspondence, publicity, and scripts.
Background information, contracts, correspondence, interviews, notes, publicity, and texts of speeches for appearances as keynote speaker, conference participant, classroom lecturer, and panel moderator.
Contracts, correspondence, clippings, drafts, publicity, and typescripts of Schorr's articles and books.
Correspondence, legal documents, news clippings, reports, and printed material.
Contract, legal case material, playing cards, and press passes.
Broadcast scripts, clippings, correspondence, articles and book production material, speeches, interviews, notes, and printed material.
Awards, certificates, posters, and miscellaneous news articles.
The papers of Benjamin Helm Bristow (1832-1896) span the years 1839-1932, with the bulk of the material from 1874 to 1896. The collection consists of correspondence, speeches, biographical material, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, other printed materials, and photographs relating primarily to Bristow's service as solicitor general and secretary of the treasury in President Ulysses S. Grant's administrations and to his New York City law firm. Included are a letterpress book of incoming and outgoing correspondence of the commissioner of internal revenue concerning the whiskey frauds of 1875.
Among the correspondents are William W. Belknap, James Gillespie Blaine, Henry V. Boynton, George William Childs, David Davis, Anthony Joseph Drexel, George F. Edmunds, Hamilton Fish (1808-1893), William Cassius Goodloe, Ulysses S. Grant, John Marshall Harlan, W. A. Meriwether, Horace Porter, and Noah Haynes Swayne.
The papers of Katherine Garrison Chapin (1890-1977) span the years 1930-1972. The collection consists of correspondence; drafts of plays, poems, short stories, articles, and other writings; notes and notebooks; reviews; biographical material; publicity material; and printed matter. The bulk of the papers consists of drafts of published and unpublished poetry and plays, including "Sojourner Truth," "The Tapestry of the Duchess," "The Other Journey," and "To Speak Before Sleep." The collection is arranged by type of material.
The papers of George Dewey (1837-1917) span the years 1805-1949, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1885-1931. The collection primarily concerns Dewey's naval career after 1885 and consists of diaries, correspondence, letterbooks, military papers, clippings, printed matter, financial records, scrapbooks, and memorial volumes comprising the following series: Diaries, General Correspondence, Military File, Financial File, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
The General Correspondence and Military File include correspondence and letterbooks focusing on Dewey's service as a naval commander in the Far East during the Spanish-American War commanding the Asiatic Squadron of the United States Navy, specifically his command of the cruiser Olympia at the Battle of Manila Bay, 1 May 1898, and the subsequent capture of Manila in August 1898. Of special interest are the correspondence and letterbooks for the period 1898-1899, particularly correspondence from Oscar Fitzalan Williams, American consul in Manila. The Military File contains copies of telegrams between Dewey and John Davis Long, secretary of the navy; Theodore Roosevelt, assistant secretary of the navy; Oscar Fitzalan Williams; and the American consuls in Shanghai, Tokyo, and Hong Kong. The material also relates to Dewey's service as commander of the screw steamer Pensacola, flagship of the European Squadron, 1885-1888; admiral of the navy and president of the General Board of the Navy, 1899-1917; president of the Winfield Scott Schley court of inquiry, 1901; and commander-in-chief of naval maneuvers while aboard the presidential yacht Mayflower, 1902-1903.
The General Correspondence series also includes letters exchanged between Dewey's parents, Mary Perrin and Julius Y. Dewey, and other family members. Letters from William T. Sherman and James A. Garfield in 1874 to Mildred Dewey's first husband, William B. Hazen, are also in the General Correspondence. Other prominent correspondents include Charles J. Bonaparte, William E. Chandler, George B. Cortelyou, George Creel, Josephus Daniels, Grenville Mellen Dodge, John Hay, Robert Lansing, John Davis Long, A. T. Mahan, William H. Moody, Paul Morton, Truman Handy Newberry, Redfield Proctor, Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919), Elihu Root, and Oscar Fitzalan Williams. An index to most of the letters is filed at the beginning of the series.
The Financial File includes correspondence and records that reveal Dewey's large real estate holdings and other investments. Among the Miscellany series are clippings, genealogical and biographical material, memorabilia, memorial volumes, notes, printed matter, records of the Naval Order of the United States, and scrapbooks. Also, there is a typescript of an article written in 1904 by Commander Nathan Sargent entitled "Admiral Dewey and the Manila Campaign," an account of the Battle of Manila Bay and subsequent actions and operations of Dewey and the Asiatic Squadron.
The Addition includes general correspondence and material pertaining chiefly to the estate of Dewey's second wife, Mildred McLean Hazen Dewey. Correspondence includes Dewey's letters to Mildred Dewey and letters he received from others, many of which relate to his service as president of the Schley court of inquiry and Mildred Dewey's exchanges with Frederick M. Bugher, Josephus Daniels, her stepson George G. Dewey, Henry Cabot Lodge (1850-1924), her brother John R. McLean, Elisabeth Ellicott Poe, and Alvin Untermyer. A daughter of the founder of the Washington Post, Mildred Dewey held a sizable estate at her death. The estate file documents the disposition of the estate and includes correspondence of family members and lawyers, including Democratic Party presidential contender John W. Davis (1873-1955). Family interests in the Rosiclare Lead and Fluorspar Mining Co., which was owned by Mildred Dewey's father, Washington McLean, is documented in the estate file as well as the financial file.
Miscellaneous files among the additional material include clippings, a copy of a letter by Thomas Jefferson to Katharine Duane Morgan, memorabilia, notes, poetry, printed matter, and a report on the reception of Dewey at Washington, D.C., October 2-3 1899. Commissions, citations, degrees, awards, posters, and memorial volumes comprise the Oversize series.
Diaries of George and Mildred McLean Hazen Dewey.
Primarily letters received with copies of some letters sent.
Letterbooks, ships' records, reports, telegrams, printed matter, and miscellany.
Account books, correspondence, receipts, and material related to real estate, loans, and investments.
Appointment books, articles re Dewey, certificates, clippings, genealogical and biographical material, memorial volumes, letterbooks, memorabilia, record books, notes, poetry, printed matter, and scrapbooks.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, account statements, clippings, deeds, and legal documents.
Correspondence, account statements, and account books.
Certificates, clippings, commissions, copy of a Thomas Jefferson letter, memorabilia, notes, poetry, and printed matter.
Oversize material consisting primarily of commissions, citations, degrees, awards, memorial volumes, and posters.
The papers of William Edward Dodd (1869-1940) span the years 1895 to 1955, with the bulk of the material dating from 1900 to 1940. The papers are in English and German with French and are organized in six series: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, Family Correspondence, Addition, and Oversize. Included are two pocket diaries from 1928 and 1931, articles, speeches, book material, autobiographical notes relating to Dodd's life before 1930, a correspondence file, much of it within the family, from 1895 until 1953 long after his death, and letters written by Dodd during a trip to Europe, 1928-1929. The earlier papers relate to Dodd's work as an historian, author, and citizen-scholar interested in local, state, national, and international politics. The greater part of the papers concern Dodd's career as professor of history at the University of Chicago and as ambassador to Germany.
Prominent correspondents include Newton Diehl Baker, Carl L. Becker, Albert Jeremiah Beveridge, Claude Gernade Bowers, George P. Brett, Nicholas Murray Butler, Josephus Daniels, Edward Mandell House, Cordell Hull, R. Walton Moore, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Daniel C. Roper, Hjalmar Horace Greeley Schacht, and Frederick Jackson Turner, as well as many other scholars and diplomatic colleagues. Family correspondents include Dodd's wife, Martha Johns Dodd, and their daughter, Martha Dodd (Stern).
Correspondence.
Writings by Dodd, including autobiographical notes, academic articles and reviews, speeches, editorials, and book material.
Diaries, photographs, printed matter, and other material.
Correspondence.
Correspondence, photographs, news clippings, and miscellany.
Diploma.
The papers of Louise Bates Ames (1908-1996) span the period 1915-1989, with the bulk of the material dating from 1950 to 1975. The collection consists primarily of correspondence and manuscript material relating to Ames's career as a child psychologist, cofounder and codirector of the Gesell Institute of Child Development, and author of numerous books and articles on child behavior and child development. Included in the collection are family correspondence, correspondence with friends and professional associates, a sampling of letters related to the syndicated newspaper column Parents Ask, and manuscripts and related correspondence for several of Ames's books and articles. The collection is organized in six original series and five additions. The original series include Family Correspondence, Special Correspondence, General Correspondence, "Parents Ask" Newspaper Column, Writings, and Miscellany. The additions are dated according to the year of their arrangement and contain material organized in the same schema as the original part.
Ames's career as a child psychologist began in 1933 when she joined the staff of the Yale Clinic of Child Development as research secretary and personal assistant to the director, Arnold Gesell, with whom she worked until 1948. She received her doctorate in psychology from Yale University in 1936; was curator of the Yale Films of Child Development, 1944-1950; and participated in the development of articles, books, and research projects in the field of child psychology. Material in the collection which relates to this period may be found in the following series: Family Correspondence, especially letters to Annie E. Bates; Special Correspondence, in particular correspondence with James T. Culbertson, Paul H. Elicker, Guy S. Métraux, and Ruth W. Métraux; Writings File, "Guide to the Yale Films of Child Development" by Louise Bates Ames; and Miscellany containing a diary, 1928-1937, and annual reports, 1939-1949.
After Gesell's retirement, the clinic separated from Yale University, and in 1950, Ames and her associate, Frances Lillian Ilg, founded the Gesell Institute of Child Development. The institute's name changed to the Gesell Institute of Human Development in 1978. The Gesell Institute is a private, nonprofit corporation for clinical research in the field of child psychology. Ames was Director of Research at the Institute until 1968 when she became codirector. In conjunction with her study of children's behavior at successive age intervals, Ames became one of the pioneers of rorschach psychological testing. References to this and other aspects of her work may be found in the Family and Special Correspondence series, in particular, the letters of Annie E. Bates, Joan Ames Chase, Len Lye, Guy S. Métraux, Ruth W. Métraux, and Evelyn Goodenough Pitcher. More detailed information about rorschach testing may be found in Ames's numerous books and articles, bibliographies of which are in Miscellany.
As the work of the Gesell Institute became increasingly recognized, requests for lectures, television appearances, and articles began to increase as well. This aspect of Ames's career is well documented in her papers. In the Special Correspondence series are files relating to her two television series, Child Behavior and The Gesell Institute Reports: Your Child and You. In 1951, Ames and Ilg began their syndicated newspaper column, Child Behavior, which in 1962 became known as Parents Ask. A sampling of unedited letters from the column for the period 1954-1964 is included in the collection as well as two sets of the edited and published columns covering the years 1967-1968. Research files of Robert M. Zingg on "wolf-children" are included in the 1977 addition.
Ames corresponded with numerous friends, colleagues, and associates, many of whom were prominent in their fields. Among those whose letters are contained in the Special Correspondence series are Fitzhugh Dodson, Arnold Gesell, Gerhard Alden Gesell, Len Lye, Margaret Mead, Daniel P. Moynihan, Vance Packard, and Benjamin Spock. Also in the Special Correspondence series are files concerning Ames's work with the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and the White House Conference on Children and Youth in 1970-1971.
Among the papers are drafts, readers' proofs, and publishers' correspondence for seven of Ames's books: Child Care and Development (1970), Don't Push Your Pre-Schooler (1973), Infant and Child in the Culture of Today (revised edition 1974), Is Your Child in the Wrong Grade? (1967), Mosaic Patterns of American Children (1962), School Readiness (1964), and Stop School Failure (1972). In addition, there is correspondence relating to several book reviews and a draft essay for inclusion in the book Summerhill: For and Against, published in 1970 by Hart Publishing Company.
Correspondence to and from family members, in particular Ames's mother, Annie E. Bates, and daughter, Joan Ames Chase. Included are Bates's rorschach responses that became the basis for Ames's Rorschach Responses in Old Age.
Correspondence to and from friends, colleagues, child psychologists, authors, newspaper editors, television producers, and government officials.
Letters to and from the general public regarding the column Parents Ask and from psychologists and students concerning research projects and books. Some business correspondence is also included.
A sampling of letters to and from readers of the syndicated column Parents Ask (called Child Behavior until 1962) and a set of columns for the years 1967-1968.
Drafts, proofs, and publishers' correspondence relating to Ames's books and a small collection of articles written by others. Books are arranged alphabetically by title.
Annual reports, awards, a diary, appointment calendars, lists of lectures, newspaper clippings, and receipts.
Correspondence with family, friends, colleagues, publishers, and the public; a subject file concerning the television program Playmates/Schoolmates; a writings file largely concerning Don't Push Your Pre-schooler; and miscellany. Also included are research files of Robert M. Zingg on "wolf-children."
Correspondence with friends, colleagues, publishers, and the public; diary excerpts, photographs, biographical material, and printed matter; condolence letters on the death of Ames's daughter; correspondence of Frances Lillian Ilg; research, lectures, and writings by Ames and Arnold Gesell; and files concerning the Gesell Institute of Child Development, White House Conference on Children and Youth, and Ames's radio and television programs.
Correspondence with family, friends, colleagues, publishers, and the public; dream diaries; articles; lecture schedule; and biographical and genealogical information.
Correspondence with family, friends, colleagues, and publishers.
Correspondence, biographical information, dream diaries, family history, fan letters, interviews, photographs, reminiscences, and writings.
The papers of Howard Scholer Liebengood (1942-2005) span the years 1950-1982, with the bulk of items concentrated in the period 1973-1981, during which Liebengood worked for the United States Senate assisting Tennessee senator Howard H. Baker. The Liebengood Papers represent numerous aspects of Baker's work in the Senate, especially those activities involving Liebengood, and contain some of Baker's own correspondence and papers. Included are correspondence, office memoranda, reports, Senate papers, trip material, research items, speeches, campaign material, legislative proposals, notebooks, a few newspaper clippings and photographs, and miscellany. The papers are divided into five series created by Liebengood or his staff, and there is some topical overlap between the various series. Many original folder titles have been retained, and within each series, many folders have been grouped together by subject matter. The series consist of Howard H. Baker Files, Minority Leader's Office Files, Panama Canal Treaties Files, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Files, Watergate Committee Files, and Classified.
Liebengood left Nashville, Tennessee, and arrived in Washington, D.C., during the summer of 1973 to work as part of the minority staff of the United States Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities (commonly known as the Watergate Committee). Baker was the ranking Republican on the committee. Liebengood's responsibilities included interviewing potential witnesses. The Watergate Committee files include a large group of abstracts of interviews and testimony. Baker conducted a special investigation of the role of the Central Intelligence Agency in the Watergate break-in and related events. Much of the research material from the investigation is included in this series. A number security classified items were removed from this series and placed in the Classified series thatis described at the end of the container list.
After the Watergate hearings, Liebengood returned to private law practice. In 1975 he began working with the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, first as a consultant and in 1976 as the minority staff director, a position he held for one year. Intelligence Committee files reflect some of the intelligence and security concerns of the period: the desire to define and restrict the scope of operations of the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the renewed investigation into President John F. Kennedy's assassination, and issues such as the Korean influence-buying scandal ("Koreagate") and the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks II (SALT II) being negotiated with the Soviet Union.
From March 1977 until January 1981, Liebengood served as Baker's legislative counsel in the minority leader's office. His papers for this period are the most numerous and wide-ranging in the collection. There are large sections on legislative proposals, nominations and appointments, Senate committees and Senate Republican groups, and official trips. Also included are sections on various issues that arose during President Jimmy Carter's administration, such as the Abscam bribery scandal, the scandal concerning his brother Billy Carter's ties to Libya, and the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks II.
Papers relating to the Panama Canal treaties have been separated from the Minority Leader's Office Files and placed in a separate series. The Senate debated the Panama Canal treaties in 1977-1978, and Baker was a central figure during the deliberations and final acceptance of the treaties. It was perhaps because of Baker's leadership that the treaties were ratified in 1978. Republican responses to the Panama Canal treaties reveal a split in the party between moderates who supported Baker and conservatives, such as Ronald Reagan, who felt that Baker had cooperated in a Panama Canal "give-away."
Primarily correspondence, but also legal papers, newspaper clippings, reports, and photographs. Includes material from Baker's 1980 presidential bid.
Correspondence, legislation, reports, Senate floor statements, financial materials, agendas, minutes of meetings, and trip material reflecting the broad range of Liebengood's activities in his role as legislative counsel to Senate minority leader Howard H. Baker.
Correspondence, reports, proposals for treaty amendments, Senate witness questions and statements, commentary from various political figures, speeches and floor statements, newspaper clippings, and trip materials. Almost all the material dates from the 1977-1978 debate over and ratification of the treaties.
Correspondence, reports, executive orders, and legislation pertaining to the work of the Intelligence Committee. Almost all the material dates from the 1977-1978 debate over and ratification of the treaties.
Correspondence, reports, abstracts of interviews, compilations of Central Intelligence Agency documents, staff lists, newspaper clippings, legal papers, and notebooks.
Correspondence, interviews, notebooks, reports, and testimony.
The papers of Boris Leo Brasol (1885-1963) span the years 1919-1954. The collection consists of correspondence, drafts and typescripts, notes, memoranda, reports, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to Russia and the Soviet Union, criminology, the Zionist movement, and Brasol's writings and various subjects of his literary criticism. The papers are in English and Russian and are organized into the following series: Political Correspondence, Personal Correspondence, Anti-Soviet Campaign, Scrapbook, Post-Revolutionary Russia, Legal File, Vladimir von Koeppen File, Speeches, Literary File, Newspaper Clippings, and Addition.
Subjects of interest include investigations into the assassinations of the Romanovs and crime detection in European countries as compiled by the Criminological Survey of the Columbia University Law School. The Literary File contains material relating to Oscar Wilde including correspondence with Vyvyan Holland, John H. Wheelock, and Allan Wade concerning Wilde and typescript copies and extracts of Wilde's letters located in other repositories which Brasol used for his book Oscar Wilde: the Man, the Artist, and the Martyr. The series also includes the printer's typescript draft with handwritten corrections of Brasol's translation of Diary of a Writer by Fyodor Dostoyevsky and material relating to Edgar Allan Poe including correspondence of the Edgar Allan Poe Society.
Brasol was purported to have aided in the translation of the American edition of the anti-Semitic tract The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, and the papers contain correspondence and related reference material exploring various Jewish issues in the Newspaper Clippings series. Brasol also participated in arranging a series of commentaries on the protocols that were to be published in Henry Ford's paper the Dearborn Independent. The Legal File contains correspondence and other papers concerning the legal case brought against Ford by Henry Bernstein, who, in 1921, had written a book exposing the protocols as fraudulent and sued Ford to retract their publication.
The Anti-Soviet Campaign series highlights efforts of White Russian émigrés to deny the Soviet Union official international recognition as the legitimate government of Russia.
Correspondence, publicity material, book reviews, political criticism.
Correspondence and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence and miscellaneous material concerning efforts to deny the Soviet Union official international recognition as the legitimate government of Russia.
Scrapbook of clippings concerning Brasol's Elements of Crime (1927).
Notebooks containing correspondence and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, legal records, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence and miscellaneous material concerning Vladimir von Koeppen.
Speeches.
Correspondence, drafts, notes, proofs, typescripts, and miscellaneous material relating to Brasol's books, translations, and literary criticism.
Newspaper clippings mostly regarding Jewish topics.
Correspondence, articles, reports, and miscellaneous material.
The papers of John Dean Caton (1812-1875) span the period from 1826 to 1947 with the bulk concentrated in the period 1826-1895. Caton was the first lawyer who settled in Chicago and was an associate justice of the supreme court of Illinois from 1842 to 1864 and served as chief justice of that court in 1855 and from 1857 to 1864. For more than a generation he was in correspondence with lawyers and public men of his state including those prominent in its history.
Caton’s papers consist of family, professional and legal correspondence, speeches, drafts of an unpublished memoir, other writings, and a scrapbook. The bulk covers Caton's activities as a lawyer in Chicago, as an associate and chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court, 1842-1867, as chief stockholder and director of the Illinois and Mississippi Telegraph Company, 1849-1867, as an investor in western mines, as a stockholder and director of the Oneida Salt Company, the Illinois Starch Company, and other business enterprises, and as a traveler and contributor of articles relating to nature studies and to the bench and bar in Illinois.
Included are Caton's own letters, those of his wife, Laura A. Caton, his brother, William P. Caton, and other members of his family. Other correspondents include Thomas Basnett, Sidney Breese, Thomas D. Catlin, Seldon Churchill, W. C. Churchill, Ezra Cornell, Austin C. French, Melville Weston Fuller, George H. Gatiss, L. Howell, Josiah Macy's Sons, James F. Joy, Norman B. Judd, Joel A. Matheson, Henry O'Riley, Hiram Sibley, Nathan Smith, E. D. L. Sweet, Samuel Hubbel Treat, Lyman Trumbull, Pinkney Houston Walker, Horace White, Norman Williams, and J. J. S. Wilson.
The papers of Waldo Lee McAtee (1883-1962) span the years 1803-1963, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1900-1960. The collection covers the full extent of McAtee's professional career at the Bureau of Biological Survey of the Department of Agriculture and its successor agency the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of Interior. He was noted especially for his research on the food habits of birds. Series within the collection include Correspondence, Research and Writings File, Handwriting Collection, and Miscellany.
The Correspondence File includes letters exchanged with numerous professional colleagues in various scientific fields and reflects McAtee's wide-ranging interests in ornithology, entomology, botany, and conservation. Prominent and frequent correspondents include Arthur Mangun Banta, F. E. L. Beal, Donald Beaty Bloch, Lee L. Buchanan, Frank M. Chapman, Josiah Henry Combs, A. K. Fisher, Ira Noel Gabrielson, Ernest G. Holt, J. Douglas Hood, Alfred C. Kinsey, Hoyes Lloyd, Harry Malleis, H. L. Mencken, John Russell Malloch, Edward Alexander Preble, Henry W. Shoemaker, Herbert L. Stoddard, John K. Terres, Joseph Snford Wade, Florence Warnick, and Casey A. Wood. The file also contains correspondence with family members including McAtee's wife, Fannie E. McAtee, his brother, Morris McAtee, and his son, Robert B. McAtee.
The Research and Writings File contains McAtee's notes and background resources for his professional writings. Drafts and printed copies of his writings are rarely present since McAtee donated a large collection of his writings to the Rare Book Collection of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The files reflect the intersection of McAtee's major studies in ornithology, entomology, and botany. His focus on the feeding habits of birds sparked his studies and writings on insects and plants, and he served as curator of Hemiptera at the Smithsonian Institution for twenty-seven years.
Among the highlights of the Research and Writings File is a large group of material related to his observations of wildlife, insects, and flora in and around the District of Columbia which he used for his book, A Sketch of the Natural History of the District of Columbia. Also notable is a large group of notes and background material pertaining to evolution as well as to an unpublished manuscript titled "A Critique of Darwin." After thirty years of study in the food habits of birds and other topics, McAtee became convinced that Darwin's theory of natural selection was flawed. In an application to a publisher in 1947, McAtee wrote "Average, not fittest or superlative, individuals survive, so the process provides no motor for evolution; the moving force must be sought elsewhere than in the 'struggle for existence.'" Other significant files relate to McAtee's biographical notes on prominent scientists, a large collection of field trip notes, and a manuscript and notes for his privately published A Review of the Nearctic Viburnum.
In the 1940s McAtee collected handwriting samples of ornithologists, botanists, mammalogists, entomologists and other groups. His collection consists of fragments of correspondence, receipts, notes, envelopes, and other sources for examples of handwriting.
The Miscellany series includes records of the Bureau of Biological Survey containing correspondence, field reports, office memoranda, and a report on the early years of the bureau. Also included is a group of miscellaneous avocational writings by McAtee consisting of poetry, prose, reviews, and other works which, in many instances, were privately printed by McAtee. Calendars, diaries, memorabilia, a scrapbook, wills, and printed matter are also contained in the Miscellany.
Correspondence received and sent.
Notes, drafts, printed matter, correspondence, and other background material.
Correspondence, notes, and memorabilia.
Records of the Bureau of Biological Survey, miscellaneous avocational writings by McAtee, calendars, memorabilia, diaries, scrapbook, and printed matter.
The papers of Nathaniel Alexander Owings (1903-1984) span the years 1911 to 1983, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1960-1980. The papers pertain to Owings's business, public, and personal affairs, documenting his career as a founding partner of the architectural firm Skidmore, Owings and Merrill (1936-1983); as chairman of several public commissions responsible for the redesign of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C.; as a member of various commissions relating to conservation, preservation, and redevelopment in California; and as an author whose articles and books reflect his concern with both the aesthetic and practical applications of architecture in contemporary life. The collection includes correspondence, memoranda, journals, drafts of speeches and writings, notes, charts, graphs, diagrams, drawings, poetry, clippings, photographs, printed matter, and other material. The collection is organized in seven series: Correspondence, Office File, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
The Correspondence series, 1939-1977, contains Owings's incoming and outgoing correspondence and appended material reflecting his interests as architect, businessman, conservationist, and civic-minded citizen Although the series contains business papers pertaining to his role as a partner in the firm of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill, the major portion consists of personal correspondence relating to his many other activities and interests. Correspondents include Ansel Adams, Stephen Davison Bechtel, Jerry Brown, Wolf von Eckardt, Arthur J. Goldberg, Lady Bird Johnson, Robert Moses, Daniel P. Moynihan, Elwood R. Quesada, David Rockefeller, Nicholas Roosevelt, Wallace Stegner, and Stewart L. Udall.
The Office File, 1954-1969, consists mostly of correspondence and memoranda relating to business concerns in the offices of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill. The reading file consists of copies of Owings's outgoing letters and memoranda arranged chronologically. Records included in the corporate memoranda and general office files provide detailed documentation of the firm's internal operations. The former includes memoranda exchanged between secretaries and executives at the San Francisco home office with their counterparts in field offices, as well as memoranda circulated within the San Francisco office.
The Subject File, 1934-1977, documents many facets of Owings's business and personal life. The file contains information relating to his work on various committees and commissions including the California Advisory Committee on a Master Plan for State Scenic Highways, the Monterey Coast Master Plan, and various organizations relating to the redevelopment of Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. Owings was appointed chairman of the President's Advisory Council on Pennsylvania Avenue by John F. Kennedy and later occupied the same position of its successor organization, the President's Temporary Commission on Pennsylvania Avenue. These organizations were charged, through remodeling and development, to redefine the area of Pennsylvania Avenue that connects the White House with the Capitol and, by so doing, bring it more in accord with the design of the original city plan by Pierre Charles L'Enfant.
The Speeches and Writings File, 1944-1977, reflects Owings's interest in numerous architectural and urban planning topics. The series contains early speeches and writings relating to specific architectural problems, later works concerning broader topics such as urban planning and architectural theory, and drafts, production materials, and correspondence relating to his two books The American Aesthetic (1969) and The Spaces in Between: An Architect's Journey (1973).
The Miscellany, 1911-1976, series contains a wide variety of material, such as appointment calendars, bills and receipts, postcards, and scrapbooks. Scrapbooks contain correspondence, clippings, and photographs.
The Addition consists of correspondence received and sent, biographical material, speeches and writings, legal and financial papers, minutes and reports, photographs, printed matter, and other material. Correspondence in the Addition is chiefly personal and contains a large segment relating to Owings's winning the American Institute of Architects' Gold Medal in 1983. Other topics of interest include the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, including Owings's letter of resignation to President Ronald Reagan, and his extensive collection of kachina dolls made by Hopi Indians. A miscellany file contains a copy of Owings's speech at the American Institute of Architects Gold Medal dinner in 1983. Also of interest are writings and other material relating to the Hopi Indians and a draft of an article, "Back to Earth," by Daniel P. Moynihan.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, memoranda, telegrams, and miscellaneous items.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, memoranda, telephone messages, telegrams, and miscellaneous items.
Letters received, copies of letters sent, printed matter, memoranda, financial and legal papers, telegrams, reports, architectural diagrams, and miscellaneous items.
Drafts of speeches and writings, correspondence, printed copies, galley proofs, production material, research material, notes, and miscellaneous items relating to Owings's articles, books, lectures, and speeches.
Postcards, printed matter, awards and certificates, bills and receipts, cards and invitations, speeches and writings by authors other than Owings, appointment calendars, and architectural drawings and diagrams.
Correspondence received and sent and miscellany including biographical material, speeches and writings, legal and financial papers, minutes and reports, photographs, printed matter, and clippings.
Oversize material consisting of scrapbooks, awards and certificates, architectural charts and diagrams, photographic proof sheets and layouts for Owings's book The American Aesthetic, and a copy of a publication sponsored by the President's Temporary Commission on Pennsylvania Avenue, entitled The Washington Mall Master Plan.
The papers of Frederick Douglass Patterson (1901-1988) span the years 1861-1988, with the largest group of materials dating from the period after 1965. The collection is composed of the personal papers of Patterson, third president of Tuskegee Institute and founder of the United Negro College Fund. They largely reflect his career following his retirement from Tuskegee in 1953 and highlight his efforts to preserve and develop historically Black institutions of higher learning. The bulk of the collection consists of correspondence, reports, organizational records, printed materials, writings and speeches, notes, clippings, memorabilia, and other miscellaneous items.
The Correspondence series of the Patterson Papers contains separate groupings of personal and general correspondence. Included in the personal correspondence are felicitations regarding Patterson's election to the presidency of Tuskegee Institute in 1935, his White House Private Sector Initiative Commendation in 1982, and his receipt of the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Ronald Reagan in 1987. A few family letters from the early 1930s are also contained in this portion of the file. Items in the general correspondence include communications with organizations and individuals concerned with education, educational administration, business, fund-raising, and government.
The greatest concentration of materials in the Patterson Papers is found in the Subject File. The papers in this series cluster chiefly around Patterson's association with the Robert Russa Moton Memorial Institute and the College Endowment Funding Plan. Established by Patterson in the late 1950s in memory of his father-in-law and second president of Tuskegee Institute, the Robert Russa Moton Memorial Institute provided financial planning and training for historically Black colleges. Operating under the auspices of the institute was the College Endowment Funding Plan, devised by Patterson to endow small, poorly financed Black colleges, thereby securing their long-term stability. The file pertaining to the College Endowment Funding Plan traces the development of this program throughout the 1970s and 1980s, focusing on the passage of legislation that established federal matching grants for Black colleges. The materials document Patterson's work with educational administrators, financial officers, and government officials. Prominent correspondents include Caspar W. Weinberger, Willa B. Player of the United States Office of Education, and Congressman, later Senator, Paul Simon.
Other papers in the Subject File relate to the latter years of Patterson's tenure as president of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, a foundation devoted to improving housing and educational opportunities for African Americans and other disadvantaged people. Franklin H. Williams, Patterson's successor, is a prominent correspondent in the papers relating to the fund. A key file pertains to education in Africa, including a handwritten journal of Patterson's travels through Nigeria in 1953-1954 inspecting educational resources on behalf of the International Bank Commission. Materials relating to Tuskegee Institute in the Subject File reflect Patterson's continued interest in the school and include extensive correspondence with his successor as president, Luther H. Foster. Also present are brief items relating to aviation and low-cost housing at Tuskegee, as well as a sizable file concerning the institute's veterinary medicine school. Patterson's interest in Robert Russa Moton and botanist George Washington Carver is also exhibited in the Subject File. A typescript draft of a biography of Moton is among various biographical materials found in the file. Patterson served as executor of Carver's estate and participated in various memorials recognizing his achievements. The file contains copies of Patterson's speeches honoring Carver. Also included are transcripts of oral history interviews with Patterson conducted in 1980 and 1981 for the Phelps-Stokes Fund and the United Negro College Fund.
The Clippings File consists of newspaper clippings and magazine articles from the late 1930s through the 1970s, which Patterson annotated and organized according to a detailed classification system. Topics treated include civil rights, desegregation, regional education, the South, higher education, philanthropy, and other related issues. Also included are a significant group of draft and printed copies of Patterson's writings and speeches, as well as notes relating to various topics. Other writings and speeches not included in this classification scheme are located in the Miscellany series.
The Miscellany series holds, among other materials, a collection of personal clippings relating to Patterson's career and his work with the College Endowment Funding Plan. Included also are draft and print copies of speeches and writings by Patterson, as well as a small group of his published articles among the printed matter. Other materials include certificates, biographical data, telegrams, and memorabilia.
Prominent or frequent correspondents include Robert L. Clayton, Nathaniel Sextus Colley, E. Roland Harriman, Patricia Harris, Matthew Jenkins, Maida Springer Kemp, Benjamin E. Mays, Henry Lee Moon, Ponchitta Anne Pierce, Hollis F. Price, and Robert Ogden Purves.
Personal and general correspondence, with attached and related matter, organized into separate groupings and alphabetically therein by name of person or organization or by type of material.
Correspondence, reports, memoranda, circular letters, minutes, financial records, printed materials, occasional writings and speeches, notes, and miscellaneous items.
Newspaper clippings, pamphlets, and articles culled from academic journals and popular magazines. Also included are a number of draft and printed copies of Patterson's writings and speeches located primarily under the headings "Authors" and "Frederick D. Patterson" and scattered elsewhere in the series under various topics. Patterson's original subject classification scheme has largely been maintained.
Draft and printed copies of speeches and writings, personal clippings, printed materials, notes, land and financial documents, biographical materials, certificates and awards, and assorted memorabilia.
The papers of William Howard Taft IV (1945-) span the years 1958-1989, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1970-1989 when he served in the presidential administrations of Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Ronald Reagan in postings at the Federal Trade Commission, Office of Management and Budget, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and Department of Defense. The papers are organized in General Correspondence, Government File, and Miscellany series.
The General Correspondence series includes correspondence with family members Barbara Bradfield Hoult Taft (mother), William Howard Taft III (father), Julia Vadala Taft (wife), John Thomas Taft (brother), Robert Taft, Jr. (uncle), and Helen Taft Manning (great aunt), daughter of president William H. Taft. Also in the General Correspondence are personal letters to and from friends and colleagues, including Chaplin B. Barnes, Jonathan C. Brown, Lloyd N. Cutler, Richard Norman Perle, John Derek Schoonmaker, Edward Byron Smith, Jr., Peter G. Stillman, Charles M. Super, Paul Thayer, and Caspar W. Weinberger.
The Government File, the largest series in the collection, is arranged into Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Department of Health Education and Welfare (HEW), and Department of Defense (DOD) subseries documenting Taft's government service. The OMB and HEW subseries consist mainly of chronologically arranged official correspondence, memoranda, and other daily records. The DoD subseries includes a large chronological file of official correspondence, memoranda, and other daily records. The files from OMB, HEW, and DOD complement the General Correspondence.
Taft's government service started in 1970 at the Federal Trade Commission during the Nixon administration. From 1968 to 1970 he participated in a project initiated by consumer advocate Ralph Nader to probe the effectiveness of the Federal Trade Commission. The new chairman of the commission, Caspar W. Weinberger, on reading a study produced by the FTC Investigation Project, asked Nader if any of the project staff were qualified for service with the commission. Nader recommended Taft, and he was named attorney-advisor to Weinberger. This appointment was the start of a long professional relationship between the two. Material related to the FTC Investigation Project and Taft's attorney-advisor tenure comprise the Federal Trade Commission file of the Government series.
The bulk of the material in the Office of Management and Budget subseries parallels the period 1970-1973 during the Nixon administration, when Taft worked as Weinberger's principal executive assistant while the latter was deputy director and director of OMB. Subjects of memoranda to Weinberger and others include meeting agendas of the Domestic Council and the Council of Economic Advisors, federal-state revenue sharing, guidelines for drafting legislation, projections on the effects of an aging population on entitlement programs, presidential impoundment of appropriated funds, tax expenditure analysis, the defense budget, and the "peace dividend" occasioned by the withdrawal of American troops from Vietnam. Other participants in OMB internal communication include Samuel M. Cohn and Arthur B. Laffer.
During 1973, Taft served as Caspar Weinberger's executive assistant when Weinberger held the dual offices of secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare and counselor to the president for human resources during Nixon's second term. There is substantial material in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare subseries on the scope, purpose, and activities of the newly-created office of counselor to the president for human resources. Weinberger continued to serve as secretary of HEW until 1975, early in the Ford administration, and Taft continued as his executive assistant. During 1976-1977, Taft was general counsel, or chief lawyer, for HEW under secretary Forrest David Mathews. Recurring topics in the HEW subseries include welfare reform, the negative income tax, school desegregation cases, swine flu vaccine liability, and national health insurance. Internal and external correspondents besides Weinberger and Mathews include Terrel Howard Bell, Peter J. Brennan, Frank Charles Carlucci, James H. Cavanaugh, Lewis M. Helm, Russell B. Long, William A. Morrill, Elliot L. Richardson, Pat Schroeder, and Julia Vadala (Taft).
Between 1981 and 1989, Taft was successively general counsel and deputy secretary of the Defense Department under secretaries of defense Caspar Weinberger and Frank Charles Carlucci during the Reagan presidential administration. The Department of Defense (DoD) file documenting Taft's service in this agency is the largest subseries of the Government series. It consists mainly of official outgoing correspondence with attached correspondence and other daily records arranged chronologically and inventoried by addressee, subject, and control number. Frequent correspondents besides the secretaries of defense include Joseph Patrick Addabbo, Les Aspin, Jack Brooks, Robinson O. Everett, Michael Horowitz, Tip O'Neill, Richard Norman Perle, Colin L. Powell, Melvin Price, William V. Roth, Carl R. Smith, David Alan Stockman, W. Paul Thayer, Strom Thurmond, John G. Tower, and Joseph Robert Wright.
The most numerous document types in the Miscellany series are records related to Taft's law partnership with the Washington firm of Leva, Hawes, Symington, Martin and Oppenheimer and writings not related to his governmental duties, such as college term papers. Speeches and writings resulting from his official duties are housed in the Government Fileewith the files of the appropriate governmental entity. For example, a speeches and writings file of Taft material is part of the DOD subseries of the Government File.
Letters sent and received with attached and related material.
Chronological office files, correspondence, memoranda, reports, speeches, articles, telephone logs, and miscellaneous material.
Memoranda, correspondence, reports, studies, speeches, notes, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, statements, clippings, notes, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, studies, and miscellaneous material.
Studies, reports, memoranda, proposals, and miscellaneous material.
Law office files, appointment books, calendars, case studies, college term papers, draft book chapters, subject files, and miscellaneous material.
The records of the Democratic Study Group (DSG) document activities of a legislative service organization in the United States House of Representatives from 1959 to 1995. The records are arranged in three parts. Part I contains material from 1940 to 1976 organized in six series: Fact Sheets, Reports, and Other Material; Campaign File; Chronological File; Subject File; Printed Matter; and Oversize. Part II contains records from 1912 to 1995 organized in six series: Administrative File, Chronological File, Research Publications, Services and Activities, Subject File, and Formerly Restricted. Part III contains records from 1967 to 1994, and is organized in six series: DSG Legislative Report, Campaign Memoranda, Daily Report, Fact Sheet, Research Publications, and Miscellany. There is considerable overlap in Parts I and II for documentation on major DSG activities. Similar arrangement of series in each part facilitates access by topic and document type.
Part I
In 1959, a group of liberal Democratic members of the House of Representatives organized the Democratic Study Group to counterbalance a conservative Republican-Dixiecrat coalition. The group's first need was for research and analysis of legislative proposals, policy options, and political issues in order to exchange information and identify common ground. The DSG provided a constant flow of information to its members in publications found primarily in the series Fact Sheets, Reports, and Other Material with additional items in the Chronological File and Subject File of Part I. DSG publications are also contained in the Research Publications series of Part II.
DSG circulars include the DSG Legislative Report, a weekly summary of bills and amendments scheduled for action that week. The DSG Legislative Report also provided background information on parliamentary situations and the positions of the current presidential administration and public and private interest groups. A Fact Sheet containing a more comprehensive analysis of major legislation was published as circumstances warranted. Issue Report, circulated during election years, briefed members on campaign issues and election strategy. Special Report was issued periodically as background and analysis of controversial issues while Record Votes provided a quarterly breakdown of all record votes taken in the House. Finally, the Staff Bulletin, a weekly publication, reported on committee actions, hearings and markups, members' projects, and notice of important federal agency rulings. Excerpts from constituent mail were also published in the bulletin.
The Campaign File documents DSG support for key House of Representatives election campaigns as well as information concerning Democratic Party candidates in presidential and Senate campaigns. The Chronological File records the flow of political and legislative events through summaries of activities and group publications. The Subject File, the largest series in Part I, also contains the greatest detail on policy issues, including civil rights and the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party's challenge to seat delegates at the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Other issues detailed in the Subject File include congressional reorganization and reform and tax policy. Administrative records of the DSG are also located in the Subject File. The Printed Matter series contains supplemental publications related to subjects studied by the DSG.
To achieve its goals, the DSG also organized its own whip system to assist the Democratic Party whip coordinate votes on key legislation. Whip files are located in the Subject File. Simultaneously, DSG leaders challenged congressional rules, working to bring greater transparency to Congress and revisions to the seniority and committee systems. Through these combined efforts, documented primarily in the Subject File, the DSG provided the sustained and coordinated machinery that helped to pass the major civil rights and social legislation of the John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson administrations.
Part II
The Administrative File of Part II complements the Subject File of Part I in documenting the operation and funding of the DSG. The Administrative File includes election records for chair and executive committee members as well as task force organization and meeting records. Day-to-day operations were the purview of the executive director as reflected in the Chronological File. Included in this series is material of all variety documenting organizational activities and policy issues as they developed.
As the DSG evolved and the views of its members diverged, emphasis shifted to nonpartisan research services. In the 1970s and 1980s, under executive director Richard Conlon, DSG research publications became a primary function of the organization. Contained in the Research Publications series is the distillation of information provided by the DSG research arm for its members. The DSG Fact Sheet, Issue Report, DSG Legislative Report, and Staff Bulletin aimed for impartiality. The Special Report, issued ad hoc, remained partisan. The Daily Report lists the floor schedule of the House and summarizes anticipated amendments. Record Votes provides detailed analysis of votes taken during each session of Congress.
The Services and Activities series documents the administrative and campaign support provided to members, including freshman orientation seminars on setting up an office on Capitol Hill, handling constituent mail, and committee assignments. A DSG Campaign Fund was established as a political affiliate to raise funds and provide assistance in targeted election campaigns. Campaign files in the Services and Activities series treat the resulting support for Democratic Party candidates on presidential as well as congressional levels and the response of Democrats to Republican Party campaign arguments. DSG whip system records are located in the Services and Activities series.
The Subject File of Part II documents the issues tackled by the DSG. Files on civil rights include testimony from clergy and students on the moral conduct of participants in the 1965 Selma-Montgomery civil rights march in Alabama and records relating to the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party that complement the records in Part I of the Subject File.
Other files from the 1960s and 1970s feature DSG efforts to end American involvement in the Vietnam war, redress a perceived imbalance of power between Congress and the Executive, enact campaign finance reform and consumer protections, and defeat Republican opposition to federal programs on domestic poverty, the environment, health, education, and civil rights. Of note in the Subject File from the period is a survey conducted in 1979 by the DSG on White House staff performance during the Jimmy Carter administration.
Prominent as themes during the 1980s are budget, tax, and economic proposals by the Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush administrations, along with arms control and war power issues.
The DSG also concentrated on reform of House rules and worked to revive the dormant Democratic Caucus as the basic arbiter of Democratic policy in that body. Group leaders headed committees to study and propose reforms that would adjust the seniority system, open committee meetings to the public, allow recorded votes on floor amendments, require secret ballot votes on committee chairs at the start of each Congress, and give junior members a voice in committees. Among the relevant files in the Subject File series are the records for the Committee on Organization, Study and Review, chaired by Julia Butler Hansen in 1971; records for the Select Committee on Committees, chaired by Richard Bolling in 1973; records of the Commission on Administrative Review, chaired by David R. Obey in 1976; and material pertaining to the Second Select Committee on Committees, chaired by Jerry Patterson in 1979.
The Formerly Restricted series in Part II includes correspondence and memoranda, meeting records, reports, and printed matter from the period 1986-1995.
Part III
Part III consists of files that are continuations of and fill gaps in Parts I and II publication runs. The DSG Legislative Report series comprises the bulk of Part III and supplements material from Part I. Issues of Fact Sheet and Daily Report and the Research Publications series supplement material in Parts I and II. Issues of Issue Reports from the Miscellany series supplement Issue Reports in Part I.
Research publications issued to members of Congress, correspondence, memoranda, draft legislation, whip notices, and miscellany.
Reports, polling data, campaign manuals and literature, fund-raising files, correspondence and memoranda, photographs, and newspaper clippings and media coverage of presidential, Senate, and House of Representative elections.
Summaries of Democratic Study Group activities and publications.
Research material, correspondence and memoranda, briefing books, draft legislation, legal documents, government records, voting and hearing records, committee and caucus records, press releases, media files, and news clippings concerning the political and legislative activities of the Democratic Study Group along with administrative records of the organization.
Pamphlets, booklets, reports, and related material.
Federal benefit data for congressional districts.
Bylaws, election results, committee records, financial and personnel records, legal documents, correspondence, reports, studies, surveys, promotional material, news clippings and scrapbooks.
Research publications, memoranda, notes, and related material.
Publications prepared for members, indexes, and bibliographies.
Political election campaign records, training materials for freshmen orientation, office management, legislative issues, and whip system records.
Correspondence and memoranda, briefing books, position papers, resolutions and rule making, legal documents, government records, voting and hearing records, committee and caucus records, research materials, draft legislation, surveys, press releases and media files, news clippings and printed matter.
Correspondence and memoranda, meeting records, reports, and printed matter.
Issues of DSG Legislative Report, a weekly summary of bills and amendments scheduled for action that week.
Compilations of voting record analyses and other opposition research for use in congressional and national election campaigns.
Daily notification of bills and amendments scheduled for action that day.
Publication analyzing major legislation.
Bibliography compilation and Research Memoranda.
Histories of the Democratic Study Group, Issue Report issues, agency contact and interest group lists, and a tax reform booklet.
The papers of Faith Berry (1939-2017), excluding research material, cover the period 1963-2009, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1971 to 1983. The papers concern Berry's research on the life and literary career of poet Langston Hughes, her collaboration with pioneering African American literature scholar J. Saunders Redding on an anthology of his works, her membership on the National Association for the Advancement of Colored (NAACP) Task Force on Africa (1976-1977), and her work as a television scriptwriter. Berry's involvement in the women's movement is also documented, principally her membership on the President's Advisory Committee for Women, her contract work with the Department of Labor Women's Bureau (1979-1980), and her attendance at the United Nations Decade for Women Mid-Decade Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark (1980). The collection is organized into two parts. Further description of each part follows.
Part I
Part I, excluding research material, spans the years 1963-1984, and is organized into five series: Langston Hughes, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People Task Force on Africa, Women's Issues, Kissinger in Retrospect, and Oversize.
The Langston Hughes series consists in part of files generated through Berry's decade-long research on the poet's life and work. The Langston Hughes (1901-1967) files include correspondence, photocopies of research material, a program from a memorial service, and various articles written by Berry about Hughes. Correspondence consists of letters to federal, state, and local agencies concerning Hughes's birth and possible marriage, his parents' marriage, the death of an infant sibling, and his father's life after separating from Hughes's mother. Correspondence also includes Berry's Freedom of Information Act requests for documents located among the State Department records at the National Archives and Records Administration concerning Hughes's alleged communist activities. Photocopied material includes a lengthy run of correspondence between Hughes and Rinehart and Company publishers between 1953 and 1960. Berry received access to this correspondence from Theodore S. Amussen, a former vice-president of the company and later editor-in-chief at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. Finally, the research files include an original program from a memorial service for Hughes held on 25 May 1967 at the Benta Funeral Home in Harlem.
Berry's research culminated in the publication of Langston Hughes: Before and Beyond Harlem in 1983, and her papers include published reviews, a certificate of copyright registration, and a copyedited manuscript of the book. While researching and publishing on Hughes's life, Berry worked to promote public awareness and appreciation of the poet within the Washington, D.C., community and beyond. The collection includes a script from a 1979 radio program honoring Hughes, written, narrated, and produced by Berry. Also included are two District of Columbia City Council resolutions honoring Hughes, which were passed in 1979 and 1982 largely through Berry's efforts.
The second series concerns Berry's membership between 1976 and 1977 on NAACP Task Force on Africa. The NAACP board of directors created the task force in September 1976, commissioning it to conduct a thorough study of current conditions in Africa and to advise the board in the creation of an African policy. Berry was selected as a member of the task force in part because of her expertise in the field of communications. Organized into four teams, the task force visited southern African countries during the spring of 1977 in order to meet with African leaders and gather firsthand information. Berry visited Botswana, Rhodesia, Tanzania, and Zambia as a member of the team chaired by Franklin Williams, president of the Phelps-Stokes Fund and former United States ambassador to Ghana.
Papers relating to the task force document the group's organization and activities and include correspondence, memoranda, drafts of reports, minutes, itineraries, photographs, and newspaper clippings. Subject files, consisting largely of printed matter, provide background information on Africa in general and the countries visited by the Williams team specifically. Printed material includes publications from the African Fund and the American Committee on Africa; government publications made available to the task force by the African countries visited; and material published by various African nationalist organizations such as the United African National Council, the Zimbabwe African National Union, and the Zimbabwe United People's Organization. The subject files also contain photocopies of official correspondence and reports, transcripts of interviews, and miscellaneous printed matter documenting Berry's research on African media as well as original pamphlets, information sheets, and application forms she collected on American mercenaries employed in the Rhodesian army.
The Women's Issues series concerns Berry's involvement in the women's movement through her employment with the President's Advisory Committee for Women (PACW) and her contract work with the Department of Labor Women's Bureau between 1979 and 1980. The PACW, chaired by Lynda Johnson Robb, was established by Jimmy Carter in 1979 to serve as heir to the National Advisory Committee for Women, formerly headed by Bella S. Abzug. Berry served as media coordinator for the PACW from July 1979 until March 1980, a tenure represented in the Women's Issues series by correspondence, memoranda, minutes, proposals, and newspaper clippings. Following her resignation from PACW, Berry undertook contract work for the Department of Labor Women's Bureau where she wrote speeches for the bureau's director, Alexis M. Herman, and oversaw various press and media projects. Memoranda, proposals, invoices, and drafts of speeches document her work for the bureau.
In 1980 Berry attended the United Nations Decade for Women Mid-Decade Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark, as a representative of the National Council of Negro Women (NCNW) to the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) Forum. Immediately before traveling to Copenhagen, Berry visited Morocco as the NCNW's representative in the Transcentury Women-to-Women exchange program. The Women's Issues series contains brochures, programs, schedules, reports, notes, press releases, and newspaper clippings from the Mid-Decade conference, the NCNW Second International Seminar, and the Transcentury Women-to-Women program.
Subject files complete the Women's Issues series. These consist largely of research materials, including newspaper clippings, magazine articles, papers, reports, notes, and miscellaneous printed matter on such issues as education, employment, the Equal Rights Amendment, military, minority women, and social security. Various women's conferences between 1976 and 1982 are documented through programs, proceedings, newspaper clippings, reports, and memoranda. More than half of these conferences focused specifically on minority women.
Printed ephemera scattered throughout the Women's Issues series provides insight into the women's movement between 1976 and 1982. Brochures, leaflets, and pamphlets reveal how women organized themselves on the local, national, and international levels and document issues of greatest concern. The PACW files include an unpublished, in-house directory of more than 275 women's organizations in existence between 1979 and 1980. The directory consists of detailed information sheets on the nature and services of each organization and occasionally includes publications and other printed material issued by the organization. Printed ephemera collected by Berry in Copenhagen during the Mid-Decade Conference includes material on communications, education, feminism, health, child care, peace, ecology, human rights, politics, violence, and work. Some of these materials are organized by subject, while other files pertaining to a specific country or region are arranged alphabetically by place of origin. More than thirty-five countries or regions are represented. Finally, the Women's Issues subject files include printed matter from more than sixty women's organizations and publications in the United States. This material is arranged alphabetically by name of organization or publication.
The penultimate series, Kissinger in Retrospect, consists of a working script for a documentary program produced by WETA/TV-FM public television in Washington, D.C., which first aired in 1977. Berry served as a researcher for the script, written by Stanley Karnow, which examined the political career of former secretary of state Henry Kissinger.
The final series of Part I consists of an Oversize consisting of a resolution of the District of Columbia City Council recognizing Berry's work towards promoting public awareness and appreciation of Langston Hughes within the Washington, D.C. community, and posters pulled from the Women's Issues series.
Notable correspondents in the collection include Theodore M. Berry, Broadus N. Butler, Alexis M. Herman, Franklin Williams, and Margaret Bush Wilson.
Part II
Part II spans, excluding research material, 1970-2009 and is organized into four series: Langston Hughes, J. Saunders Redding, Miscellany, and Oversize.
This Langston Hughes series in Part II supplements and expands on material in the Langston Hughes series of Part I. This Langston Hughes series includes files, mostly correspondence, on the two literary executors of the Langston Hughes estate, playwright and theater founder George Houston Bass, and poet Arna Bontemps. Also part of the series are files on Hughes's friends and associates Berry talked to, corresponded with, or researched while preparing Langston Hughes: Before and Beyond Harlem, and persons she consulted while writing the book; including Edmund Randolph Biddle, Maxin Lieber, Hollis Ralph Lynch, Charlotte Osgood Mason, Louis Thompson Patterson, Ted Posten, Harold Rome, Elsie Roxborough, Marie Seton, Ella Winter, and Thomas Wirth.
Berry did two stints, in 1987 and 1992, as guest editor of the Langston Hughes Review, a publication of the Langston Hughes Society founded after the poet's death by George Houston Bass. Her first editorial product for the Review was a 1987 commemorative issue entirely focused on Hughes himself. Writers whose articles she edited for this issue include George Houston Bass, J. F. Briere, Victor Carrabino, Michel Fabre, Ellen Conroy Kennedy, Takao Kitamura, Nancy Morejon, Ugo Rubeo, and Amritjit Singh.
The 1992 commemorative issue of the Langston Hughes Review that Berry edited was entirely focused on pioneering African American literary critic, professor, and fellow Cincinnatian Darwin T. Turner (1931-1991), who took out of favor Black writers, such as poet Paul Lawrence Dunbar and historical novelist Frank Yerby, as serious subjects worthy of criticism. Writers Berry worked with for the issue include J. R. Berry, James C. Hall, Mae Henderson, Wilfred D. Samuels, Fred L. Standly, and Zelma R. West.
Throughout the Langston Hughes series are files related to Berry's search for Hughes's more radical and socially critical poems and prose in obscure literary magazines to solidify Hughes's reputation as a revolutionary writer. Berry's findings were published as Good Morning Revolution: Uncollected Writings of Social Protest in two editions (1973 and 1992). Prominent among Hughes's protest writings was his 1932 book Scottsboro Limited. A file in this series includes this book and material relating to efforts to free the Scottsboro Boys, nine Black youths unjustly charged with raping two white women on a freight train in Alabama.
The Part II Langston Hughes series also includes his Federal Bureau of Investigation case file, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, that delves into Hughes's alleged Communist activities, affiliations, and sympathies. A related file includes Berry's correspondence with FBI officials, notably Director Clarence M. Kelley.
The J. Saunders Redding series includes material Berry compiled as editor of A Scholar's Conscience, an anthology of Redding's writings published in 1991. This includes correspondence, drafts, and, notably, writings Berry did not select for the book. J. Saunders Redding (1906-1988), considered the dean of African American literary critics, was a writer, educator, and, when appointed a visiting professor at Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, in 1947, the first African American to teach in the Ivy League. In 1970, he became the first African American to hold an endowed chair at an Ivy League institution, at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.
The Miscellany series documents Berry's association with two writers' groups, the National Writers Union and Washington Independent Writers. The series also includes Berry's writings for English and French language publications such as Cosmopolitan, Crisis, Freedomways, Harper's Bazaar, Jeune Afrique, The Nation, Negro Digest, The New Republic, New York Times Magazine, Pariscope, and Washingtonian.
The Oversize series of Part II consists of two photographs of Hughes from the 1930s, with a child in the Soviet Union and with a German Shepherd dog on a beach, respectively.
Correspondence, photocopies of research material, copyedited manuscript, book reviews, radio transcript, newspaper clippings, and other printed matter pertaining to Berry's research on the life of poet Langston Hughes and her efforts to increase public recognition of Hughes's literary contributions as a twentieth-century man of letters.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, drafts of reports, printed matter, background material, photographs, and newspaper clippings pertaining to Berry's participation on the NAACP Task Force on Africa between 1976 and 1977.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, invoices, reports, speeches, press releases, brochures, printed matter, and newspaper clippings relating to Berry's work with the President's Advisory Committee for Women and the Department of Labor Women's Bureau; her attendance at the United Nations Decade for Women Mid-Decade Conference, the Second International Seminar of the National Council of Negro Women, and the Transcentury Women-to-Women Program; and her research on women's issues between 1977 and 1983.
Working script for a documentary program written and produced by Berry for WETA/TV-FM public television in Washington, D.C.
Posters and a printed resolution.
Correspondence, poems, published and draft articles, photographs, research files, Federal Bureau of Investigation case files, books, newspaper and magazine clippings, and miscellaneous material related to Faith Berry's research for her biography of the poet Langston Hughes and for commemorative projects based on the life and works of the poet.
Published and draft articles by and about Redding, correspondence, pasteup book chapters, photographs, speeches, topical files, and miscellaneous material related to A Scholar's Conscience, an anthology of Redding's writings Berry edited.
Files documenting Berry's consulting business and her employment at the National Gallery of Art and WETA, a public broadcasting station, topical files, and her published writings.
Photographs.
The papers of William Edgar Borah (1865-1940) span the period 1905-1940, with the bulk of the material from 1912-1940. The collection constitutes the record of his career in the Senate, which began in 1907 and ended with his death in 1940, at the midpoint of his sixth consecutive term. The papers cover virtually every aspect of Borah's political life and include extensive files on antitrust legislation, constitutional interpretation, and foreign policy. There is little in the collection about his youth or his career as an attorney in Idaho, and most of his Senate office files for the years from 1907 to 1912 were destroyed when his office was moved from the basement of the Capitol to the Senate office building. A collection of Borah papers at the Idaho State Historical Society treats his law practice and political activities from 1890 to 1907, and a collection of scrapbooks at the University of Idaho Library covers the period 1904-1940. A microfilm copy of the scrapbooks is held by the Library of Congress.
The General Office File, the largest series, is organized by subject and correspondent within twelve-month increments. Files on politics, Russia, disarmament, and agriculture reveal the range of Borah's interests, although files that appear to be commonplace, such as invitations and requests for speeches, often contain significant correspondence on substantive issues. Significant topical categories include files titled "documents," containing correspondence with constituents concerning government publications; "newspapers," referring to articles in newspapers and periodicals on Borah; and "manuscripts," relating to papers sent to Borah by authors seeking assistance in publishing their work.
The World Court, the League of Nations, military activities in Latin America, routine army matters, legislation, politics, the Red Scare, universal military training, and Russia are topics that dominate the General Office File from the World War I era to the Depression. Among the principal themes in the papers from the 1920s are Borah's attempts to secure American recognition of the Soviet Union, his support of measures that would outlaw war, and his reactions to domestic political and economical unrest. Material relating to Franklin D. Roosevelt, the New Deal, and the National Recovery Administration take up an increasingly larger portion of the files during the 1930s, as do subjects such as China's war with Japan, the Lausanne Settlement, and neutrality legislation.
Correspondents upon whom Borah relied for advice on state and local political issues include Evan Evans, James H. Gipson, Frank Robert Gooding, John W. Hart, James H. Hawley, Ray McKaig, and Irvin E. Rockwell. Files on topics such as politics, antilynching, Russia, the Justice Department, treaties, and the World Court include correspondence with Jane Addams, Edwin Borchard, Henry M. Dawes, Leonidas Carstarphen Dyer, Hamilton Fish, Samuel Gompers, Norman Hapgood, Will H. Hays, John Haynes Holmes, James Weldon Johnson, Frank B. Kellogg, Frank Knox, Henry Cabot Lodge, Amos Pinchot, Gifford Pinchot, Raymond Robins, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Thomas Joseph Walsh, William Allen White, and Woodrow Wilson.
The Subject File contains material on a wide variety of topics, although most of it relates to Borah's specific legislative and political interests. Included are important files pertaining to treaties, appointments, Department of State budgets, and the major problems of American foreign policy in the era between the two world wars. The Subject File complements the Public Opinion File, which contains letters from the public on matters such as neutrality legislation, the World Court, the embargo of Spain, and New Deal reform efforts.
The Speeches, Statements, and Articles File is perhaps the most comprehensive series for exploring Borah's positions on public issues, for his attitudes are documented more thoroughly in his speeches and public statements than in his characteristically terse correspondence. Borah regarded public speaking and debate as a critical ingredient of public life. His speeches, press releases, and public statements were prepared with meticulous care, and many of the research materials that formed the basis of his speeches are organized in subject files within this series.
Borah's activities in behalf of Idaho constituents are documented throughout the collection, but four series representing major aspects of constituent casework are particularly salient for understanding this feature of his career. The Pension File and Veterans Claims File deal exclusively with the problem of individual constituents; the Patronage File and Land Utilization File contain materials relating to broad social and political matters as well as assistance to individuals. The Land Utilization File ranges from applications for homesteads to research materials for legislation pertaining to the public domain. Many of the constituent requests in these files were merely routed to the appropriate executive agency for attention, but Borah occasionally noted his recommendations and policy judgements when transmitting a request.
The Borah for President Committee series illustrates the steps taken by a small coterie of loyal admirers to obtain the 1936 Republican presidential nomination for Borah. Much of the correspondence consists of exchanges between Carl G. Bachmann, chairman of the committee, and various contributors to the campaign. Rounding out the collection is a small group of correspondence and other papers of Grace Hileman, Borah's secretary. The correspondence, largely personal in nature, touches on matters of interest to Borah.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent, memoranda, reports, newspaper clippings, legislative bills, and miscellaneous material.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent. Subdivided initially into Post Office patronage and patronage concerning other government agencies and government positions.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent.
Letters received and carbons of letters sent, newspaper clippings, memoranda, statements, printed matter.
Typed drafts and printed copies of speeches and statements, and copies of articles drafted by Borah.
Shorthand notebooks kept by Borah's administrative secretary listing chronologically the contents of letters received, and personal notebooks kept by Borah containing quotations from the founding fathers, facts concerning their lives from contemporary biographies, and data Borah extracted from newspapers, periodicals, and books.
Printed matter, legislative bills, scrapbooks, financial material, and biographical material.
Correspondence, ballots, cartoons, lists, editorials, financial material, newspaper clippings, press releases, and poetry.
Letters sent and received.
The papers of Irving Robert Kaufman (1910-1992) span the years 1934-1992 with the vast bulk of material dating after 1949, when Kaufman was appointed to the federal judiciary. The papers document his professional activities while serving for over forty years as a federal judge, first as a district judge and then as an appellate judge for the second circuit. Included are speeches and writings, correspondence, scrapbooks, material from American Bar Association committees that Kaufman chaired or served on, items from the Juvenile Justice Standards Project which he chaired, conference materials, court papers, and subject files. Personal and family papers are few.
The first two series are comprised of papers from Kaufman's two judgeships: the Southern District of New York (1949-1961) and the Second Circuit Court of Appeals (1961-1992). Each series is divided into two subseries: Court Papers and Office Files. The Court Papers from the Southern District of New York include transcripts of testimony, charges to juries, opinions, sentences, and appeals. Fourteen of Kaufman's district court cases appear in the Case Files, including two of his most famous and controversial cases: United States v. Rosenberg (1951 espionage trial of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg) and United States v. Bonanno (1959 trial of reputed gangsters who had met in Apalachin, New York). Materials related to these and other cases are also in the scrapbooks, the final series in the papers. Additional material concerning United States v. Rosenberg is under the case name in a Subject File. The Office Files for the Southern District of New York are quite small and consist of material from professional organizations, committees, conferences, and seminars. A collection of speeches, mostly written by others and used as a reference file by Kaufman, relate in large part to communism.
The Court Papers of the second series, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, are very few. The two case files present are composed primarily of memoranda between the judges. Also included are affirmances, dockets, and opinions. The extensive Office Files subseries for the Court of Appeals is comprised of Kaufman's papers from American Bar Association committees, the Juvenile Justice Standards Program, professional organizations, conferences and seminars, materials concerning the operation of the courthouse and the courts of the second circuit, reference papers, and correspondence with other judges. There is substantial correspondence between Kaufman and Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justice Tom C. Clark.
The Subject File contains most of Kaufman's correspondence with various individuals. Substantial correspondence is present between Kaufman and his longtime friend Simon H. Rifkind. There are also files on the Harvard Law School fellowship named in Kaufman's honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom bestowed on Kaufman, several law schools, news clippings, nonprofessional organizations, and topics of interest to Kaufman, such as drug abuse and cameras in the courtroom.
Kaufman's prolific writing was aided by his law clerks, as memoranda to them indicate. He published widely and delivered many speeches. The Speeches and Writings series has been split into several chronologically arranged sections: articles, book reviews, letters to the editor, research material, and speeches. Correspondence with publishers, readers, or event organizers is often included.
The final series is a set of three scrapbooks dating from 1951 to 1970. The books are filled with news clippings, most dating from Kaufman's service on the district court. The first volume and part of the second are devoted to the Rosenbergs' trial, appeals, and execution. With the help of a clipping service, Kaufman assembled items from many diverse sources. Other cases highlighted in the scrapbooks are United States v. Bonanno and Taylor v. Board of Education, the 1961 school desegregation case from New Rochelle, New York.
Case files, appeals, opinions, and sentences.
Correspondence, notebooks from meetings and conferences, a compilation of speeches and essays used as a reference file, and miscellaneous material.
Affirmances, case files, dockets, and opinions.
Correspondence, conference material, notebooks, reports, news clippings, photographs, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, news clippings, reports, press releases, and miscellaneous material.
Articles, book reviews, letters to the editor, research material, and speeches.
Case files of Buckley v. Littell and Turpin v. Mailet.
News clippings.
The papers of Robert Alphonso Taft (1889-1953) span the years 1885-1980, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1938-1953. The papers have been organized in the following series: Family Papers, Personal File, General Correspondence, Letters Sent, Political File, Legislative Papers, Subject File, Special Files, Speeches and Writings File, Business Papers, Miscellany, Addition, Oversize, and Top Secret.
Family Papers consist of correspondence and other material documenting the lives of four generations of Tafts. Major correspondents include Robert A. Taft's parents, Helen Herron Taft and William Howard Taft, his sister, Helen Taft Manning, his wife, Martha Wheaton Bowers Taft, and his son, Robert Taft (1917-1993). There is a sizable amount of biographical material on William H. Taft, twenty-seventh president of the United States, including printed matter and correspondence with numerous individuals, among them Henry Pringle, author of The Life and Work of William Howard Taft. The series also contains letters of condolence on the death of both parents.
The Personal File reflects Taft's early law career and civic engagements in Cincinnati, Ohio; his service during World War I, which included a close association with Herbert Hoover in Washington, D.C., and Paris; and his postwar occupational and political activities in Ohio until 1927.
The General Correspondence series contains letters and other material related to Taft's numerous business enterprises and associates, his colleagues in the United States Senate, and other friends and acquaintances. This series, as a separate filing unit, was terminated in 1945; thereafter correspondence was filed as political, legislative, or general, with political and legislative correspondence filed chronologically and general correspondence filed alphabetically by subject.
The Letters Sent series consists of Taft's replies to professional correspondence received. The series serves as a locator for incoming correspondence filed under Political File, Legislative Papers, or Subject File. Typed in the top margin of each page are cross references to the original item, subject matter, and often Taft's reason for responding.
The most significant series within the collection are Political File, Legislative Papers, and Subject File. They reflect the development of Taft's political career at both the state and national levels as well as his rise to leadership within the Republican party. The bulk of the Political File concerns Taft's campaigns for the United States Senate (1938-1950) and for the Republican presidential nomination (1940-1952), with over one-third of the series relating to his bid in 1952. Also notable are files concerning his years in the Ohio state legislature, organized labor's opposition to his Senate campaign of 1950, and its consequent investigation by Congress.
The Legislative Papers relate to matters of policy and legislation either proposed or enacted into law. They include correspondence, petitions, suggestions, and inquiries concerning programs and positions taken by Taft and the Republican party on local, state, and national issues not found in the more general Subject File. There are also published committee hearings and reports, files relating to individuals, and letters containing praise, criticism, or suggestions from political leaders and the public. Subjects of note include economics, labor, defense, foreign policy, finance and taxation, and veterans.
The Subject File represents a broad spectrum of topics concerning public affairs. The series was organized in Taft's senatorial office in 1946 and was used until his death in 1953. The papers, filed chronologically and thereunder alphabetically by subject, illustrate Taft's belief that a politician should not only work for the good of his constituents and the nation as a whole, but also provide moral leadership. On the whole, Taft was a staunch believer in party unity, but at times he was also capable of taking very independent positions on political issues. This paradoxical nature is reflected on the one hand by his intense opposition to certain policies of presidents Roosevelt, Truman, and Eisenhower and on the other hand by his wholehearted support for different policies by the same presidents.
The Special File consists of material on political figures. These include Thomas E. Dewey, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover, Harold E. Stassen, Adlai E. Stevenson (1900-1965), and Harry S. Truman.
The Speeches and Writings File represents a comprehensive collection of Taft's addresses, public statements, radio broadcasts, news releases, and published articles. They are arranged chronologically and thereunder alphabetically by type of material.
The Business Papers document Taft's financial investments, properties in Ohio and in Washington, D.C., philanthropic support for artistic and cultural institutions, personal finances, as well as estate papers of several Taft family members.
The Miscellany series contains appointment books, clippings, galley proofs and correspondence relating to Taft's 1951 publication A Foreign Policy for Americans, honorary degrees and citations for service, letters of condolence, material concerning both the Taft family summer home and a fish and game club in Canada, and also material documenting Taft's long relationship with his alma mater Yale University.
The Addition consists of family papers, general correspondence, political material, speeches and writings, business papers, and miscellaneous material. Of note are Martha Bowers Taft's political correspondence and speeches, illustrating her skill as campaigner and speaker in her own right as well as her more traditional role as politician's wife. There are letters from William H. Taft while chief justice of the Supreme Court to his son Robert Alphonso in which he discusses contemporary judicial topics. Also of interest is the file detailing the establishment of a memorial to the twenty-seventh president in Arlington National Cemetery. Robert A. Taft's life is chronicled by the files containing his speeches, records concerning the settling of his personal estate, clippings and other biographical material, as well as numerous letter of condolence written to both his wife and son Robert, Jr. The public's appreciation of Taft's life and achievements are evident in files documenting memorials to Taft in Cincinnati and Washington, D.C.
Oversize material consists of an architectural sketch, memorial resolutions in honor of Robert A. Taft, photostatic copies, and scrapbooks.
Letters sent and received by family members. Includes posthumous correspondence and biographical and photographic material relating to William H. Taft.
Correspondence and records concerning Taft's law practice and civic activities in Cincinnati, Ohio, the selective service, United States Food Administration in Washington, D.C., and American Relief Administration in Paris, France.
Letters sent and received and miscellaneous material related to Taft's business enterprises, Senate colleagues, and other friends. Also included is a container of general correspondence related to Martha Bowers Taft.
Copies of replies to professional correspondence.
Letters received and sent, Republican party activities, statements, news releases, clippings, and texts of radio broadcasts, campaign literature, petitions, primary and general election materials, states subject files, minorities activities, patronage matters, and voter lists.
Legislative correspondence, position statements, local, state, and national Republican programs, and congressional committee hearings and reports.
Letters received and sent, memoranda, notes, research material, printed matter, and publications by Taft.
Correspondence, statements, press releases, campaign literature, and election material concerning political activities and presidential nominations of Thomas E. Dewey, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Herbert Hoover, Harold E. Stassen, Adlai E. Stevenson (1900-1965), and Harry S. Truman.
Holograph and typewritten drafts, corrected proofs, and mimeographed copies relating to speeches, articles, books, and miscellaneous writings, including some by Martha Bowers Taft.
Correspondence, business and property records, legal papers, certificates, statements, receipts, profit-loss trial balances, estate matters, check stub books, bank statements and canceled checks, and investment records.
Appointment books, secretaries' notebooks, Christmas cards, property records in Canada, letters of condolence, material pertaining to Taft's association with Yale University, and miscellaneous material.
Family papers, general correspondence, political material, speeches and writings, business papers, and miscellaneous material.
Awards, certificates, memorial resolutions, photostatic copies, and scrapbooks.
Material containing security classified information.
The correspondence of Joseph Brodsky (1940-1996) spans the years 1965-1972 and consists of twenty holograph, signed letters, cards, and telegrams, some containing unpublished verses and drawings, from the former poet laureate. This early correspondence is addressed to Kira Fedorovna Samosiuk, an intimate friend of the poet, and while written largely in Russian, also contains an early attempt at verse in English and an unpublished poem in Polish. The letters reflect on a close and important relationship from the poet's early years as well as document broader aspects of Soviet life.
The papers of Ernest Joseph King (1878-1956) extend chiefly from 1908 to his death in 1956, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1936-1952. The collection consists of correspondence, subject files, memoranda, reports, orders, notes, and associated material organized in six series: Orders to Duty; General Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article, and Book File; Miscellany; and 2023 Addition.
In the early years of his career, King was a submarine officer and from 1923 to 1926 he was commander of the Submarine Base in New London, Connecticut. There are several folders of material for this tour of duty, the most important of which documents the salvaging of the S-51 sunk off Block Island in September 1925. King was in charge of the successful raising of the S-51, considered an outstanding accomplishment as it was generally thought that a submarine could not be raised from a depth of 125-130 feet of water. For this he was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal.
From submarines, King moved into aviation, qualifying as a naval pilot in 1927. In 1933 he was appointed chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics, serving in that post until 1936, when he assumed command of the Aircraft Base and Aircraft Scouting Force in San Diego. King was promoted to vice admiral in 1938 and given command of all the aircraft carriers of the fleet. Files for this period of his life are a valuable source for studying the growth and development of military aviation.
King's papers for the World War II period and beyond are particularly significant. As commander in chief of the United States Fleet and chief of Naval Operations, Admiral King attended the Atlantic Charter Meeting (1941), the Quebec Conference (1943), the Cairo and Teheran Conferences (1943), and the Yalta Conference (1945). After the war, various individuals frequently sought information from him concerning these conferences and also about particular aspects of United States military and naval operations. Wherever possible, King was ready to cooperate and supply essential information. For example, he explained to Quentin James Reynolds and Robert E. Sherwood the origins of General James Harold Doolittle's 1942 air raid on Tokyo. Marine Corps General Merritt Austin Edson was interested in learning the story behind the Guadalcanal campaign. King responded with a letter of four pages that detailed his determined efforts, over strong opposition, to strike the Japanese in the Solomon Islands immediately after the Battle of Midway (June 1942). The letter also reveals the evolution of King's philosophy of Pacific strategy, beginning with his personal experiences at the Asiatic station during the early years of the century. Other correspondence in this vein is that of Walter Muir Whitehill, coauthor of Fleet Admiral King: A Naval Record (1952); Merritt Austin Edson for Pacific Island strategy; Bernard M. Baruch, on international control of atomic weapons; Ferdinand Eberstadt, on national security organization; and Richard S. Edwards, on matters relating to the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Material in the Subject File supplements much of this correspondence.
The Speech, Article, and Book File contain manuscript drafts of Fleet Admiral King and the rough notes for the book. Also in the file drafts and final copies of King's speeches and lectures. Material from his teaching days at Annapolis and items such as his thesis written at the Naval War College (1932) on “The Influence of the National Policy on the Strategy of a War” show the development of his thought in the field of world politics.
Important correspondents include Henry Harley Arnold, C. R. Atlee, Bernard M. Baruch, Omar Nelson Bradley, Oliver Lyttleton, Viscount Chandos, Mark W. Clark, Charles A. Edison, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Douglas Southall Freeman, William Frederick Halsey, Cordell Hull, Frank Knox, P. W. Litchfield, George C. Marshall, Louis Mountbatten, Earl Mountbatten of Burma, Chester W. Nimitz, Charles Frederick Algernon Portal, Viscount Portal of Hungerford, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Dorothy Thompson, Harry S. Truman, and Orville Wright.
The 2023 Addition includes a 1991 issue of Pull Together, a newsletter of the Naval Historical Foundation and the Naval History Center, with the article “Admiral King talks about Allied Strategy, July 1943,” and a declassified copy of King's 1947 speech “Some Aspects of the High Command in World War II.”
Orders to duty.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, telegrams, invitations, memoranda, and miscellaneous attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, photographs, and printed material.
Handwritten drafts, typescripts, printed copies, and other material including related correspondence.
Printed matter, memorabilia, photographs, newspaper clippings, and other material.
Newsletter article and speech.
The papers of Robert Strange McNamara (1916-2009) span the years 1934-2009, with the bulk concentrated between 1968 and 2005. McNamara was a business executive with Ford Motor Company before his appointment as United States secretary of defense in 1961. In 1968, McNamara resigned as defense secretary to become president of the World Bank. The collection is composed of two supplementary parts. Part I documents McNamara's private and public life primarily following his departure as secretary of defense, including his terms as president of the World Bank, his role as counselor and adviser to various private corporations and nonprofit organizations and foundations, and his role as public statesman advocating solutions for the critical domestic and foreign policy issues of the times. The series in Parts I and II are similar, and while their proportions vary, the content of respective series remains largely the same with the notable exception of files in Part II dedicated to the analysis of the Cuban Missile Crisis and the Vietnam War and the publication of his books In Retrospect and Argument without End. Further descriptions of each part follow.
Part I
Part I of the McNamara Papers spans the years 1958-2003, with most of the material dated between 1968 and 2000. The papers in Part I highlight his position as president of the World Bank and a member on the boards of directors and advisory councils of numerous private corporations and nongovernmental institutions. While the papers include some material concerning his tenure as secretary of defense, Part I contains limited documentation for the years prior to his service at the World Bank. Part I is organized into the following series: Correspondence, World Bank, Organizations, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, Classified, and Oversize.
The Correspondence series contains letters received and copies of replies. It was McNamara's practice to handwrite many of his replies in the upper right-hand corner of the incoming letters that were then photocopied for later transcription. Although his handwriting is sometimes difficult to decipher, the photocopy is often the only copy of his correspondence that remains in the collection. The series informs on a broad scope of McNamara's personal friendships, professional connections, and advocacy issues providing an overview of his relationships and interests that are more fully developed in other series of the collection. Prominent topics include defense and foreign policy issues, arms control and nuclear policy, the World Bank, foreign and domestic politics, economic policy, and international development as well as letters from the public that reflect the variation of popular opinion regarding McNamara's legacy as a leading strategist of the Vietnam War and director of the World Bank. Included among McNamara's friends, colleagues, and media representatives noted in the series are Graham T. Allison, James G. Blight, McGeorge Bundy, William P. Bundy, Lloyd N. Cutler, Alain C. Enthoven, Orville L. Freeman, Kurt Gottfried, Pamela Digby Churchill Hayward Harriman, W. Averell Harriman, Paul Hendrickson, Henry Kissinger, Frans M. Lurvink, Helmut Schmidt, Sargent Shriver, Gerard C. Smith, Carl E. Taylor, Stewart L. Udall, Cyrus R. Vance, and Barbara Ward.
Following his resignation as secretary of defense, McNamara served as president of the World Bank from 1968 to 1981. The World Bank series provides insight into the policies and operations of the bank and its affiliated institutions during McNamara's terms as president. The series is a study of the organizational reforms introduced by McNamara as the bank changed from a project-oriented investment bank to a development institution at the service of its member states while simultaneously increasing the amount of capital financing needed to accomplish its goals. Under his leadership, the bank targeted poverty reduction, increased funding for health, food, and education programs, and instituted new methods of accountability for budgeted projects. The series contains memoranda, reports, program and policy papers, and other material documenting the bank's administrative structure and strategic planning projects as well as personnel and public relations issues.
Organizational restructuring was constant during McNamara's presidency, and several files contain material related to staff grievances and other commentary concerning institutional reorganization. Of particular interest are a set of notes and notebooks kept by McNamara of his conversations and field visits. The notes of conversations record McNamara's exchanges with and reactions to various officials and directors of the World Bank and world leaders in meetings concerning the operations of the bank. The notes of his field visits are filed alphabetically by country and record meetings with representatives of member countries and other entities, exclusive of the United States. Memoranda for the record were prepared along with briefing memoranda and background material, some with handwritten notations by McNamara. Items marked “impressions” are personal notes written by McNamara for his own reference and were not distributed to bank staff. The series also includes technical notes containing background papers and reports and a country file of correspondence, memoranda, reports, and policy papers providing financial analysis of the bank's development policies.
Upon his retirement from the World Bank in 1981, McNamara served on the boards of directors and advisory councils of a variety of private corporations and nonprofit organizations and foundations principally focusing on issues of the environment, East-West relations, arms control and nuclear weapons, population and development, especially as it affected the Third World, and world hunger. The Organization series contains the records of McNamara's transactions with these institutions and is arranged alphabetically by name of organization. Prominent organizations include the African Development Bank, Aspen Institute, Atlantic Council of the United States, Battelle Memorial Institute, Brookings Institution, Council on Foreign Relations, Enterprise Foundation, Global Coalition for Africa, Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust, InterAction Council, International Irrigation Management Institute, Kettering Foundation, National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, Overseas Development Council, and the Pugwash Conference on Science and World Affairs. The records illuminate the internal operations and policy disputes within many of the organizations with which McNamara was associated. The series contains correspondence, notes and notebooks, policy papers, studies and reports, agenda and briefing books, background material, and other items that chronicle McNamara's travel arrangements and attendance at various conferences, meetings, symposia, and workshops in his capacity as corporate adviser on behalf of the organizations. Drafts and typescripts from speaking engagements and other presentations supplement similar material arranged in the Speeches and Writings series.
McNamara worked independently on many of the same issues he supported at the World Bank and as an organizational representative. Among these the most urgent for him was the threat of nuclear weapons. The Subject File contains material on arms control and nuclear weapons that chronicle McNamara's efforts on behalf of treaties and strategies designed to reduce the risk of nuclear war. The series also includes material commemorating the twenty-fifth anniversary in 1987 of the Cuban Missile Crisis, with reflections on the decisions that prevented an exchange of nuclear missiles between the United States and the Soviet Union. Other material associated with McNamara's tenure as secretary of defense include both defense department records and papers relating to post-defense issues. The latter includes briefs, depositions, and other court records relating to McNamara's testimony in the 1984 trial of Westmoreland v. CBS, Inc. Though he had consistently refused to respond to questions concerning the Vietnam War, McNamara, by agreeing to testify on Westmoreland's behalf and submitting an affidavit at the trial, compelled the need for deposition and invited cross-examination. Under oath and for the public record, McNamara, for the first time since he left office as defense secretary, was forced to defend his role in the formulation of the government's Vietnam strategy. In a letter written to newly elected President Bill Clinton, November 23, 1992, located within the “presidential administrations and campaigns” files, McNamara provides a hopeful coda to the controversy stating, “For me–and I believe for the nation as well–the Vietnam War finally ended the day you were elected president.”
In addition to his efforts towards eliminating nuclear weapons, McNamara also sought to alleviate global poverty by supporting economic development in Third World countries. While president of the World Bank, McNamara became committed to fostering programs designed to break the cycle of poverty afflicting many of the world's developing nations, particularly food, health, and population problems in Africa. The Subject File contains material relating to these issues under the “geopolitical file” heading. The series also includes material referencing attempts to eliminate the cause of the parasitic disease onchocerciasis or river blindness in Africa, a program originated by the World Bank during McNamara's presidency. In pursuit of his “visions” for a better world, McNamara became a frequent traveler on a circuit of conferences and meetings that defined his agenda as outlined above, which papers are located in the Subject File.
McNamara addressed the issues of war and peace most directly in his articles, books, and speeches. The Speeches and Writings series contains correspondence, drafts and typescripts, background and research material, and editorial comments largely relating to these public statements and writings. Articles written by McNamara explore themes such as the imbalance of population growth and economic development and the threat of nuclear arms in the modern world. The series contains limited documentation regarding the publication of McNamara's books with the exception of Blundering into Disaster, a plea for nuclear reduction and arms control. Files related to his speeches, lectures, and participation in symposia contain correspondence concerning booking and travel arrangements, drafts and typescripts, and printed copies. A file titled “printed and typescript copies,” labeled “statement file” by McNamara, serves as a partially indexed selective compilation of his speeches and writings.
In addition to McNamara's speeches and writings, the series also includes papers concerning his radio and television appearances and interviews as well as the speeches and writings of others. In November 1983, following the ABC television broadcast of The Day After, a fictional portrayal of the effects of nuclear war on an American town, McNamara joined a studio panel in reviewing the film and discussing the consequences of such a war. Public comments and reactions to McNamara's performance, contained in the Speeches and Writings series, reflect the political debate that the film and commentary provoked. After many years removed from the defense department, McNamara became less reluctant to grant interviews and agreed to participate in a number of official oral history interviews conducted by the Office of the Secretary of Defense Historical Office, which transcripts, as well as those of other interviews, are located in Speeches and Writings. The series also includes material gathered for Deborah Shapley's 1993 biography of McNamara, Promise and Power, reflecting the controversy it generated.
In addition to containing McNamara's appointment books and files on recreation, travel, and real estate, among other topics, the Miscellany series includes material concerning McNamara's first wife, Margaret, founder of the nonprofit children's literacy organization Reading Is Fundamental. The series includes condolence letters and other memorial items occasioned by her death in 1981 as well as a set of interviews conducted by Suzan Ruth Travis-Cline.
Part II
Part II of the McNamara Papers spans the years 1934-2009, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1968 and 2005. Part II supplements Part I and is organized similarly. The few correspondence files that exist are arranged in the Miscellany series. Compared with Part I, the World Bank series in Part II is limited in scope, but the Speeches and Writings file is greatly expanded. Part II is organized into the following series: World Bank, Organizations, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, Classified, Top Secret, Formerly Restricted Data, Sensitive Compartmented Information, and Oversize.
Although not as extensive as the records in Part I, the World Bank series in Part II contains inclusive sets of memoranda for the record and minutes of President's Council meetings. The material provides a record of bank meetings with a memoranda for the record prepared by the personal assistant to the president or by McNamara himself. The memoranda chronicles the bank's operations and decision-making procedures revealing the internal policy debates that often led to the development of international financial aid programs. The series also contains a set of historical reports that track the evolution of the bank's policy agenda over the decades.
The organizations listed in Part II mirror those in Part I and reflect McNamara's wide range of interests. Papers in Part II of the Organizations series overlap and add continuity to corresponding material in Part I. Organizations with whom McNamara became newly affiliated or whose records have been significantly expanded or supplemented from Part I include the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Corning Inc., Drug Strategies, East African Development Bank, Eminent Persons Group on Curbing Illicit Trafficking in Small Arms and Light Weapons, Henry L. Stimson Center, Honorary Presidential Advisory Council on Investment in Nigeria, Rockefeller Foundation, Trilateral Commission, Urban Institute, World Food Prize Foundation, and World Resources Institute.
Beginning in the late 1980s, McNamara embraced an historical methodology called “critical oral history” that provided a framework within which he could publicly analyze his actions as defense secretary, addressing the questions that had long surrounded his public service. Unlike conventional oral history, critical oral history subjects dialogue and memory to documentary analysis and scholarly review. The Cuban Missile Crisis of October 1962 was the first event McNamara analyzed using this method. In a series of six major conferences from 1987 to 2002, referred to as the Cuban Missile Crisis Project, McNamara and other former Kennedy administration officials, along with their Soviet and Cuban counterparts, including Cuban President Fidel Castro, were questioned about the crisis. Part II of the Subject File contains a full range of documents gathered and produced by the project, spotlighting the dangers and behind-the-scenes negotiations that brought the nations to the brink of nuclear war.
While writing his memoir In Retrospect, McNamara offered a proposal to initiate a joint American-Vietnamese project on the Vietnam War based on the principles of critical oral history and modeled after the Cuban Missile Crisis Project. Principally organized by James G. Blight of Brown University, and sponsored by Brown's Thomas J. Watson, Jr. Institute for International Studies, the project consisted of many preliminary meetings and full conferences from 1995 to 1999 that convened under the general title “Missed Opportunities: Revisiting the Decisions of the Vietnam War.” McNamara's exploratory trip to Hanoi in November 1995 on behalf of the project, his first trip to Vietnam since the 1960s, generated considerable domestic controversy and subsequent criticism. Material in Part II of the Subject File documents all aspects of the project whose data provided the basis for McNamara's book Argument without End.
Many of the same subjects and topics explored in Part I of the Subject File are continued in Part II, including files on arms control and nuclear weapons, commissions, conferences and meetings, geopolitical issues, and onchocerciasis (river blindness). Upon his departure from the Defense Department, McNamara was presented with a multivolume bound compilation of his background briefings and public statements. These volumes along with several files of declassified memoranda, position papers, and reports and other related material provide further insights to McNamara's years as defense secretary.
In 1995, McNamara, in collaboration with Brian VanDeMark, published In Retrospect. Described in the preface as “... the book I planned never to publish,” McNamara proceeded to set forth his account and analysis of the Vietnam War with emphasis on the mistakes made and lessons learned from America's involvement in the conflict. The Speeches and Writings series contains extensive research files, drafts, editing and production material, public response and reaction, interview transcripts, promotion and publicity material, and related items concerning the writing and publication of McNamara's long-awaited memoir.
Planned as a sequel to his Vietnam memoir and originally drafted as “In Retrospect II,” McNamara published Argument without End in 1999. Based on conversations between Americans and Vietnamese who were active participants during the war, the book, cowritten with James G. Blight and Robert K. Brigham, was the product of the Vietnam War Project described above. Proposals and outlines for the book are contained in the Speeches and Writings series, in addition to correspondence, editing, publicity and publication material, and drafts from various stages of the book's progress. These files, along with those for the Vietnam War Project, provide an extensive record of the project and the book that grew from it.
In Wilson's Ghost, James G. Blight and McNamara collaborated again to publish an analysis of American foreign policy in the post-Cold War world. The Speeches and Writings series documents the research and publication of McNamara's last major book, including correspondence exchanged with Blight, drafts, and editing and publicity material.
Other subjects and topics featured in Speeches and Writings include the documentary film The Fog of War; Deborah Shapley's biography, Promise and Power; and continuing files from Part I concerning interviews, printed and typescript copies of public statements, and radio and television appearances. The Fog of War, winner of the Academy Award for documentary feature in 2003, was produced and directed by Errol Morris and consists of interviews with McNamara and archival footage. The film considers McNamara's personal and public life and examines the eleven lessons of war posited in his memoir In Retrospect. Speeches and Writings contains reaction to and commentary on the film as well as correspondence, interview transcripts, and research material from the film's production. Files on Promise and Power, include transcripts from a set of interviews conducted by Shapley with McNamara in preparation for the book that complement related files in Part I.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, notes, cards, and letters exchanged between correspondents other than McNamara, as well as enclosures containing speeches, printed matter, reports, typescripts, transcripts, and other miscellaneous attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, cables, interviews, reports and studies, policy and research papers, notes and notebooks, drafts and typescripts, agenda and records of meetings, financial and legal records, statements, speeches and writings, press releases, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the operations and policies of the World Bank.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports and studies, policy and research papers, organizational records, notes, drafts and typescripts, agenda and records of meetings, transcripts, project proposals, briefing books, financial records, statements, speeches and writings, working papers, itineraries, press releases, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous material concerning McNamara's service as a member on the boards and advisory councils of various private corporations and nongovernmental institutions.
Correspondence, memoranda, conferences and meetings, policy and research papers, reports and studies, drafts and typescripts, background material, briefing books, notes, transcripts, statements and testimony, speeches and writings, financial and legal records, press releases, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, drafts and typescripts, notes, background and research material, transcripts, proofs, publication and production material, copyright releases and permissions, blurbs and endorsements, royalty statements, printed matter, and miscellaneous material concerning McNamara's articles, books, commentary, editorials, interviews, radio and television appearances, and speeches as well as speeches and writings by others.
Correspondence, family papers, appointment books, awards, financial and legal papers, press clippings and releases, real estate records, notes, reports, land plans and surveys, recreational and travel records, printed mater, and other items, including condolence letters and memorial tributes on the occasion of the death of McNamara's wife, Margaret.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, policy papers, reports, and related items.
Real estate land surveys and lot plans.
Correspondence, memoranda, cables, minutes of meetings, reports and studies, policy and research papers, notes, working papers, financial records, statements, press releases, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the operations and policies of the World Bank.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports and studies, policy and research papers, organizational records, notes, drafts and typescripts, agenda and records of meetings, transcripts, project proposals, briefing books, financial records, statements, speeches and writings, working papers, itineraries, press releases, printed matter, and miscellaneous material concerning McNamara's service on the boards and advisory councils of various private corporations and nongovernmental institutions.
Correspondence, memoranda, conferences and meetings, position papers, background briefings, reports and studies, drafts and typescripts, background material, briefing books, secretary of defense's daily calenders, notes, transcripts, statements and testimony, interviews, speeches and writings, press releases, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, drafts and typescripts, notes, background and research material, transcripts, agreements and contracts, proposals and outlines, proofs, biographical material, publication and production material, copyright releases and permissions, blurbs and endorsements, reviews, royalty statements, printed matter, and miscellaneous material concerning McNamara's articles, books, commentary, editorials, interviews, radio and television appearances, and speeches as well as speeches and writings by others.
Correspondence, appointment books, financial and legal papers, photographs, greeting cards, press clippings, real estate records, notes, reports, land plans and surveys, social clubs and engagements, recreational and travel records, printed matter, and other items, including condolence letters and memorial tributes on the death of McNamara's wife, Margaret.
Correspondence, memoranda, telegrams, background and research material, position papers, notes, reports and studies, and related items.
Correspondence, background and research material, and related items.
Review.
Report.
Genealogical blueprints of the Strange family of Virginia.
The papers of Victor Selden Clark (1868-1946) span the years 1827-1944. The papers are organized into the following series: Personal File, Family Papers, Special Files, Research and Writings File, and Oversize.
The Personal File, Special Files, and Research and Writings File series relate to Clark's career as an economist and author. The Special Files are largely comprised of records kept by Clark during his trusteeship of the Institute of Current World Affairs, and include such correspondents as Thomas L. Blakemore, Jr., Hallie Flanagan, John N. Hazard, Walter S. Rogers, and Phillips Talbot. Other papers reflect his membership on the Board of Research Associates in American Economic History of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, his work as an arbitrator on railroad cases for the United States Bureau of Mediation, and his service on the Insular Board of Education in Puerto Rico shortly after the territory was acquired by the United States in 1898.
The Family Papers contain farm diaries, business and land records, account books, daybooks, and financial records and legal papers relating to the firm of Green and Davis, Levi Davis, LeRoy Davis, and the Davis and Clark families especially in the Genesse Valley of New York. The Davis records were probably inherited by Clark through his mother Helen, who was a Davis before marriage.
Correspondence, notebooks, account books, travel documents, legal papers, photographs, certificates and diplomas, memorabilia, newspaper clippings, and miscellaneous papers.
Correspondence, business and land records, financial records and legal papers, miscellaneous papers, and bound volumes of account books, farm diaries, and other records.
Reports, administrative records, correspondence, case files, financial records, orders and regulations, and miscellaneous documents.
Articles, essays, reports, student papers, short stories, book reviews, speeches, poems, travelogues, research notes, and printed matter.
Diploma, resolution, and farm diaries.
The collection of Floridiana of Jeannette Thurber Connor (1872-1927) spans the years 1570-1927. The collection is in English, Spanish, and French and is organized into the following series: Correspondence, Writings, Speeches, Transcripts, and Oversize.
The Connor collection contains correspondence, research material, reports, writings, speeches, notes, photographs, printed matter, and transcripts and photocopies of documents in repositories relating to the early history of Florida and represents a selective assemblage of material concerning Spanish Florida gathered by Connor on subjects of interest to her. The Correspondence series primarily concerns Connor's research and transcription efforts at the Archivo General de Indias, Seville, Spain, while Writings contains her research notes, drafts, and source material for miscellaneous writings and research projects, including files relating to Jean Ribaut, author of Connor's commemorative edition of The Whole and True Discouerye of Terra Florida. The Speeches series consists of a report addressed to the annual meeting of the Florida State Historical Society by Connor and a brief talk given by her to a history class at John B. Stetson University, De Land, Fla. The Transcripts series contains the transcript and photocopied reproductions of primary documents collected by Connor for her research at the Archivo General de Indias, Seville, Spain, as well as other repositories.
Correspondence and miscellaneous material primarily relating to the Archivo General de Indias, Seville, Spain
Drafts, research material, photocopies, photographs, reports, notes, printed matter, proofs, and miscellaneous items relating to Connor's articles, books, and other writings concerning her research into Florida's early history.
Typescripts of two addresses by Connor.
Transcript and photocopied reproductions of original documents collected by Connor for her research at the Archivo General de Indias, Seville, Spain, as well as other repositories.
Maps, surveys, illustrations, and narratives.
The papers of Rebekah Crawford (1845-1934) and Linda Clarke-Smith span the years 1715-1929, with the bulk of the material dating from 1890 to 1929. The papers are organized into the following series: Scrapbooks, Family Papers, and Miscellany. Although the majority of the papers belonged to Rebekah Crawford, she asked that the collection be referred to as the "Rebekah Crawford and Linda Clarke-Smith Collection" to honor the relief work of Linda Clarke-Smith, her niece.
The Scrapbooks document Crawford's relief work during and after World War I in Italy and France with the Duryea Relief Agency and the American Red Cross. The series also includes collected material concerning Edgar Allan Poe, Emma Trapper, Mary Alethea and the Spanish-American War.
The Family Papers contain correspondence, genealogical material, Crawford family documents, ancestral tablets, printed articles, an essay on Crawford genealogy, scrapbooks, indentures of transfers of land, account and ledger books of Richard Crawford, wills, drafts of wills, unidentifiable financial records, and miscellaneous pieces of old documents.and writings.
The Miscellany series includes photographs, postcards, and printed matter.
Scrapbooks including correspondence, photographs, financial records, postcards, printed material, and memorabilia.
Correspondence, writings, genealogical material, indentures of transfers of land, account and ledger books of Richard Crawford, and miscellaneous documents including wills, financial records, and other family documents.
Magazine clippings, notes, photographs, postcards, and printed material.
Scrapbooks and awards.
The papers of William Augustus Croffut (1835-1915) contain correspondence, journals, scrapbooks, autographs, reference material, printed matter, and drafts of articles, books, and poems, including a significant portion relating to Ethan Allan Hitchcock. The collection spans the period 1774-1933, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1880 and 1915. The papers are organized into five series: General Correspondence, Business Papers, Ethan Allen Hitchcock File, Anti-Imperialist League, and Miscellany.
The General Correspondence ranges from 1862 to 1933, with the largest part from the period 1880-1915. Correspondence after 1915 is largely that of Croffut's second wife, Bessie B. Croffut. Topics include Croffut's various publications, his activities with the Anti-Imperialist League, and the presidential campaign of 1900. Correspondents include George S. Boutwell, Elwood S. Corser, John William Hayes, John B. Henderson, Patrick O'Farrell, Bertrand Shadwell, Charles A. Towne, George W. Van Siclen, and Erving Winslow, as well prominent figures such as William Jennings Bryan, Samuel Gompers, and Carl Schurz.
The Ethan Allen Hitchcock File contains drafts and copies of Croffut's writings as well as a copy of Hitchcock's memoir that Croffut used for Fifty Years in Field and Camp. This memoir, based on diaries, is not in the Ethan Allen Hitchcock collection in the Manuscript Division. Bessie B. Croffutt, niece of Hitchcock, also made copies of other Hitchcock materials, including correspondence with Sophie Peabody (Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne). Also in the collection are an undated letter of John Quincy Adams, a note of Jefferson Davis, numerous autographs, including of James Monroe, copies of George Washington material, and items relating to Joseph Smith Fowler.
Included in the Anti-Imperialist League file are minutes and records of the Washington, D.C., branch, along with other branch and league literature, additional printed matter, and drafts of articles advocating the cause of the Philippines and of the Boers in South Africa. The Miscellany series includes journals of Henry Alfred Robbins containing accounts of his travels in Europe that describe practices on the Continent during the 1870s. Scrapbooks contain newspaper columns and an account of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago.
Letters sent and received, including correspondence of Croffut's second wife, Bessie B. Croffut.
Bills and receipts.
Mainly copies of Hitchcock's memoir and related notes and correspondence relating to its publication by Croffut. Also other writings by Croffut and Croffut family members, including drafts, galleys, printed articles and verse, and books of poetry by Croffut.
Official minutes and other records of the league's Washington, D.C., branch, drafts of articles on the Philippines and imperialism, and printed matter relating to the league and to imperialism, South Africa, and the Boers.
Autographs and copies of letters of historical figures, address books, notebooks, journals of Henry Alfred Robbins, scrapbooks, maps, bibliographic data, printed matter, and miscellaneous items.
The papers of Amos Pinchot (1873-1944) span the years 1856-1945, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1909 to 1942. The collection chiefly reflects Pinchot's career as a lawyer and reformer and consists of six series: Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, Printed Matter, and Oversize.
Topics of importance in the papers include civil liberties, labor problems, the Sherman Antitrust Act, opposition to militarism and war, the League of Nations, the Progressive Party, oil scandals, government ownership of railroads, the National Industrial Recovery Act and New Deal legislation, reorganization of the Supreme Court, cooperative housing, America First Committee, and presidential campaigns from 1916 to 1940. Prominent correspondents include William Edgar Borah, Louise Bryant, James Rudolph Garfield, Harold L. Ickes, William Kent, John Adams Kingsbury, Fiorello H. La Guardia, John L. Lewis, Gifford Pinchot, Ezra Pound, John Reed (1887-1920), Franklin D. Roosevelt, Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919), and Henry L. Stimson.
Letters sent and received by Amos Pinchot and Pinchot family members.
Letters sent and received.
Memoranda, notes, reports, printed matter, and other material.
Drafts and printed versions of articles, addresses, speeches, and other writings, and related letters, notes and notebooks.
Newspaper clippings, articles, and other printed material. Organized in four sets.
A broadside and scrapbooks of newspaper clippings.
The radio scripts of Paul Rhymer (1905-1964) span the years 1934-1944 and consist of playscripts of Vic and Sade submitted to the Library of Congress for copyright deposit during that period. The Vic and Sade radio series, sponsored by Proctor and Gamble, aired as a daytime comedy on the National Broadcasting Company from November 1934 to December 1945 and won many awards, including for best written program on the radio in 1936.
The papers of the P. Phillips family span the period 1832 1914. The papers include the writings of Eugenia Levy Phillips and her parents, Jacob Clavius Levy and Fanny Yates Levy, but the bulk of the material relates to the law practice of her husband, P. Phillips (1807-1884), and his son, W. Hallett Phillips, prominent lawyers before the United States Supreme Court. Material concerning their practice is found primarily in the letterbooks, in the dockets, and in the legal record books. The collection is organized in eight series: Journal; General Correspondence, Letterbooks; Subject File; Autobiography, Speeches, and Writings; Legal File; Financial Papers; and Miscellany.
Although Eugenia Levy Phillips was an ardent Southerner, as shown in her journal written during her internment, P. Phillips apparently played an inactive role in the Civil War. There is a gap in the otherwise inclusive series of letterbooks for the period 1862 to 1867, but the period is scanned in his autobiography. Both P. Phillips and his son were champions of the disadvantaged. The elder Phillips was interested in California and the United States and Mexican Claims Commission, Key West and the slave trade, judicial reform, and in securing the repeal of the Missouri Compromise with the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act.
There is little biographical material on W. Hallett Phillips, but something of his character can be gleaned from his notebooks, translations and miscellaneous writings. His idealism is shown in material on the preservation of Yellowstone National Park, support of the Cuban revolution, investigation of a lynching at Hahnville, Louisiana, and the defense of the rights of the Moki (Hopi) Indians of Arizona.
Correspondence is generally on legal matters and includes James B. Campbell, Edmund Strother Dargan, John Forsyth, George Wilkins Guthrie, John Marshall Harlan, William R. King, William A. Maury, Medill McCormick, Moses Cohen Mordecai, Richard Olney, Hoke Smith, Edwin McMasters Stanton, A. B. Stickney, and William Yerger.
Holograph transcript and typed transcript of the journal of Eugenia Levy Phillips.
Letters sent and received.
Washington, D. C. law office letterbooks of Philip Phillips; Phillips, Maury, & Phillips; W. Hallett Phillips; and Phillips & Phillips. There is some overlapping between volumes and a gap in the records of Philip Phillips for the period 1862-1867.
Correspondence, reports, and printed matter.
Autobiography, printed speeches and statements, and "In Memoriam," of P. Phillips, and miscellaneous writings and translations of W. Hallett Phillips.
Deeds, will, Supreme Court brief, dockets, legal notebooks, and record books of Philip Phillips; Phillips, Maury, & Phillips; and W. Hallett Phillips.
Ledger, account books, receipt books, cancelled checks, and fee memorandum.
Commonplace books, receipt books, scrapbooks and notebooks, a copy of "Vindiciae Judaeorum," a book of quotations, notes and invitations, memorabilia, photographs, and printed matter.
The Puerto Rican Collection spans the years 1591-1900, with the bulk of the material dating from 1750 to 1898. The papers are in Spanish with some English. The papers contain documents from the Spanish colonial government of Puerto Rico including financial material reflecting budgets, data on imports and exports, and taxation, military papers from the War Ministry, and orders and decrees from the Spanish government. A wide variety of other papers document other aspects of Spanish colonial Puerto Rico including items concerning slavery, political prisoners, registration of foreigners, the fortifications of “El Morro” in San Juan, baptismal records, and politics. Many of these items had belonged to the Puerto Rican writer, historian, and government official Cayetano Coll y Toste and relate to his research interests. A very few items, mostly concerning education, date from after the Spanish-American War and the subsequent American occupation of Puerto Rico.
The papers of Marcia Davenport (1903-1996) span the years 1929-1970, with the bulk of the material dating from 1932 to 1960. The papers are mostly in English with a typescript in Czech and are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Literary Manuscripts, and Addition.
The Correspondence largely relates to the preparation and publication of her books and novels and there are numerous drafts and copies of Davenport's outgoing letters. A significant group of correspondence consists of letters from Maxwell E. Perkins, editor-in-chief at Charles Scribner's Sons, from 1931 until his death in 1947. Included among the more than thirty letters from Perkins is a ten-page letter, dated April 28, 1947, concerning revisions of Davenport's novel East Side, West Side. Other correspondents include Carol Brandt, Davenport's literary agent, Charles Scribner, Jr., and Wallace Meyer who succeeded Perkins as Davenport's editor at the Scribner publishing house. There are also individual letters from Willa Cather, Irving Kolodin, and Montrose Jonas Moses. Further correspondence is in the Addition.
The Literary Manuscripts relate to her works published from 1929 to 1960 including Mozart, Of Lena Geyer, Valley of Decision, East Side, West Side, My Brother's Keeper, Garibaldi: Father of Modern Italy, and The Constant Image. Notes and early material relating to her 1967 autobiography Too Strong for Fantasy and the original typescript for My Brother's Keeper are in the Addition. Included with the manuscripts are notes, typescripts, press clippings, typescripts, galley proofs, page proofs, drafts, and fragments.
Incoming and outgoing letters relating to Davenport's publications.
Drafts, notes, typescripts, galley proofs, page proofs, and press clippings.
Correspondence, literary manuscripts, clippings, notes, typescripts, and fragments.
The papers of Herbert Bain Knowles (1894-1976) cover the years 1941-1945 and describe Knowles’s service in the United States Navy’s amphibious forces in the Pacific during World War II. The collection traces the American advance across the Pacific Ocean to Japan via the Solomon Islands, Attu, Kiska, Tarawa, Kawajalein, Saipan, Guam, Leyte, Lingayen, and Nagasaki, Japan, during 1942-1945.
Included are mimeographs and carbon copies of after action reports of Knowles and others, conference notes, service communications, operation plans and orders for assault landings and training exercises, marine division field reports, Knowles’s unpublished “History of U.S.S. Heywood,” and his war diaries or monthly logs of Transport Division 18 and Transport Squadron 12. Also included are photographs of the Leyte beachhead and a military intelligence bulletin. Personal materials consist of a few items of correspondence, health reports, orders, response to orders, vouchers, and similar documents depicting Knowles’s naval life while not in combat or engaged in ship and troop deployment.
Knowles was a pioneer and innovator in the art of assault troop landings. His ideas and innovations, as found in his operational plans and orders and in his after action reports, were to become widely adopted for amphibious landings by United States forces.
The papers of Montgomery Sicard (1836-1900) span the years 1800-1948, with the bulk of the material falling in the years 1870 to 1898. The collection consists of official and general correspondence, a subject file, and miscellaneous items.
Sicard’s achievements in the field of ordnance are documented with his diagrams and memoranda for breech-loading howitzers and his plans for steel armor plate for ships. In his plans for steel plates are holograph and typescript notes, memoranda, letters, blueprints, and a corrected galley for Specifications for Armor for the United States Navy.
The official correspondence includes a few letters, but the majority of items are orders to duty. Correspondents include William E. Chandler, William Mayhew Folger, William H. Hunt, Charles O’Neil, and David D. Porter. The general correspondence consists largely of letters exchanged between Sicard and his wife, Elizabeth Floyd Sicard, and between the Sicards and their children, William F. Sicard, Montgomery Sicard, Jr., and Eleanor L. Sicard. Other correspondents are Ward Hunt, Jr., Kossuth Niles, and Asa Walker.
Sicard’s financial affairs are documented with letters of advice on investments; papers of profits, management of property, and purchase of household goods, and tax receipts. There are letters from his brothers, Stephen Sicard and George J. Sicard, and his brother-in-law, William Floyd.
Of interest in the miscellany are trade papers of Sicard’s father, Stephen Sicard, and papers on the management of the Floyds’ property in New York.
The papers of Robert W. Shufeldt (1822-1895) span the years 1836-1910, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1860-1880. Shufeldt’s forty-five year naval career was interrupted by a nine-year period in the merchant marine service and in surveying for a proposed isthmian canal route. The correspondence for his broken-service years, however, includes many papers of interest on naval affairs.
The Shufeldt collection consists primarily of correspondence, letterbooks, and subject files, supplemented by diaries, notebooks, journals, logbooks, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and a small file of material concerning explorations in Africa by Shufeldt’s youngest son, Mason. The topics of interest are the nineteenth-century navy, its growth and development; Civil War naval and diplomatic activities; foreign relations in the 1870s and 1880s, especially with Africa and Asia; and the Tehuantepec, Mexico, surveying expeditions. The collection is organized into nine series: Diaries, Notebooks, Logbooks, and Journals; Letterbooks, Letterpress Books, and Letter Index Books; Official Correspondence; General Correspondence; Subject File; Newspaper Clippings; Printed Matter; Miscellany; and Mason A. Shufeldt File.
Shufeldt resigned his commission in the navy in 1854 and entered the merchant marine to command the Quaker City. Later, he became interested in the construction of a canal across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Mexico and in 1860 led an expedition through that region. In 1861, Shufeldt was appointed consul general to serve in Cuba. Correspondents for the years 1839-1861 include A. D. Bach, George Bancroft, Charles Stuart Boggs, Benjamin F. Butler, John Adolphus Dahlgren, Samuel Ffrancis Du Pont, David Glasgow Farragut, John Pendleton Kennedy, James Murray Mason, Matthew Calbraith Perry, David D. Porter, and Gideon Welles.
Shufeldt returned to active duty in the navy in 1863 with the rank of commander. During the Civil War, her served both ashore and afloat. After the Civil War, Shufeldt served at sea in the Far East and in 1868 he returned to the United States and was assigned ordnance duty ashore in New York.
In 1870, Shufeldt was promoted to the rank of captain and was assigned special duty in command of a survey expedition to Tehuantepec, Mexico. After the exploration, Shufeldt recommended that this territory be considered as a likely site for a transisthmus canal.
In 1878, Shufeldt was given command of the Ticonderoga that was to sail on a round-the-world cruise. The documentation for the cruise fills about one-third of the containers in this collection. After returning to the United States in 1881, he was reassigned to Peking, China, as the naval attaché.
Shufeldt was appointed president of the Naval Advisory Board, for which he served two years before retiring in 1884. It was during this last tour of duty that he helped formulate the plans for a new navy incorporating the technological advance from sail to steam propulsion and from wood to iron and steel hulls.
Diaries, notebooks, log abstracts, logbooks, navigational data, journals, and other writings.
Copies of correspondence and reports sent by Shufeldt as commander of various ships.
Letters received and a few drafts of letters sent.
Letters received and a few drafts of letters sent, mostly of a personal and family nature, but some material relating to Shufeldt’s activities in Cuba, Mexico, and elsewhere.
Correspondence, reports, memoranda, manuscripts, maps, printed matter, newspaper clippings, drafts of writings, bills and receipts, and miscellaneous items pertaining to Cuba, the Tehuantepec Survey Expedition, and the Ticonderoga world cruise.
Clippings chiefly concerned with naval incidents.
Aticles, pamphlets, speeches, general orders, and other writings.
An account book, calling cards and invitations, notes and fragments, inventories, quartermaster reports, ship descriptions, officer register, ship specifications and blueprints, admiralty board arguments, bills, receipts, inventories, copies of treaties, certificates and awards, poetry, songs, and essays.
Correspondence, reports, writings, and miscellaneous material. This file is mostly concerned with Mason A. Shufeldt’s explorations of Africa.
The papers of Jean Joseph Maurice Dartigue (1903-1983) span the years 1941-1945 and consist of records relating to the Société haitiano-américaine de développement agricole. Together with President Elie Lescot and Minister of Finance M. Abel Lacroix of Haiti, Dartigue established the Haitian corporation in 1941 and became its vice president. Included in the collection are correspondence, minutes, agreements, financial reports, and studies concerning the organization’s founding and mission as an effort during World War II in cooperation with the United States to produce cryptostegia, a fast growing rubber plant. Lands were cleared and several hundred peasant families were displaced in implementing a contract with the Rubber Reserve Company, a subsidiary of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
The records, in French and English, were the personal papers of Dartigue and are organized by type of material.
The papers of Elmer Holmes Davis (1890-1958) span the years 1865-1957, with the bulk of the material dating from 1946 to 1955. The papers are organized into the following series: General Correspondence, Personal and Literary File, Subject File, Radio Scripts, and Addition.
The General Correspondence contains mostly letters relating to Davis's career. He kept little of his personal incoming and outgoing letters. Davis did, however, retain some early correspondence written by his parents, his wife, and a few others. Notable are the 1917 letters from Carolyn A. Wilson who reported from France during World War I for the Chicago Tribune and corresponded with Davis about what she observed. Later correspondence reflects Davis's involvement in the political and literary fields. Correspondents include Bernard Augustine De Voto, Edward R. Murrow, Harold Wallace Ross, James Thurber, Harry S. Truman, Hendrik Willem van Loon, Sumner Welles, and William Allen White.
The Personal and Literary File contains biographical material, lectures and speeches, photographs, and printed copies of many of Davis's articles and early pieces of fiction as well as the typescript of But We Were Born Free. Of interest are photographs taken during a visit to Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in 1944, and currency produced by the First National Bank of Aurora, Indiana, in 1865, where Davis's father worked.
The Subject File, devoted mainly to world events, contains correspondence, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, government publications, notes, and press releases issued by news bureaus and government agencies. Of interest are the files on the Office of War Information that include a report to the president for the years 1942-1945 and items relating to Davis's service as director including his file card from the Nazi Propaganda Ministry, memoranda of conversations with government officials, and correspondence and clippings relating to the dispute between the Office of War Information and its overseas branch. Further correspondence relating to the Office of War Information is in the General Correspondence.
Radio Scripts contains Davis's original scripts of broadcasts for the Columbia Broadcasting System and the American Broadcasting Company. For 1946, there is also a set of approved scripts. The Addition is comprised of a radio script dated 16 February 1942.
Letters sent and received.
Biographical and family material, clippings, speeches and lectures, memorabilia, photographs, articles, typescript of his book But We Were Born Free, booklets, a novel, and short stories.
Correspondence, clippings, congressional reports, notes, press releases, printed matter, research papers, and other material.
Original radio scripts.
Radio script.
The papers of James J. Davis (1873-1947) span the years 1895-1946, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1931-1946. The collection consists of thirteen series: Diaries, Loyal Order of Moose Correspondence, Patronage Correspondence, Political Correspondence, Family Correspondence, Special File, Financial File, Book File, Speeches and Articles, Scrapbooks and Personal Miscellany, Printed Matter, Photographs and Cartoons, and Oversize.
The Diaries include desk diaries and a register of constituents. The three correspondence series and Special File relate to political matters, constituent services, job seekers, and to his activities as a founder, organizer, and director general of the Loyal Order of Moose. Correspondents include Rhys J. Davies, Homer L. Ferguson, Herbert Hoover, and Andrew W. Mellon.
The Special File includes files on Davis's senatorial campaign in 1931; the United States Congress Senate Select Committee on Senatorial Campaign Expenditures investigation, headed by Gerald P. Nye, of his campaign expenses; and a legal case where he was the defendant, United States v. Davis, the Loyal Order of Moose lottery trial. The Speeches and Articles includes Davis's writings and speeches about labor relations, unemployment, social security, various political campaigns, and a draft of his unpublished book, "The History of Strikes."
Scheduling desk diaries and a constituents register.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence sent and received while Davis was senator from Pennsylvania with persons seeking employment in government and private industry.
Letters sent and received relating to politics and political campaigns.
Letters between Davis and his son, James J. Davis, Jr.
Legal papers, voting records, clippings, and correspondence.
Personal and professional financial records.
Draft of Davis's unpublished book, "History of Strikes," with related correspondence.
Speeches and articles in typscript, printed, or draft format.
Scrapbooks, a copy of Davis's death certificate, certificates of appreciation, a gavel, and miscellaneous material.
Clippings, pamphlets, and magazines.
Photographs and political cartoons, 1895-1946
Scrapbooks, photographs, and cartoons.
The papers of Henry White Edgerton (1888-1970) range from 1910 to 1970, with the bulk of the material dating from 1929 to 1966. The papers document primarily Edgerton's activities as a law professor at Cornell University, 1929-1937, and as a judge for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, 1937-1970. The collection is organized into a subject file and an addition.
Pertaining chiefly to Edgerton's career as a law professor and his writings, the subject file includes correspondence, drafts of articles, letters to the editor, notes, pamphlets, reports, newspaper clippings, and printed matter. Topics featured are civil liberties, criminology, law school curriculum, and the roles of the three branches of government. Edgerton's ideas on curriculum and criminology are revealed in correspondence with deans and professors at law schools on matters relating to his activities in the Association of American Law Schools. Among the correspondents are Herschel Whitfield Arant, Rufus C. Harris, Justin Miller, Roscoe Pound, J. J. Robinson, and John Barker Waite. Also included is correspondence with Felix Frankfurter and others relating to an article by Edgerton's about the incidence of judicial supremacy over Congress, although these files do not contain any drafts or working papers.
The only correspondence covering an appreciable span of years, 1930-1969, is with Archibald Graustein, an attorney with the Boston law firm of Ropes, Gray, Boyden & Perkins and president of the International Paper Company. The letters, chiefly from Graustein, touch on the opinions of Edgerton in various court cases, personal, family, and business matters, and occasionally on contemporary affairs. Included are references to Edgerton's activities while on the bench of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
Other correspondence documents Edgerton's affiliations with civil liberties organizations and his interest in several trials in which they were involved. There are also several manuscripts written while he was a special attorney in the Department of Justice relating to the National Recovery Administration, and a few items pertaining to three letters to editors by Edgerton. There is no documentation of Edgerton's activities as a private attorney and little information on his classroom lectures.
The addition to the collection, 1944-1967, consists primarily of case files documenting Edgerton's tenure as a judge for the Court of Appeals. The case files include memoranda, opinions, orders, and judgments.
The Charles Ewing Family Papers span the years 1769-1951, with the bulk of the material dating from 1850 to 1890. Before arriving at the Library of Congress, the papers had been arranged into a series of notebooks labeled with the name of the person to whom they pertained. The notebooks are organized into into the following series: Thomas Ewing (1789-1871) Papers, Charles Ewing (1835-1883) Papers, Genealogical File, Virginia Larwill Miller Ewing Papers, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Thomas Ewing (1789-1871) Papers largely consist of records from the Washington, D.C., law office he operated with Orville Hickman Browning and later joined by his son Thomas Ewing (1829-1886). Included are legal cases involving courts martial and land claims. A group of correspondence relates to legal cases handled by Browning. The chronological file of Thomas Ewing (1829-1886) consists of documents relating to business and land transactions largely in Leavenworth, Kansas, by Thomas and his brother Hugh, legal cases involving pardons and amnesty after the Civil War, claims against the military and for restoration of property, land claims, and a set of notes written circa 1865 concerning Ewing's representation of Samuel Arnold, a coconspirator in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. The scrapbooks, containing memorabilia, articles and clippings, land plats, commissions, and legal and personal correspondence relating to Thomas Ewing (1789-1871), were compiled by a family member.
The Charles Ewing (1835-1883) Papers consist of a diary, military records, correspondence, scrapbooks, and records relating to the law offices of Ewing & Hunter in St. Louis, Missouri, and Ewing & Jackson in Washington, D.C. The papers relate to the Civil War and its aftermath, especially the military circle formed by brothers Charles, Thomas, and Hugh Ewing, and their brothers-in-law, William T. Sherman and Clement F. Steele. The diary covers Ewing's service in the United States Army during the Civil War and his law career after the war. During the Civil War, Ewing served under Sherman, and was part of the Atlanta Campaign that included the "March to the Sea." The correspondence is mostly with family including Hampton B. Denman, Hugh Ewing, Philemon Ewing, Thomas Ewing (1829-1886), Ellen Ewing Sherman, William T. Sherman, Clement F. Steele, Maria Theresa Ewing Steele, and nieces and nephews. Other correspondents include Luke Clarke, Charles S. Lusk, Reade M. Washington, and Lewis Wolfley. Clarke and Wolfley had served with Ewing during the Civil War while Lusk served as Ewing's clerk at the Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions and later became its commissioner. The records of Ewing & Hunter consist of a letterpress book and letters received. The records of Ewing & Jackson include cases involving courts martial and other military claims, land grant claims, Office of Indian Affairs claims, Mexican claims, cotton claims after the Civil War, patents, and legal matters relating to various companies. The scrapbooks, relating to Ewing, his father, and William T. Sherman, seem to have been compiled by a family member.
The Virginia Larwill Miller Ewing Papers are comprised of correspondence and scrapbooks. The correspondence is largely with members of her family, chiefly her children, and recounts family life, social events, family genealogy, and church activities. Correspondents include Virginia Miller Ewing Anderson, Kathleen Ewing Daly, Charles Ewing (1872-1954), James Gillespie Blaine Ewing, John Krepps Miller Ewing, and Maria Ewing. The scrapbooks were compiled by a family member.
The Miscellany contains a genealogical notebook on the Gillespie family similar in content to those found in the Genealogical File on the Stibbs, Larwill, and Miller families. Included also is a photograph album of Civil War army officers.
Scrapbooks, records of his Washington, D.C., law office, a chronological file related to Thomas Ewing (1829-1896), and other related material.
Diary, memorabilia, military records, correspondence, records relating to his St. Louis, Mo., and Washington, D.C., law offices, and scrapbooks.
Notebooks of collected genealogical information including biographical notes, correspondence, charts, photographs, photostatic copies, and original documents regarding the ancestors of Virginia Larwill Miller Ewing.
Correspondence with family, chiefly her children, and scrapbooks.
Genealogical notebook and photograph album of Civil War army officers.
Scrapbook containing originals and copies of military commissions, correspondence, diplomas, and other documents.
The papers of Oliver Freud (1891-1969) and Henny Fuchs Freud (1892-1971) span the years 1821-1993, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1907-1968. Included are correspondence, subject files, writings, photographs, and related material. Early nineteenth-century material consisting of legal items and other documents pertains to the Boas (Boaz) family, ancestors of Henny Fuchs Freud. A small addition contains an account of the life of the Freud’s daughter, Eva Mathilde Freud, and a letter by Oliver Freud to Marianne Kris. The collection includes documents in German, French, and English.
Freud family material concerns Sigmund Freud and the dispersion and flight of various family members from Austria and then Europe during World War II. Correspondents include Anna Freud Bernays, Princess Marie Bonaparte, Anna Freud, Ernst L. Freud, Martha Bernays Freud, Sigmund Freud (photocopies only), and Mathilde Freud Hollitscher. The Eva Mathilde Freud series includes her correspondence and personal files before and after her parents' immigration to the United States. A transcript of an interview of Oliver Freud conducted in 1953 by K. R. Eissler includes Freud's recollection of his father.
Letters sent and received by Oliver Freud and Henny Fuchs Freud, with attachments and related matter.
Correspondence, reports, family memorabilia, financial matter, legal data, lists, recollections, journals, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, subject files, and writings pertaining to Eva Mathilde Freud, daughter of Oliver and Henny Fuchs Freud.
Typed and handwritten manuscripts of articles, speeches, and other presentations by Oliver Freud and Henny Fuchs Freud.
Family and other photographs.
An account of the life and death of Eva Mathilde Freud by Pierre Segond, typewritten transcripts of two letters by her, and a letter by Oliver Freud to Marianne Kris.
The papers of John Charles Frémont (1813-1890) and Jessie Benton Frémont (1824-1902) span the years 1828-1980 with the bulk of the material dating from 1835 to 1890. The collection includes correspondence, presidential campaign material from 1856, Civil War items, writings, prints, photographs, printed matter, and books. Throughout the collection are typed transcripts of letters, lists of items, and occasional typed descriptions of items. These were not created by the Library of Congress but came with the collection and have been retained as supplemental information.
The Civil War file contains no items written by John Charles Frémont. Some letters are addressed to Frémont as commander in charge of the Western Department and the Mountain Department. Other items are related to his command during the war or are addressed to Major George E. Waring who took over his command in Missouri. Before and after the war, Waring was a prominent sanitary engineer and civic reformer, leading projects such as the engineering of the drainage system for New York's Central Park.
The correspondence consists mainly of letters sent by Jessie Benton Frémont and John Charles Frémont. All but five letters are written by the Frémonts. The Jessie Benton Frémont correspondence includes many letters to Robert Underwood Johnson and Edward William Bok. A lengthy run of letters to T. W. (Trenor William) Park in the John Charles Frémont correspondence primarily concerns the Frémont's California property. Other notable correspondents include Henry Ward Beecher and Joel Roberts Poinsett.
The presidential campaign of 1856 material includes pamphlets supporting and opposing Frémont, songbooks, and graphic material. The printed matter contains both items written by the Frémonts and items written about them. The book collection, part of the printed matter file, includes items authored by the Frémonts. The books remain unorganized in four record center cartons. A list of contents is in each box. Other items in the collection include engravings, prints, photographs, legal papers, printed matter, and a dispatch box.
The papers of Arno Allan Penzias (1933-) span 1931-2006, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1963 to 1998. Penzias enjoyed a thirty-seven year career with Bell Laboratories and its successor Lucent Technologies, serving these organizations as an astrophysicist and eventually as chief scientist and vice president directing the corporate laboratory’s research and product development. Penzias with his colleague Robert Woodrow Wilson discovered a uniform microwave radiation emanating from beyond our galaxy the charting of which documented the Big Bang theory of the origins of the universe. For this achievement Penzias and Wilson shared a Nobel Prize for Physics in 1978.
Most of the collection is in English but includes material in German, Chinese, French, Swedish, Japanese, Spanish, Portugese, Italian, and Russian. The papers are organized into six series: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Oversize, Artifact, and Digital Files.
The General Correspondence contains letters exchanged with colleagues and friends including David Block, Paul A. Fleury, George Gamow, Hiroshi Inose, Roy Radner, and Charles H. Townes.
The Speeches and Writings include files on Penzias’s two books about information technology, Ideas and Information: Managing in a High-Tech World and Harmony: Business, Technology & Life after Paperwork, published in 1989 and 1995 respectively. Correspondence relating to the books is extensive and correspondents include E. A. Ash, Pierre J. Encrenaz, Midhat J. Gazalé, George F. Gilder, Hiroshi Inose, Bela Julesz, Philip Morrison, Dieter Nachtigall, Hans J. Queisser, Masakazu Shoji, Lyman Spitzer, George R. Stibitz, and Michiyuki Uenohara.
Penzias took on his duties directing Bell Laboratories in 1981, the year its parent company, AT & T, was ordered by court order to divest. The Subject File documents Penzias’s leadership during the period when Bell Laboratories became Lucent Technologies. It also sheds light on his earlier research career, such as his discovery of the cosmic background radiation for which he won the Nobel Prize, and his work on another indicator of a Big Bang, the abundance in the universe of deuterium, a stable isotope of hydrogen. A file relating to Penzias’s work on the origin of the elements includes correspondence with Big Bang theorists Ralph Alpher, Robert H. Dicke, Robert Herman (1914), P. J. E. Peebles, and Steven Weinberg (1933). Documentation obtained from Bell Laboratory’s Horn Antenna, with which Penzias and Wilson made their discovery on Crawford Hill in Holmdel, New Jersey, is available in photographs and a rolled, scroll-like “chart record” dating from 1964.
The Digital Files document Penzias's career as a venture capital partner with New Enterprises Associates after his retirement from Lucent Technologies and also include personal correspondence, family photographs and biographical material.
Correspondence with friends and colleagues with attached material.
Drafts of books, articles, and speeches; interviews; poems; correspondence; background information; research files; and promotional and miscellaneous material..
Awards and honors, photographs, scientific papers, including research and articles, and other miscellaneous subject files.
Commemorative T-shirt and posters.
“Chart record,” Horn Antenna, Holmdel, N.J.
The papers of Oscar Solomon Straus (1850-1926) span the years circa 1856-1955, with the bulk of the material dating from 1856 to 1923. The collection chiefly relates to Straus's service as minister and later ambassador to the Ottoman Empire (Turkey), United States secretary of commerce and labor, and member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration, Hague, Netherlands. When appointed by Theodore Roosevelt in 1906 as secretary of commerce and labor, Straus became the first Jew to hold a cabinet post. The papers are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Diaries and Notebooks, Scrapbooks, Miscellany, and Addition. A select index of correspondence from Theodore Roosevelt and his secretaries appears at end of the container list.
The Correspondence includes general correspondence and letterbooks of Straus's outgoing letters. In the early correspondnece are letters between Straus and his older brothers, Nathan and Isidor, with many of Isidor's letters written during Straus's first appointment as minister to the Ottoman Empire (Turkey). Other correspondents from Straus's career include Robert Bacon, John Barrett, Thomas F. Bayard, Nicholas Murray Butler, Andrew Carnegie, Grover Cleveland, Calvin Coolidge, Ralph M. Easley, James Rudolph Garfield, Lloyd Carpenter Griscom, Warren G. Harding, Benjamin Harrison, John Hay, Lee Kohns, Robert Lansing, William Loeb, William McKinley, Adolph S. Ochs, George Foster Peabody, Theodore Roosevelt, Elihu Root, William H. Taft, and Woodrow Wilson.
The Diaries and Notebooks series contains diaries covering Straus's career and miscellaneous notebooks. The diaries begin with Straus's first appointment as minister to the Ottoman Empire (Turkey) from 1887 to 1888, resume with his second appointment to that post from 1898 to 1900, then cover the remainder of his career beginning with his appointment as secretary of labor and commerce in 1906 through his appointment as a member of the President's Second Industrial Conference in 1919 and end in 1923. A discrete set of notes tucked inside the 1887-1888 diary is Straus's memorandum about a trip to Egypt in March-April 1888. Also included in the folder with the diary is a memorandum and letter recounting infringements on religious liberty in the empire probably in violation of the Berlin treaty of 1878. The miscellaneous notebooks include lecture notes and thoughts and quotations kept by Straus and two notebooks in shorthand kept by Straus's personal secretary, Theodore Linus Weed.
The Scrapbooks, though arranged somewhat chronologically, are largely topical. Individual scrapbooks cover Straus's publications The Origin of Republican Form of Government in the United States of America; Roger Williams, the Pioneer of Religious Liberty; and The American Spirit. Other volumes include his involvement with the Ottoman Empire (Turkey); the Permanent Court of Arbitration; the National Civic Federation; his years in the cabinet; Romania and Russia; the death of his father-in-law Louis Lavenburg; World War I; and the death of Straus himself. Selected items have been microfilmed.
Miscellany contains manuscripts of Straus's publications and speeches, commemorative items, photographs, clippings and other printed matter, diplomas, and an autobiography of Isidor Straus published posthumously. Included also are the minutes of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a memorial address in memory of John Hay.
The Addition is comprised of the records of the Oscar S. Straus Memorial Association. Included is correspondence, congressional resolutions, minutes, clippings, blueprints, and mailing lists covering the public subscription campaign and the construction of a memorial to Straus in Washington, D.C., and a lecture series given under the aegis of the association entitled "Commentary on Pan American Problems" and presented by Ricardo J. Alfaro.
Letters sent and received, including photocopies of correspondence from other parts of the collection, along with clippings and other printed matter, drafts of documents, essays, notes, photographs, and speeches.
Handwritten and typed diaries, with correspondence, clippings, photographs, and other material laid or pasted in, and miscellaneous notebooks. Correspondence tipped into the volumes has been photocopied and the photocopies inserted chronologically in the Correspondence series.
Clippings, correspondence, photographs, calling cards, and printed matter. Correspondence tipped into the volumes has been photocopied and the photocopies inserted chronologically in the Correspondence series. Selected items are available on Microfilm shelf no. 8,924.
Speeches and writings, clippings, commemorative items, diplomas, memorials, minutes, photographs, printed matter, an autobiography of Isidor Straus, and other miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, congressional resolutions, minutes, clippings, receipts, blueprints, and mailing lists relating to the Oscar S. Straus Memorial Association.
The records of the Progressive National Committee Supporting Franklin D. Roosevelt for President span the year 1936 and consist of correspondence, office files, press releases, scrapbook of clippings, and other printed material relating to the committee's activities in the 1936 presidential campaign. Prominent individuals represented include Elmer Austin Benson, Mary McLeod Bethune, Maurice P. Davidson, Harold L. Ickes, Judson King, Robert M. LaFollette (1895-1953), Fiorello H. La Guardia, and Frank P. Walsh.
The play scripts of Robert Emmet Sherwood (1896-1955) span the years 1921-1962 and are dated according to the year the typescripts of dramas were submitted for copyright to the Library of Congress Copyright Office. Titles begin with The Dawn Man (1921) and include The Road to Rome (1926), Abe Lincoln in Illinois (1937), Miss Liberty (1949), Small War on Murray Hill (1953), and Champagne and Caviar (1957), an adaption by Eddie Davis and Sam Alper of Sherwood’s English version of Jacques Deval’s Tovaritch.
The papers of Edward Otto Tabor (1885-1948) consist of correspondence, reports, speeches, notes, pamphlets and clippings dealing almost exclusively with activities of Czechoslovak-Americans on behalf of the Republic of Czechoslovakia during 1918-1948. Topics include Czech news, American relief to Czechoslovakia, Thomas Masaryk’s birthday celebrations, Edvard Beneš, and the Masaryk Institute. The correspondence includes letters from Edvard Beneš, Alice Masaryk, Jan Masaryk, and other Czech officials.
The papers of Smith Ely Jelliffe (1866-1945) span the years 1882-1977, with the bulk dating from 1885 to 1944. The papers are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Notes, Genealogical Material, Biographical Material, Scrapbooks, Miscellany, Memorabilia, Addition, and Oversize.
Jelliffe is often credited as one of the founders of American psychosomatic medicine. He was, however, more widely known for his translations of numerous European works in neurology, psychiatry, psychopathology, and psychotherapy, and the serials he owned and edited, Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease, Psychoanalytic Review, and Nervous and Mental Disease Monograph.
The Correspondence series relates primarily to Jelliffe’s career and includes correspondents such as Eugen Bleuler, A. A. Brill, M. Eitingon, Havelock Ellis, Paul Federn, Otto Fenichel, Sándor Ferenczi, Sigmund Freud, G. Stanley Hall, Ernest Jones, C. G. Jung, Emil Kraepelin, René Laforgue, Nolan D. C. Lewis, Karl A. Menninger, Adolf Meyer, Sandor Rado, Otto Rank, Wilhelm Reich, Theodor Reik, Paul Schilder, Wilhelm Stekel, and William A. White. Also of interest is correspondence with botanists and letters received while in Germany in 1891. The letters and letterbooks are largely Jelliffe’s correspondence to and from his wife, Helena (“Lelie”) Dewey Leeming Jelliffe, daughter Helena Woodruff Jelliffe Goldschmidt, and sister Louise (“Lulu”) Jelliffe Long.
The Notes contain journals, notebooks, a study of Huntington’s chorea, lecture notes, and notes on articles concerning dementia praecox and other mental illnesses, all including many hand-drawn illustrations. Additional material related to the articles is found in the Miscellany series along with photographs, sketches by Jelliffe, and newspaper clippings.
The Genealogical Material and Biographical Material series contain notebooks of background information collected on various Jelliffe ancestors as well as autobiographical material on Jelliffe and correspondence from later years concerning genealogy. Photographs are also included in the Biographical Material.
The Scrapbooks and Memorabilia series consist of bound volumes containing correspondence, photographs, printed ephemera, newspaper clippings, and plant material. The scrapbooks relate to European trips. Also in Memorabilia are printed matter and diplomas.
The Addition contains a diary of Helena Dewey Leeming Jelliffe and a notebook of Jelliffe’s general observations. The general correspondence in the Addition was written mostly to and from family members including Jelliffe’s first wife, Helena Dewey Leeming Jelliffe; their daughters, Winifred Jelliffe Emerson, Helena Woodruff Jelliffe Goldschmidt, and Sylvia Canfield Jelliffe Stragnell; his sister Louise (“Lulu”) Jelliffe Long; brothers-in-law Thomas Lonsdale Leeming and Joseph Leeming; and second wife, Belinda (“Bee”) Jelliffe; as well as family friends. Included also is a scrapbook from a trip to Alaska in 1905 containing printed ephemera and plant material.
Letters, letterbooks, a notebook, and miscellaneous correspondence interspersed with photographs and illustrations.
Notebooks, journals, articles, and a lecture.
Notebooks on Jelliffe family interspersed with photographs and correspondence.
Autobiographical notes and typescript, photographs, and correspondence.
Bound volumes containing correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, and printed ephemera kept by the Jelliffe family relating to European trips.
Family photographs, sketches by Jelliffe, articles, and newspaper clippings.
Bound volumes containing newspaper clippings, photographs, plant material, printed ephemera, and correspondence.
Correspondence, diary, notebook, and scrapbook.
Diplomas.
The papers of Adolph Caspar Miller (1866-1953), member of the original Federal Reserve Board of Governors, span the years 1913-1947 and relate specifically to the administration of monetary policy during Miller’s service with the Federal Reserve Board. The collection is organized as received by topic, name of person or organization, or by type of material.
The collection consists of internal correspondence and memoranda from individuals and other Federal Reserve banks; typescripts and handwritten copies of published articles, speeches, and notes relating to international and domestic banking and finance, drafts and final copies of minutes, reports, and proceedings of meetings and conferences of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, agents, and chairmen from 1923 to 1936. There are also copies of correspondence and speeches and articles by several of Miller’s colleagues in academic and government service that relate to Federal Reserve policy. Among these items is an unpublished speech by Paul M. Warbug during his term as president of the Manhattan Corporation in 1930.
The collection includes internal correspondence and memoranda, internal documents and notes between Miller and members and staff of the Federal Reserve System, prominent individuals in banking and finance, and colleagues of Miller’s years as an academician. Correspondents include Carter Glass, E. A. Goldenweiser, Charles S. Hamlin, W. G. McAdoo Edmund Platt, Winfield W. Riefler, Walter Lichtenstein, Benjamin Strong, W. W. Stewart (director of the Federal Reserve Board’s Division of Analysis and Research), Paul M. Warburg, and John Skelton Williams.There are also letters and materials relating to the Panama Pacific International Exposition, of which Miller was chairman of government exhibits, 1914-1921.
Miller’s close relation with the White House is evidenced in the official and personal correspondence of the White, House, presidential letters, and individual correspondence files with Woodrow Wilson, Calvin Coolidge, Herbert Hoover, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. The correspondence with Hoover dates from his wartime service as food administrator, 1917-1919, as secretary of commerce under Presidents Warren G. Harding and Coolidge, 1921-1928, to his term as president, 1929-1933. This correspondence relates to international economic issues and policy such as economic recovery in Europe, inflation, foreign trade and the Commerce Department’s efforts to absorb the Agriculture Department’s function in foreign trade.
The papers also include correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, press releases and policy recommendations related to the Federal Advisory Council, dated 1916, 1920-1935, and the Open Market Investment Committee from 1923 to 1930. Parts of handwritten manuscripts and notes by Miller on subjects such as the Franco-German War, French Revolution, Industrial Revolution of 1837, new conditions favoring commerce, printed matter and miscellaneous memorabilia comprise the remainder of the collection.
The papers of Kirk Munroe (1850-1930) consist of diaries, correspondence, writings biographical material, photographs, subject files, printed matter, newspaper clippings, memorabilia, scrapbooks, drawings and watercolors, and an autographed guest book from “The Scrubub,” the Munroe home in Florida. The material extends from 1850 to 1940, with the bulk of the papers concentrated in the period 1867-1932. The collection is organized into four series: Diaries; General Correspondence; Article, Short Story and Book File; and Miscellany.
The papers relate primarily to Kirk Munroe’s literary career as an author of boy’s books; his adventures on a survey team for the Union Pacific and Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe railroads; trips into the Everglades, into the Hudson Bay region, and to the Far East on a world tour; his work in behalf of the Seminole people of Florida; and his canoeing and bicycling interests. These activities are documented principally by his writings, by the correspondence kept by himself and his two wives, by the diaries kept by himself, and by his first scrapbooks. The writings include handwritten drafts and printed copies of articles, short stories, essays, books, and poetry. The period of his life from 1870 to 1880 is poorly documented.
A diary dated 1853 was kept by Charles W. Munroe, Kirk Munroe’s father. Diaries dated 1867-1869, 1881, and 1923 were kept by Kirk Munroe. Diaries dated 1884-1922 were kept by Mary Barr Munroe, first wife of Kirk Munroe. There are no diaries for the years 1870-1880.
Correspondence to and from Kirk Munroe is meager and focused exclusively on his family for the years 1867-1869. There is considerable correspondence to and from his second wife, Mabel Stearns Munroe, with reference to a proposed biography of Kirk. Her correspondents include Poultney Bigelow, Frank W. Buxton, Randolph Edgar, Duncan U. Fletcher, Ward Greene, Hermann Hagedorn, James K. Hand, Arthur Milton Pope, Herbert Putnam, William F. Raney, Clement Francis Robinson, William A. Rodgers, Charles Scribner (1854-1930) W. P. Stephens, Lyman Beecher Stowe, and Ray L. Wilbur.
The Miscellany series contains family and biographical material, photographs, printed matter, various topical files, and scrapbooks of miscellaneous writings, diary excerpts, correspondence. photographs, and clippings. Depicted in the photographs in addition to the Munroe family are canoeing and bicycling scenes, views from a trip to Hudson Bay in 1909, Indians, and the Monroe home in Florida. Some of these same topics are documented in a subject file within the series, which also contains oversize drawings, sketches, and watercolors.
Bound diaries and folders of typed excerpts.
Letters sent and received.
Handwritten drafts and printed copies of articles, short stories, essays, books, and poetry by Munroe. Includes newspaper clippings and early newspaper articles possibly written by Munroe as a reporter; a scrapbook containing Munroe’s poetry; and bibliographies, notes, and related material.
Family and biographical material, photographs, printed matter, various topical files, scrapbooks of miscellaneous writings, diary excerpts, correspondence. photographs, and clippings, and oversize drawings, sketches, and watercolors.
The papers of Eger Vaughan Murphree (1898-1962) span the years 1932-1963, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1957-1962. The collection consists primarily of correspondence and speeches, supplemented by reports, memoranda, newspaper clippings, photographs, and biographical information. The papers are organized into three groupings: subject file, speeches and writings, and miscellany.
The correspondence in the subject file is composed primarily of carbons or photocopies of incoming and outgoing letters for the years 1956-1962. There is no correspondence previous to 1956. The correspondence is mostly of a business nature and concerns Murphree’s activities as president of Esso Research and Engineering Company, the research and development arm of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, and his activities as an official of the Fifth World Petroleum Congress in the period 1956-1960. Of special interest in the Fifth World Petroleum Congress file is correspondence relating to the admission of Soviet scientists to the United States and their restriction with regard to technical information.
Correspondents include William Sterling Byrd Lacy, John A. McCone, Richard M. Nixon, Glenn Theodore Seaborg, Lewis L. Strauss, and Edward Teller.
Murphree’s writings include typed, mimeographed, and handwritten copies of his speeches, addresses, and published articles for 1932-1962. An index to the published articles is in the biographical file in the miscellany.
The papers of Albert James Myer (1829-1880) span the years 1851-1933, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1851-1880. The collection contains correspondence, biographical material, and printed matter relating to Myer's service as a surgeon in the army from 1854 to 1860, especially his assignments at Fort Davis and Fort Duncan in Texas, where he observed warfare with Native American groups, and to his role in the founding and development of the Signal Corps, 1856-1880. Also treated is the contribution of the Signal Corps to Union military efforts in the Civil War. Correspondents include Myer's wife, Catherine Walden Myer, and James Walden.
The papers of Joseph Holt (1807-1894) span the years 1797-1917, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1859-1889. The collection consists principally of correspondence supplemented by diaries, ledgers, account books, bills and receipts, briefs and other legal papers, newspaper clippings, speeches, photographs, and printed matter. The collection is organized into seven series: General Correspondence and Related Material; Personal Correspondence, Winfield Scott Correspondence; Diaries, Notebooks, and Epistolary Records; Financial Papers; Miscellany; and Oversize.
Holt’s career as newspaper editor, lawyer, local politician, cabinet member, and first judge advocate general of the United States Army is illumined by this collection. Holt’s correspondence from the 1830s and 1840s relates largely to legal matters and politics in Kentucky and Mississippi. In particular, the letters from Albert Gallatin Hawes, a United States Representative from Kentucky, afford generous glimpses into politics of that state.
The emerging sectional conflicts that ultimately led to the Civil War drew Holt into national politics. On the eve of the war he occupied a prominent place in the ranks of the Democratic Party. In 1859, he was appointed postmaster general by President James Buchanan. In January 1861, he was appointed secretary of war, an appointment he later described in an article entitled “How I Became Secretary of War.” Among Holt’s tasks as secretary of war was keeping the peace in the capital during Lincoln’s inauguration. Correspondence between Holt and Winfield Scott reflects concern over numerous rumors of planned assassination attempts by the Knights of the Golden Circle and other pro-Southern organizations.
On Sept. 3, 1862, Holt was appointed judge advocate general of the army. Though a Southerner and a Democrat, he supported the Union. The newly-created post to which he was named carried the responsibility for the establishment of military commissions with jurisdiction over civilian offenders.
On May 4, 1865, a military commission was convened to try the Abraham Lincoln assassination conspirators. The event was to color the rest of Holt’s life. The Holt Papers contain voluminous correspondence regarding the commission as well as affidavits, depositions, transcribed testimony, and various versions of the charges against the conspirators. Particularly noteworthy is the correspondence between Holt and Louis J. Weichmann, a principal government witness in the conspiracy trial. Their correspondence began in May 1865 and continued for almost thirty years. Also in the collection are items relating to allegations that Holt suppressed a clemency petition addressed to President Andrew Johnson on behalf of Mary Surratt; a seven-page letter from Mrs. Samuel Mudd to Holt, pleading her husband’s innocence; Holt’s correspondence with other members of the commission after the trial; and a draft of the charges against the conspirators in the handwriting of Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton.
Correspondents include Jeremiah S. Black, James Buchanan, Simon Cameron, James A. Garfield, Ulysses S. Grant, John Marshall Harlan, John Hay, Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Mary Harrison Holt, Margaret Wickliffe Holt, Richard S. Holt, Samuel P. Holt, Thomas H. Holt, Reverdy Johnson, Horatio King, Harriet Lane, Francis Lieber, Abraham Lincoln, Benjamin Rush, John G. Nicolay, Amelie L. de Noircy, Winfield Scott, J. Marion Sims, James Speed, and Lew Wallace.
Bound volumes of letters received and sent. Includes transcripts of the trial of the Abraham Lincoln assassination conspirators, drafts of the charges, transcripts of correspondence, legal miscellany, speeches to the juries, and other miscellaneous items.
Mainly correspondence with family members and friends.
Letters between Holt and Scott.
Diaries, notebooks, and epistolary record.
Canceled checkbook, ledgers, account books, bills and receipts, and indenture.
Invitations, acceptances, calling cards, legal notes, a French copybook, roll book, passport, clippings, photographs, printed matter, an article by Holt, editorial remarks, an autobiography of Holt, and scrapbooks.
Maps, financial papers, newspapers, and printed matter.
The papers of Merrill Moore (1903-1957) span the period 1904-1979, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the years 1928-1957. The collection consists primarily of correspondence and writings, supplemented by diaries, notebooks, scrapbooks, printed matter, clippings, and miscellany. Documenting Moore's career as a psychiatrist and poet, the papers are organized into nine series: Diaries, Reminiscences, and Notebooks; Family Correspondence and Special File; General Correspondence; Subject File; Literary File; Scrapbooks (Oversize); Clippings; Miscellany; and Addition.
Moore made sporadic efforts to keep a diary, but his notes are extensive only for the period he spent in New Zealand during World War II. These notes are accompanied by memoranda and miscellaneous items that he collected in anticipation of writing a book based on his experiences. This material, which documents his service as a medical officer as well as his literary activities and plans, is most exhaustive for November 1942, when he sailed from San Francisco to Auckland, New Zealand, and for June 1943, when he made a brief visit to Guadalcanal.
Material concerning Moore's medical career, which spanned almost three decades, is contained in the General Correspondence and Subject File series. Graduating from Vanderbilt Medical School in 1928, Moore served his internship in Nashville and then entered an extensive period of training in neurology and psychiatry in the Boston area. During the course of his training, Moore came into contact with several leading neurologists and psychiatrists, including Alexandra Adler, Arlie V. Bock, Stanley Cobb, Winfred Overholser, Hanns Sachs, Harry C. Solomon, and Frederic Lyman Wells. All are represented by correspondence.
Moore also devoted much time to original research, particularly in areas directly related to mental illness and neurological disease. His extensive writings on the subjects of alcoholism, suicide, syphilis, drug addiction, and related topics are located in the Subject File. Four years of military service in the Pacific theater failed to dampen his productivity. His work in the areas of shell shock and alcoholism among military personnel, as well as his efforts to encourage and improve neurological services in military hospitals, is amply represented in both series.
Other subjects in the papers include Moore's efforts in 1938-1940 to aid Jewish doctors who were fleeing Nazi Germany. Moore's role as a consultant in 1940-1941 with companies making bromides, as well as controversies concerning the products' effectiveness, is also documented, especially in correspondence with Walter Compton (1912-1955) and George Ross Veazey in the Subject File series. The papers also contain substantial material relating to Moore's tour of duty in China in 1946 and correspondence in subsequent years with friends who remained in China or were deeply concerned about conditions there.
In the tradition of Oliver Wendell Holmes and William Carlos Williams, Moore coupled his medical career with an equally successful literary career. He derived much of his early interest in literature from his father, John Trotwood Moore, a poet, novelist, essayist, and historian. While still in high school, Moore developed his lifelong enthusiasm for the sonnet as a medium of expression. Soon after entering Vanderbilt University, he joined a group of fellow students and some of their teachers who were to form one of the most distinctive and cohesive literary groups of the twentieth century. Adopting the name Fugitives, the group made its contribution through the pages of The Fugitive (1922-1925), a magazine of verse. As a contributor to the magazine, Moore first revealed the propensity for experimentation and innovation that would mark his subsequent work and lead his biographer to characterize his poetry as “an essentially new and a highly significant experiment.” [1] At the same time, he cemented his commitment to sonnets.
[1] Henry Willis Wells, Poet and Psychiatrist: Merrill, M.D. (New York: Twayne [1955]), 2.
In the following years, Moore became something of a literary phenomenon by writing over fifty thousand sonnets, only a small portion of which were published. A large part of this production is represented in the Literary File. The series includes drafts, revisions, and fragments, as well as complete sonnets, and provides a broad base for a full analysis of his verse. The wide range of literary correspondence in the General Correspondence and Subject File series serves as a valuable supplement to the work itself. Moore corresponded with numerous literary figures, including Donald Davidson, Dudley Fitts, John Crowe Ransom, Allen Tate, and Louis Untermeyer.
The Addition to the papers contains family and general correspondence and research material for a project Moore conducted at the Harvard Psychology Clinic. Included are outlines, drafts, and supplementary research, 1954-1975, for the publication of a book. Interviews were conducted with Moore by Christiana D. Morgan. Excerpts from these interviews are scattered throughout the Addition as well as earlier sessions conducted with Robert N. Wilson, and research notes of Ina Mae Greer. Also included is a typescript of the intended publication, designated second version: “Merrill Moore, M.D. The Creative Process in a Living Poet: A Study of the Genesis of Certain Forms of the Imagination.”
Diaries, diary notes, reminiscences, and notebooks.
Correspondence, clipping book, diary notes, transcripts, and printed matter.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, supplemented by memoranda, two bound volumes of acknowledgments, and miscellaneous enclosures and attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, writings, notes, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Holograph, typed, and printed sonnets, supplemented by poems, prose writings, published articles and books, and miscellaneous material.
Scrapbooks of newspaper clippings, usually focusing on a particular topic, supplemented by occasional miscellaneous material.
Chiefly unbound newspaper clippings.
Research notes, miscellaneous notes, a fragment of an appointment book, an unidentified bibliography of reprints, a deposition, invitations, and a speech.
Family correspondence, general correspondence, miscellany, and research material.
The papers of Garfield Bromley Oxnam (1891-1963) consist of diaries, correspondence, subject files, writings, addresses, sermons, lectures, notebooks, scrapbooks, daily records, and related material documenting the span of Bishop Oxnam's long career of religious and public service. The material extends from 1823 to 1963, with the bulk of the papers falling within the period 1912-1960. The collection is organized into eight series: Diaries and Journals; General Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article and Book File; Addresses, Lectures, and Sermons; Notes, Miscellaneous Papers, Records, and Reports; Miscellany; and Scrapbooks.
The diaries, subject files, and writings constitute the most important parts of the collection. Extensive and voluminous, the diaries are supplemented by correspondence, newspaper clippings, programs, church bulletins, photographs, articles, book reviews, addresses, sermons, lectures, notes, memoranda, reports, and records. Although there are no diaries for 1922, 1924, 1925, 1927, and 1932, entries for these years are contained in miscellaneous volumes at the end of the series. The diary entries for 1961-1963 are sketchy and sparse.
The Subject File series covers Oxnam's role in controversies over diplomatic relations between the United States and the Vatican, his participation in the issue of church and state and Protestantism as it related to Catholicism, the charges made against him of un-Americanism, his work with the Church of All Nations in Los Angeles, academic career, and other subjects closely related to Oxnam's life.
The Scrapbooks series presents in great detail Oxnam's life as reported by the press. He was involved in public as well as religious affairs, and his activities and views generated considerable publicity, which is reflected in the Scrapbooks.
Prominent or frequent correspondents include Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople Athēnagoras I, George Smith Brown, Samuel McCrea Cavert, Matthew J. Connelly, Henry Hitt Crane, John Foster Dulles, Sherwood Eddy, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Franklin Clark Fry, Frederick Brown Harris, Cordell Hull, Donald Lester Jackson, David Eli Lilienthal, Marvin Hunter McIntyre, Carl McIntire, Louie D. Newton, Charles C. Parlin, Daniel A. Polling, Eleanor Roosevelt, Franklin Roosevelt, Henry Knox Sherrill, William L. Stidger, Henry L. Stimson, Myron Charles Taylor, Harry S. Truman, Harold Himmel Velde, Henry A. Wallace, and Herbert Welch. There is also considerable correspondence from the general public, most of it in the Subject File.
Fifty-nine volumes and several folders of loose pages containing lengthy daily entries, correspondence, printed matter, programs, church bulletins, newspaper clippings, photographs, articles, book reviews, addresses, sermons, lectures, notes, memoranda, reports, and records.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, journals, reports, records, memoranda, articles, book reviews, addresses, sermons, lectures, notes, printed matter, scrapbooks, programs, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
Drafts, typescripts and printed copies of articles, book reviews, typescripts of books and seminar papers, miscellaneous outlines, and related material.
Bound and unbound outlines, drafts, typescripts, and printed copies.
Bound and unbound.
Early newspapers, biographical material, church statistics, newspaper clippings, printed matter, notes, memoranda, and photographs.
Mounted memoranda, records, reports, notes, church bulletins, programs, early sermons and lecture outlines, miscellaneous papers, printed matter, and newspaper and magazine clippings.
The records of the San José de Queréndaro Hacienda consist of two manuscript volumes relating principally to the areas surrounding La Laguna de Cuitzeo, Michoacán de Ocampo, in the period 1543-1922. Written in Spanish, the bulk of the documents span the years 1580-1883, with the years 1700-1731, 1805-1839, and 1862-1883 especially well covered. Each volume is separated into cuadernos, subdivisions based on subject content.
The Compañía de Jesús (Society of Jesus) received official royal title to the lands in 1643. As early as 1631 the Hacienda de Queréndaro, under the jurisdiction of the Colegio de Valladolid, produced 1000 bushels of wheat, 600 bushels of maize, and raised 200 cattle and 30 horses. The Jesuit occupiers of the land added to their holdings, most notably entering into an agreement in 1720 to purchase the adjoining haciendas of San Antonio, San Bernardo, Zinzimeo, and la Trasquila from the Conde de Lizarraga. By 1767 production included wheat, maize, chiles, beans, sugar, and both large and small livestock. In 1767 the expulsion of the Jesuits from all Spanish territory as enemies of the Crown resulted in the expropriation of Queréndaro by the Ramo de Temporalidades.
In 1804 the Condes de Heras Soto purchased the estate from the Crown. Sebastian de Heras Soto served as a royalist commander in the War of Independence. His son, Manuel de Heras Soto, signed the Act of Mexican Independence, and his decendant, Tómas López Pimentel, was a supporter of the Mexican empire of Maximillian of Hapsburg. During the nineteenth century, the Heras/Pimentel family were accused of claiming or purchasing lands which ostensibly belonged to the neighboring indigenous towns of Zinapécuaro and Queréndaro.
Documents in these volumes served as supporting evidence in disputes between the owners of the Hacienda de Queréndaro, neighboring estates, and nearby indigenous pueblos. The majority of the litigation revolved around the claims of the Jesuits and subsequent owners of the Hacienda de Queréndaro to various lands and waters in the region. These claims were frequently disputed by the Hacienda de Santa Clara de Tulillo and the Pueblos de Queréndaro and Zinapécuaro.
The records include various Real Provisiones (royal decrees), Audiencia rulings, mercedes (land grants), acts of land possession, various suits and countersuits, correspondence, estate inventories, wills and testaments, bills of sale, rental agreements, mortgage/loan material, and fiscal accounts. Subjects include the acquisition and sale of land, ownership disputes, water rights, the establishment of property boundaries, rental of property, relations with indigenous villages, legal procedure, the role of women in estate operations, inheritance, Temporalidades (the royal branch responsible for the sale of Jesuit properties), the impact of the Mexican War of Independence, agricultural production, the functioning of an obraje, and railway construction. The documents may have been assembled in their present form in the 1920s-1930s as part of the last recorded dispute between the Hacienda de Queréndaro and Ferrocarriles Nacionales de México y Anexas.
Individual owners and important figures appearing in the text include Manuel Abad y Quiepo, Juan Bárcena, Miguel Bárcena, Sebastian de Heras Soto, first Conde de Heras Soto, Ignacio de Heras Soto, Mariana de Heras Soto (b. 1791), Mariana de Heras Soto (b.1809), Tomás López Pimentel, José Antonio López Peña, and José Pimentel y Heras.
The autograph collection of Sarah Stone (fl. 1840) spans the years 1720-1962, with the latest autographed item dating from 1947. The collection contains letters, clipped signatures, and other signed items of prominent American and a few British figures, chiefly of the nineteenth century.
The collection originated with Henry Colman (1785-1849), a Unitarian clergyman and friend of the Stone family, who initiated it with the gift of nineteen items to Sarah Stone in the early 1840s. Colman had received the items mainly in the course of studying agricultural methods in this country and in Europe, including signed letters by George Washington and British General Augustine Prevost during the Revolutionary War. Colman’s correspondents include John Adams, Henry Clay, Edward Everett (who in 1837 appointed him commissioner to make an agricultural survey of Massachusetts) Angelina Emily Grimké, Benjamin Silliman, James Madison, Daniel Webster, and Martin Van Buren.
Other persons represented include John Quincy Adams, James Buchanan, Benjamin F. Butler, John C. Calhoun, Albert Einstein, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Alexander Hamilton, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Thomas Jefferson, James Russell Lowell, Charles Eliot Norton, and Booker T. Washington. Some letters were received by Sarah Stone herself or by members of her family, who were sailors and ship owners of Salem, Massachusetts, during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, active in trade with China, Sumatra, and the West Indies. Some were friends of the family of Washington Irving. There are references to Irving in their correspondence as well as one of the author’s letters and a page of a manuscript in his hand.
The papers of diplomat and economist Norman Hezekiah Davis (1878-1944) span the years 1898-1979 with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1915 and 1944. In 1902 Davis began his business career in Cuba where he organized the Trust Company of Cuba. He commenced a public career in 1917 and served in four presidential administrations consulting on international finance at the Department of Treasury, the Department of State, and international conferences and committees during World War I and the the interwar period. Davis was chairman of the of the American Red Cross from 1938 to his death in 1944.
The papers are organized into seven series: Correspondence and Other Papers, Printed Matter, Addition I, Addition II, Addition III, Oversize, and Classified. The Correspondence and Other Papers series consists of correspondence, diaries, journals, minutes, addresses, statements, scrapbooks, memoranda, clippings, printed matter, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to Davis’s services as a participant in international conferences and commissions on peace, disarmament, monetary matters and as a financial and economic consultant. The series includes material on conferences and organizations including the Supreme Economic Council of the Allied and Associated Powers (1914-1920), the Armistice, Paris Peace Conference (1919), International Economic Conference (Geneva, 1927), League of Nations, Limitation of Arms Conference (Geneva, 1932-1934), Monetary and Economic Conference (London, 1933), London Naval Conference (1935-1936), the Brussels Nine-Power Conference (1937), and other conferences and organizations. Correspondents include Herbert Hoover, Viscount Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, Cecil of Chelwood, Cordell Hull, Thomas W. Lamont, and Frank A. Vanderlip.
Letters sent and received, memoranda, copies of statements and addresses, journals, minutes, addresses, statements, scrapbooks, memoranda, clippings, printed matter, photographs, and miscellaneous material.
Mainly newspaper clippings relating to international trade and finance, and to international conferences.
Financial papers, subject files, correspondence, printed matter, and newspaper clippings
Subject files on the Peace Commission and miscellaneous correspondence, writings, notes, printed matter, clippings, and other material.
Correspondence, speeches and writings, subject files, printed matter, and photographs.
Scrapbooks and photographs.
Documents containing national security information removed from the collection.
The papers of James H. Doolittle (1896-1993) span the years 1919-1990, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1940-1960 and consisting of correspondence, speeches, writings, reports, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, awards, maps, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to Doolittle's service in the United States Air Force. Doolittle had a long career as a civilian and military aviator, government official and adviser, and business executive, but he was most celebrated for directing and leading an air raid on Tokyo in the early months of World War II against Japan. The collection is organized into seven series: Correspondence File, General File, National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Speeches and Articles, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
Included in the collection are military records of Doolittle and a large amount of photographs and printed material. In general, the correspondence contains routine discussions of business matters, hunting trips, social affairs, and reunions of the American fliers who attacked Tokyo in April 1942. Materials relating to the raid include a map of Japan signed by some of the participants, telegrams from Generals George C. Marshall and Henry Harley Arnold, a handwritten memorandum from Admiral Ernest Joseph King, and letters of thanks and appreciation from Admiral William F. Halsey and May Ling-Soong Chiang. Additional correspondents from the war period include letters from Dwight D. Eisenhower, George S. Patton, Carl Spaatz, and Maxwell D. Taylor.
An addition to the papers includes correspondence, articles about Doolittle, and a photograph showing a formation of B-25s in dual mode. Most of the correspondence consists of short notes from Doolittle thanking Lee R. Magnolia for sending clippings related to aviation, aerospace, politics, whaling, and other topics.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, memoranda, invitations, reports, lists, studies, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Meeting reports and minutes.
Copies of speeches and articles and related source material.
Correspondence, reports, speeches and writings, photographs and photographs albums, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, magazines, pamphlets and brochures, and other miscellany.
Correspondence, articles about Doolittle, and photograph.
An award.
The papers of Richard Dudman (1918-) span the years 1911-2014 and consist of correspondence, notebooks, writings, and background material relating mainly to his career as a journalist with the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. Prominent topics include his coverage of the war in Vietnam and reporting on the Middle East, Cuba, Southeast Asia, and China during a period of cold war and revolutions. Others subjects relate to domestic politics in the 1960s and 1970s including Watergate, right-wing conservatism, and the Jimmy Carter administration. The collection is organized into six series whose contents reflect the arrangement and description of the material as it was received in installments from Dudman: General Correspondence, Notebooks, Subject File, Writings, and Addition I and Addition II.
In the spring of 1965, the studied calm that generally characterizes meetings of the Massachusetts Historical society was disturbed when a troubled federal judge, Charles Wyzanski, posed several questions about the course of current events.[1] Judge Wyzanski was bothered by the little-debated but widening war in Vietnam, and he asked Walter Lippman, a guest of the society, if all the facts were accessible to the “informed public,” which he defined as “the type that reads the New York papers and the Washington papers.” Lippmann replied that the most relevant facts were available, but not in the New York or Washington papers, and he praised a recent series by “a correspondent of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch who's an old hand out there, Richard Dudman.... I have checked those articles against our own intelligence sources privately. They are perfectly correct.... [H]e shows that the Viet Cong has won the war in the countryside of South Vietnam.” [2]
Richard Dudman had been a reporter for the Post-Dispatch since, 1949, and Walter Lippman's endorsement reflected the widespread respect that Dudman's work enjoyed among readers and reporters alike. His news articles and columns are a distillation of the major public events of the post-war era, and his papers provide important insights into the character of his career. The papers, listed in the 1978 [Manuscript Division] acquisitions report, were formally deposited by Mr. Dudman in 1979. They range from 1946 to 1978 and include correspondence, research files, clippings, and notebooks that document a newspaperman's odyssey. There are fascinating glimpses of half a dozen revolutions, Israeli operations in the 1956 Sinai campaign, the Lebanon crisis of 1958, Cuba, Laos, Cambodia, China, the two Vietnams, and other troubled spots throughout the world. Dudman's papers are also valuable for exploring a wide range of domestic political problems, and there are interesting files on right-wing politics, the Watergate scandals, and other major issues that have emerged since World War II. In 1969, after twenty years and over fifteen hundred stories with the Post-Dispatch, he became chief of the newspaper's Washington bureau, a post from which he continued to survey American politics and the world beyond until his retirement.
The collection consists of approximately sixty-three hundred items, and it has an organic character that gives it special value for researchers. There are clear relationships between the notebooks, the columns, and the correspondence that permit one to follow the story as it emerged, as it appeared, and as it provided the basis for Dudman's further reflections. On a number of matters, such as the Dixon-Yates plan, Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign, and negotiations leading to American withdrawal in Vietnam, there are memoranda from Dudman to his editors that show how his articles took shape. More frequently, fragments appear in his notebooks that help one understand events as they unfolded for him. Correspondence with readers and fellow newsmen gives other insights into Dudman's efforts to reconstruct and interpret the events of the day.
Wide-ranging personal interests and the multiple demands made on reporters in a Washington bureau have led Dudman to explore an incredible range of problems, but he is perhaps most frequently associated with his coverage of the war in Vietnam. Dudman first went to South Vietnam in 1962, and his many subsequent visits to the field combined with his assessment of his decisions in Washington to make him and the Post-Dispatch leading critics of the war. In early 1965, while he was in Vietnam preparing the series that Lippman praised, Dudman wrote his colleague Marquis Childs, that “[m]y own view is that the war is being lost, and in a hurry.” As events developed during the remainder of the decade, Dudman retained a commendable open-minded sensitivity to the complexities of the quagmire, but his earliest impression that the war was an overwhelmingly flawed enterprise continued to be the central theme of his reporting. Thus the jottings in his notebooks on Vietnam are particularly lively, and they reveal the human dimensions as well as the structural dynamics of war. Typical notes from January 1970 describe Henry Kissinger's deputy, General Al Haig, as “RA [Regular Army] all the way.... JCS insisted he sit at Henry's elbow. Sits on Henry's info flow.” A briefing on the situation in Vietnam was summed up as “The line—Enemy capability down,” with emphasis supplied by the uncharacteristic underscoring. “All quotas met” (and furiously underscored by Dudman) characterized the Phoenix program, an element in the assault on the Viet Cong infrastructure that included assassination. Dudman wrote several critical pieces about the Phoenix program, and his papers also include interesting exchanges with government officials who ran the program.
Perhaps the most unusual documents in the Dudman Papers are the notes he took during May and June 1970, when he and two other reporters covering the Cambodian incursion were captured by forces of the National Liberation Front. Dudman and his colleagues were held for forty days, and following his release he transformed these jottings, many of them on student's lined copybook paper, into one of the most dramatic series of the war. Other materials relating to the series and to the book that followed, Forty Days with the Enemy (New York: Liversight, 1971. 182 p.), are contained in the papers. Dudman's capture and release gave renewed hope to the families of many journalists who had not been so fortunate, and he began to play a larger role in the many efforts to secure the return of those still listed among the missing. One of the most poignant experiences of the war is reflected in his exchanges with Patricia Hangen, the wife of a missing television correspondent, and her spirit, persistence, and dignity give the tragedy of her husband's disappearance in Cambodia a special sadness.
It is appropriate that a collection which documents the full range of public issues also runs the gamut of private emotions, for there are lighter moments in the Dudman Papers that give some balance to the more somber situations he encountered. Among the most delightful notes in the collection are letters from his daughters in 1966, when he was midway through his third trip to Vietnam. Janet, a high school student, sought his advice about which modern language she should study. “I am seriously considering Russian but I don't know. Please answer because we have to answer soon.” His daughter Martha asked him “to write me about the situation there, and explain it so I can tell those guys I argue with. OK?” Such family letters appear throughout the collection, and they will provide students of modern journalism with a valuable angle of vision on the life of a reporter on assignment.
Following a tour of the Middle East in 1956, Dudman wrote Joseph Pulitzer, Jr., his publisher, that he “found government leaders impressed that a Middle Western American newspaper would send its own reporter there, and they were correspondingly helpful.” Dudman's career and the traditions of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch confirm the important national contributions that regional newspapers have made to the American experience. The Library of Congress is fortunate to have the papers of many who have been associated with the Post-Dispatch, such as Joseph Pulitzer, Joseph Pulitzer, Jr., Irving Brant, Bill Mauldin, and Wallace Deuel. Thus future students will be able to consult the Dudman Papers within a particularly rich documentary context.
Material from Addition I are mostly topical files and supplement the Subject File and Writings series. Also included are drafts and supporting material for Dudman's Men of the Far Right and Forty Days with the Enemy. Addition II primarily relates to Dudman's life and continued work in journalism following his retirement from the St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1981. Material documents his work with the Bangor Daily News and the South-North News Service; involvement with the Maine Lobster Promotion Council; and advocacy for the JUMP playground in Ellsworth, Maine. In 1986, Dudman briefly returned on a special assignment to the St. Louis Post-Dispatch to cover the tenth anniversary of the Tangshan earthquake in China. In 1994, he returned to Vietnam on another special assignment to interview the Viet Cong officer who captured and released him and two other journalists in 1970. Both assignments are included in the papers along with other writings about and by Dudman.
1. The following description is taken from Library of Congress Acquisitions, Manuscript Division, 1979 (Washington, D.C.: 1981): 24-26. It describes the collection before the Addition series was appended to the collection in 1985.
2. Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 1965 77 (1966): 90.
Letters sent and received.
Reporter's notebooks.
Correspondence, notes, reports, clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material compiled for background reference.
Mostly clippings and printed copies of news articles but including typewritten copies and dispatches.
Correspondence, writings, subject files, notebooks, photographs, and miscellaneous material described by topic or type of material.
Writings, correspondence, photographs, printed matter, subject files, and other papers.
The papers of Samuel Franklin Emmons (1841-1911) span the years 1725-1913, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1861-1911. The collection consists of diaries and field notes, letterbooks, correspondence, family papers, subject files, financial records, photographs, printed matter, and scrapbooks. Some material is in French, German, Spanish, and Italian. The collection was damaged by fire and water prior to being received by the Library and much of it is in fragile or decayed condition.
The papers treat Emmons's education, personal life, and business ventures, but the focus is on his explorations in the western United States, on geological formations and mines and mining, and on the United States Geological Survey that Emmons cofounded with Clarence King (1842-1901). Prominent in the collection are files pertaining to the United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel, 1867-1876. There is considerable family material, including correspondence with his uncle, N. Henry Evans, and papers relating to his wives, Sophie D. Markoe and Suzanne Earle Odgen-Jones Emmons Bartlett.
Diary volumes and field notes.
General letterbooks containing copies of incoming and outgoing correspondence on business, financial, and legal matters.
Letters sent and received by Emmons and family members.
Expense records, account books, ledgers, and miscellany.
Reports and writings, printed matter, photographs, educational and training materials, financial and legal records, congressional hearing records, commemorative material, address and appointment books, genealogical and social records, drawings and music.
Autographs, quotations, and birthday greetings collected by Markoe and her correspondence, diary, financial records, and society notices.
Correspondence, financial records, calling cards, invitations, and miscellany.
One volume covers the United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth Parallel with general volumes and newspaper clippings.
Drawings, genealogical notes, maps, photographs, and a presidential proclamation.
The papers of John Clement Fitzpatrick (1876-1940) comprise four series spanning 1927-1940: General Correspondence, Correspondence with Sol Bloom, Miscellany, and Oversize. The bulk of the papers consists of correspondence dating between 1927 and 1941 centering on Fitzpatrick's service as editor of The Writings of George Washington from the Original Manuscript Sources, 1745-1799, prepared under the direction of the George Washington Bicentennial Commission. Included are letters concerning the location of original Washington documents to be published in the volumes and correspondence with the Government Printing Office relating to the printing of these volumes.
Because Fitzpatrick was widely regarded as an authority on George Washington, much of the General Correspondence series concerns inquiries the editor received about Washington. The nationwide observance of the bicentennial of Washington's birth stimulated interest in every conceivable aspect of Washington's personal and public life. Fitzpatrick's replies to these wide-ranging questions are a valuable source of information on Washington. Various letters concern Washington's appearance and his dental problems, dentures, and dentist. There is also correspondence regarding the president's birthday, birthplace, death, burial, grave, and life mask, as well as other questions about his education and his ideas on education, his library, bookplate, sword, and the coat of arms and genealogy of the Washington family. Also included is a reply concerning a portrait of Mary Ball Washington, George Washington's mother, and considerable material on various portraits of Washington and Jean Antoine Houdon's bust of the president. Additionally, Fitzpatrick received many inquiries about the Washington "scandals," which he had attempted to refute in his pamphlet published in 1929. Washington's acts of charity, his religion and the so-called Washington's prayer, and his order against profanity are among other topics covered.
Fitzpatrick also received letters inquiring about Washington's surveys, travels, and writings, including among the latter his diaries, journals, account books, farewell address to the army, presidential farewell address, and both inaugural addresses. There is material relating to Mount Vernon, to Washington's marriage, including the date, place, and officiating minister, and to Washington's Masonic activities. There is also material relating to the origin of the Purple Heart award, correspondence about the papers of Washington's aide and friend, Tobias Lear, and answers to queries regarding the Declaration of Independence.
Sol Bloom, United States representative from New York, was vice chairman of the Washington Bicentennial Commission. There are letters to and from him in the General Correspondence series and also a separate series of his correspondence in connection with the commission. Bloom was interested in the observance of the sesquicentennial of the Constitution, and his correspondence contains a file, 1934-1938, concerning this project. William H. Richardson of New Jersey is also heavily represented in Fitzpatrick's General Correspondence. Richardson wrote extensively about the history of New Jersey during the American Revolution, Washington's activities in New Jersey, and the "Flying Camp." Also included in the collection is a file of mimeographed and printed matter that was sent to Fitzpatrick by Richardson.
Among the items in the Miscellany are photostats of letters of most signers of the Constitution, drafts of and notes for speeches by Fitzpatrick, proofs of the index and illustrative material for Writings of George Washington, plates of illustrations for Fitzpatrick's Aides and Secretaries to Gen. George Washington, transcripts, notes and drafts relating to a study of Virginia colonial governors, miscellaneous newspaper clippings, and Oversize photostats of amendments and proposed amendments to the Constitution.
In 1988 three card files maintained by Fitzpatrick were added to the collection. One file contains addresses of acquaintances, reference librarians, historical societies, book shops, publishers and editors, heads of history department, and historians. The second file is Fitzpatrick's working card index to his Writings of George Washington, and the third is a record of the material that he sent to the Government Printing Office for the publication of the Writings.
Correspondents in the General Correspondence series include Randolph Greenfield Adams, Maxwell Anderson, George A. Ball, Sol Bloom, Julian P. Boyd, Roy Bird Cook, Francis Pendleton Gaines, Curtis Wiswell Garrison, Louis F. Gottschalk, U. S. Grant (1881-1968), Alfred Bushnell Hart, Archibald Henderson, Rupert Hughes, J. Franklin Jameson, David Maydole Matteson, Samuel Eliot Morison, Elwin L. Page, Victor Hugo Paltsits, Josiah Harmar Penniman, William H. Richardson, James Alexander Robertson, Ernest Spofford, E. G. Swem, Alexander J. Wall, Charles Cecil Wall, Bernard Wolf Weinberger, and Henry Woodhouse.
Letters received and sent relating mainly to Writings of George Washington and questions and answers relating to all aspects of Washington's public and private life.
Correspondence with Bloom on general topics and concerning the sesquicentennial of the Constitution.
Correspondence, draft writings, articles, notes, meeting minutes, printed matter, newspaper clippings, photostats, and miscellaneous material relating to New Jersey in the American revolution and to other Revolutionary War era topics, and to Writings of George Washington and other works by Fitzpatrick and others.
Photostats of amendments and proposed amendments to the Constitution and card indexes
The Library of Congress Copyright Office Mask Work deposits span the years 1985-1997. The collection consists of a representative sampling of mask works (schematic plans or layouts of an integrated circuit or computer chip) deposited with the Library of Congress Copyright Office. Per the Semiconductor Chip Protection Act of 1984, mask works are deposited with the Copyright Office by their manufacturers. The Copyright Office is obligated to retain the designs thirteen years after registration. Because Copyright Records Management was ready to dispose of the mask works it was no longer obligated to keep, the Manuscript Division decided to retain them by transfer. The Manuscript Division retained a representative sampling (every twentieth deposit) rather than accept the entire transfer.
The records of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice span the years 1871-1953. The collection consists chiefly of reports relating to persons arrested as a result of the society's actions, including data on the offender's age, nationality, religion, education, offense, evidence seized, and legal action taken. Included are notations by Anthony Comstock, secretary of the society (1873-1915), and records relating to the society's predecessor, the Young Men's Christian Association of the City of New York Committee for the Suppression of Vice. Also in the collection are miscellaneous correspondence, photographs and other papers.
The papers of William Thomas Rawleigh (1870-1951) span the years 1911-1931 and consist primarily of material relating to the 1924 presidential campaign of Robert M. La Follette (1855-1925). Included is correspondence, financial records, lists, charts, promotional material, printed matter, and miscellaneous material. Also in the collection is correspondence concerning the Progressive Republican League of Illinois and material related to the W.T. Rawleigh Company, which Rawleigh established. Correspondents include Hartwell L. Brunson, Herman Lewis Ekern, Fred L. Holmes, Willliam Hugh Johnston, Charles J. MacGowan, John Mandt Nelson, and Oswald Garrison Villard.
The collection of Russia Miscellany spans the years 1759-1928 and includes a manuscript of thanksgiving service for victory of Russian troops over the King of Prussia at Frankfort am Main, Germany, 1759; letters in German relating to the Women's Association of Riga, Latvia,1846-1859; officer attendance records of the Nicolaevski Academy of the General Staff, St. Petersburg, Russia, 1879-1881; and other papers. Material is in Russian, German, and English.
The papers of Lewis Nathaniel Chase (1873-1937) span the years 1836-1947, with the bulk of the material between 1900 and 1941. The collection consists of correspondence, writings, biographical matter, student papers, printed material, and miscellany relating to Chase's career as an editor, author, and English professor in various universities in the United States and abroad, including India and China. Featured is editorial correspondence with thousands of American and English authors of his period, including most notably Conrad Aiken, Walter De la Mare, Robert Frost, Thomas Hardy, A. E. Housman, Edgar Lee Masters, Edna St. Vincent Millay, and Edward Arlington Robinson. Additionally there is his correspondence with artists, musicians, and actors, as well as his lecture notes, literary manuscripts, family letters, diaries and scrapbooks. Also in the collection is correspondence, diaries, writings, poetry, notes, and other papers of Chase's first wife, Pearl-Adell Chase; his second wife, Emma Lester Chase; and other family members.
The collection is in the folders and order in which it was received but is organized into eight series: Correspondence with Poets; Correspondence with Authors, Artists, Musicians, and Actors; General File; Family Correspondence; Miscellany; Other Family Members; China; and Addition.
Correspondence between Chase and American and English poets.
Letters to and others in literature and the arts.
Miscellaneous correspondence, lecture notes, brochures, clippings and printed matter, student exams, other papers and reports, and related matter.
Correspondence of Lewis Nathaniel Chase, Pearl-Adell Chase, and other family members. Organized into three files: letters from Lewis Chase's parents and other family members, letters from Lewis Chase and Pearl-Adell Chase to members of his family, and correspondence of other members of the Chase family.
Biographical and diary material, lecture notes, press clippings, printed matter, and other papers relating to Nathaniel Lewis Chase.
Files relating to Pearl-Adell Chase and Emma Chase, including correspondence, diaries, notes, writings, and other family material.
Letters to and from Chinese friends and acquaintances, writings and clippings on China, notes, student papers, and related matter.
Poetry.
The papers of the Ebenezer Foote (1756-1829) family span the years 1751-1871, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1790-1807. The collection consists of family and general correspondence, orders, petitions, and legal and other papers of Foote and various members of his family including Charles Augustus Foote (1785-1828), Charles Augustus Foote (1818-1883), Frederick Parsons Foote (1783-1827), Harriet Foote (1773-1842), Justin Foote (born 1762), and Rensselaer Foote (1815-1862). Topics include the Tammany Society of New York, the death of Alexander Hamilton, the War of 1812, the incident aboard the frigate Chesapeake in 1813, the first Seminole War, and New York politics.
The papers of David Rapaport (1911-1960) span the years 1911-1997, with the bulk of the material dating from 1948 to 1960. The collection documents Rapaport's research and writings in the fields of psychology and psychoanalysis largely as a research associate at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Massachusetts. The papers are in English and Hungarian and are organized in two parts. Part I contains material received by the Library between 1962 and 1970 and is arranged in five series: General Correspondence, Foreign Correspondence, Austen Riggs Center, Miscellaneous Correspondence, and Speeches, Writings, and Lectures File. Part II comprises an addition to the collection and is organized in four series: David Rapaport Papers, Elvira Rapaport Strasser Papers, Formerly Closed, and Closed material.
Rapaport's correspondence dates primarily from 1948 to 1960 during his years at the Austen Riggs Center. It focuses on his research and writings in psychology and psychoanalysis including his development of diagnostic psychological testing and his efforts to clarify and systematize psychoanalytic theory. The General Correspondence series contains Rapaport's extensive correspondence with psychologists, psychoanalysts, and professional organizations in the United States. Correspondence with colleagues overseas is located in the Foreign Correspondence series. Prominent correspondents include Bruno Bettelheim, John C. Burnham, Sibylle K. Escalona, Hanna Fenichel, Anna Freud, Merton Max Gill, Heinz Hartmann, Lawrence S. Kubie, Karl A. Menninger, Martin Mayman, Roy Schafer, Richard F. Sterba, and Peter H. Wolff. Routine correspondence including invitations to speak and requests for reprints is filed in the Miscellaneous Correspondence series. The Austen Riggs Center series largely concerns administrative matters pertaining to committees, funding, programs, research associates, staff, and trustees.
The Speeches, Writings, and Lectures File series documents Rapaport's prolific writing career, his extensive teaching experience, and his numerous speaking engagements. Drafts of articles, books, book reviews, lectures, and speeches, transcripts of discussions, correspondence with colleagues, and research material explore his research interests in psychological diagnostic testing, ego psychology, emotions and memory, metapsychology, motivation, psychoanalytic theory, and thought processes.
Part II contains an addition to the Rapaport Papers. Included are photocopies of outgoing letters, largely dated 1950-1960, and a lengthy letter to friends describing a trip to his native Hungary in 1960. Also included are a series of dream notes made by Rapaport as part of his research on consciousness. The addition further includes two of his early psychological works published in Hungary prior to his immigration to the United States.
The bulk of Part II consists of the papers of Rapaport's wife, Elvira Rapaport Strasser, a mathematician and university professor, who resumed use of her maiden name in the early 1970s. Her papers document programs and scholarships established in her husband's name at the Austen Riggs Center and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. The bulk of her papers was closed until April 2003 and is now available in the Formerly Closed series. Among the formerly closed material is correspondence with her husband's colleagues including Merton Max Gill, exchanges with fellow mathematicians, and letters from Hungarian friends and family members. The Formerly Closed series also contains her unpublished memoirs describing her early life in Hungary, her experiences on a kibbutz in Palestine in 1933-1935, and her immigration to the United States in 1938.
Correspondence with psychologists, psychoanalysts, and professional organizations.
Correspondence with foreign psychologists and psychoanalysts.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, and printed matter concerning administrative matters.
Correspondence of a comparatively brief duration including invitations to speak and requests for reprints.
Drafts of articles, book reviews, books, lectures, and speeches, transcripts of discussions and conference proceedings, correspondence, research, and notes.
Correspondence, drafts of writings and lectures, notes on dreams, biographical material, and bibliographies.
Correspondence and printed matter.
Correspondence, legal documents, and drafts of writings.
Patient file.
The papers of Edgar Kobak span the years 1916-1966, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1949-1962, during Kobak's semi-retirement as a business consultant and communications expert in New York. The collection consists of five series: Autobiographical Interview, General Correspondence and Related Papers, Speeches and Writings, Business Papers, and Miscellany. Included are subject files of personal business affairs and miscellaneous clippings and scrapbooks. In the correspondence is an autograph file of letters from prominent individuals who wrote to Kobak during his career with McGraw-Hill, the National Broadcasting Company, and other business firms for which he was either a consultant or director.
A key feature of the collection is an autobiographical account of the years Kobak spent at McGraw-Hill Publishing Company. Also of importance is the General Correspondence of letters sent and received from notable politicians, philanthropists, and military figures, mostly from the 1950s. The main portion of the correspondence, however, deals with companies that used Kobak's consulting service and with the various advertising and philanthropic organizations with which Kobak was associated in the last fifteen years of his life. Among the most significant and substantive of these letters are those from the National Association of Broadcasters, the S & C Electric Company, and the A. C. Nielsen Company. There are also several folders of papers for the period before 1949, as for example the correspondence files for the Mutual Broadcasting System and the National Broadcasting Company. Only a small amount of Kobak's personal correspondence is present in these papers, most of it with his son, Edgar H. Kobak.
The Speeches and Writings series, which covers the years 1928-1962, offers perhaps the best representation of Kobak's work in broadcasting. In them can be found material relating to the first generation of radio and television, to Kobak's expertise in public relations, and to federal policy concerning communications. A smaller and less significant part of the collection is the Business Papers file. It is devoted exclusively to Kobak's private business ventures with a farm and radio station in Thomson, Georgia.
Correspondents in addition to those cited include John Conrad, Nicholas J. Conrad, George Vernon Denny, Edward J. Mehren, and A. C. Nielsen. The autograph file contains brief notes, usually thank-you letters, from individuals such as John F. Kennedy, Adlai Stevenson (1900-1964), Harry S. Truman, Lucius D. Clay, and Tom Clark.
Autobiographical document primarily covering Kobak's years at McGraw-Hill Publishing Co.
Letters sent or received by Edgar Kobak, including interoffice memoranda, public relations publications, and a few speeches, articles, and clippings.
Reprints, clippings, typescripts, and near-print duplications of Kobak's articles, speeches, and public statements, including notes for speeches and a transcript of a discussion.
Correspondence and miscellaneous business papers.
Scrapbooks, clippings, experience records, sketches of Kobak, memorabilia, fragments, miscellaneous tributes, and photographs.
The papers of the Lee-Palfrey families span the years 1780-1932, with the bulk of the material from 1800 to 1860. The collection consists of correspondence, diaries, journals, clippings, maps, photographs, and other papers of William Lee (1772-1840) of Boston, Massachusetts, Washington, D.C., and France and members of his family. Of particular interest are Lee's diaries and letters detailing his experiences as a commercial agent and secretary to the United States Legation in France.
Included in the collection are papers of Lee's wife, Susan Palfrey Lee (1767-1822), relating to family matters and social life in France and Washington, D.C.; papers of his daughters, Susan Palfrey Lee (1795-1853) and Mary Elizabeth Lee, Baroness de Maltitz (1799-1852), and his son William Barlow Lee (1805-1895). A journal of William Barlow Lee's son, William Lee, a Washington, D.C., physician and teacher (1841-1893) relates to a topographical mission to Utah in 1857-1858 in which he served as an assistant to J. H. Simpson in surveying a wagon route from Camp Floyd to Salt Lake City. Included are photographs from the mission.
The papers of Nicholas Low (1739-1826) span the years 1773-1897, with the bulk of the material from 1784 to 1828. The collection consists largely of financial papers and correspondence and includes family and business correspondence of Low & Wallace, New York, New York, ship records, legal records, accounts of voyages to Asia, Europe, and South America, and printed matter. Included are correspondence with foreign merchants, letters from Low’s brother, Isaac Low (1735-1791), and his nephew, Isaac Low (commissary-general, British army), dealing with trade conditions, Loyalist matters, progress of British-American relations, and the proceedings for recovery of property seized from Isaac Low during the Revolution. Correspondence of Mordecai Lewis & Company, merchants of Philadelphia, relates in part to events in Congress during the first session following the adoption of the Constitution. The collection also includes papers relating to Low’s lands in Kentucky, Ohio, and New York; the founding of Ballston Spa and Lowville, New York; the Society for Establishing Useful Manufactures; and other matters relating to life in New York. Prominent as well is material relating to commercial contacts abroad, mainly in Britain, Ireland, and the European continent, with connections also in Argentina, Canada, China, India, Mexico, the West Indies, and Uruguay.
The papers of Lillian Diana Gish (1893-1993) span the years 1829-1978 with the bulk of the material dating from 1920 to 1969. They are arranged into the following series: General Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article, and Drama File; Miscellany; Additions; and Artifacts.
Lillian Gish was a silent film star whose acting career on stage, in motion pictures, and on television spanned more that eighty years. The bulk of the Gish Papers consists of scripts of plays, movie and television scenarios, and synopses of silent films that are part of the Speech, Article, and Drama File, but the majority of these are works in which Gish did not perform. However, there are scripts, a few of which are annotated, of productions in which she did appear, including the plays All the Way Home, Anya, I Never Sang for My Father, Nine Pine Street, Portrait of a Madonna, The Star-Wagon, and Uncle Vanya; the movie The Night of the Hunter; and the television production of Arsenic and Old Lace.
Included in the Subject File are papers pertaining to Gish's involvement with groups and organizations such as the America First Committee and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
Miscellany includes financial papers, interviews, printed matter about Gish that includes material about her younger sister, the actress Dorothy Gish, scrapbook pages featuring printed portraits of Gish in the silent film era, as well as a holograph testimonial written by the author Eugene O'Neill to his wife Carlotta.
An Additions series is comprised of material added to the papers after 1980. Addition I consists of correspondence and legal papers involving lawsuits brought against Gish by producer Charles Duell in the 1920s. Addition II is a typed letter signed by Gish in which she provides answers to two questions about actors and acting.
Letters received by Gish.
Correspondence, printed matter, and other papers.
Scripts, speeches, articles.
Financial papers, interviews, music, printed matter, scrapbook pages, and other papers.
A legal file of correspondence, briefs, affidavits, and related documents in the case of Duell v. Gish, and one letter.
Invitation.
The papers of Anita Newcomb McGee (1864-1932) span the years 1688-1932, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1869-1932. They consist of correspondence, drafts of articles, diaries, notebooks, scientific and medical notes, news clippings, photographs and memorabilia, with some photostatic material. The collection is organized by type of material.
An “Idea Book” contains McGee's writings on subjects such as “Happiness” and “Use of imagination in science.” A considerable amount of the correspondence is with family, especially her father, Simon Newcomb, mathematician and astronomer, and her son, Eric Newcomb McGee, who changed his name to Eric McGee Newcomb. Included are holograph copies of lectures and articles on hygiene and medical matters. There are also articles derived from McGee's studies of communist societies in the United States such as the Shakers, and the Bethel and Oneida communities. A segment of the collection relates to the formation of the Women's Anthropological Society of America, and there are letters written while McGee was acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, in the Spanish-American War.
Principal correspondents in addition to those mentioned include Gifford Pinchot, Charles Benedict Davenport, Alcander Longley, and Edward Singleton Holden.
Included in the collection is the family correspondence, 1836-1846, of McGee's grandfather, Charles A. Hassler, a surgeon in the United States Navy, containing a letter from James Madison, 1832.
The papers of Samuel Whittemore Boggs (1889-1954) span the years 1912-1954. Consisting of correspondence, drafts of articles, notes, maps, printed matter, and clippings, the collection focuses on Boggs's diverse geographical interests. Included are files of geographic data on various regions of the world, reports of missionary activity, material relating to Boggs's mapping inventions, files for proposed studies, and preparatory materials for his lectures, speeches, and publications. The collection is organized into seven series: Correspondence, Professional File, Writings File, Lectures, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
Topics of significance include boundary delimitation, regionalism, global relations, and water boundaries. Featured are Boggs's pioneering work as inventor of an eumorphic equal-area map projection, graphic traffic signals, and a universal graphic charting instrument. Also in the papers are notes on courses given at Columbia University.
Boggs's filing system was retained in parts of the collection, including a "Regions of the World" section in the Subject File series. A guide to the section is in the first folder of the material.
Special correspondence of letters to and from Boggs as geographer with the State Department and general correspondence.
Material related to professional projects during the various phases of Boggs's career.
Articles, books, and speeches.
Course notes of lecture series given at Columbia University.
Subject files related to professional interests, but of an avocational nature.
Charts and maps, photographs, biographical material, printed matter, and notes.
Charts and maps.
The papers of Edward Tracy Clark (1878-1935) cover his political and business activities during the years between 1923 and 1935, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1929-1935. When Coolidge came to Washington, D.C., as vice president, Clark, a fellow alumnus of Amherst College, accompanied him as his secretary. Tracy remained in his secretarial position in the White House until 1929 when Coolidge chose not to run for reelection. The collection includes Clark's personal papers for a few years after he left the political world and entered business, as well as speeches of Calvin Coolidge.
The Clark correspondence is most numerous for the years following 1929, when he served as a consultant on legislative, customs, and tariff matters for various business concerns. His activities as the president's secretary are reflected in Coolidge's letters to Clark and in carbon copies of his replies on a variety of subjects, including the Permanent Court of International Justice, Massachusetts politics, patronage, the McNary-Haugen Farm Bill, Mexican confiscation, and also tickets to Army-Navy football games, class reunions at Amherst College, and shirts for the president.
The correspondence contains numerous letters to Clark from Coolidge written after he left the White House. There are also letters from Coolidge's wife, Grace Goodhue Coolidge, and his sons, John Coolidge and Calvin Coolidge (1908-1924). Other correspondents include Bruce Barton, William M. Butler, Chauncey M. Depew, William J. Donovan, Alfred M. Landon, David Lawrence, Louis Liggett, Henry Cabot Lodge (1850-1924), Andrew W. Mellon, Ogden Livingston Mills, Dwight W. Morrow, David I. Walsh, and Roy Owen West.
The papers of Duncan McArthur (1772-1839) span the years 1783-1848 and consist of correspondence, land survey notes, plats, tax returns, and other documents on land holdings in and near the Scioto River Valley in Ohio; account books, orderly book of the United States 19th Infantry Regiment during the War of 1812, and printed matter. With the correspondence are army returns, reports, and general orders for the years 1814-1815 while McArthur was in command of the United States Army Department of the Northwest. Other papers relate to the period of his congressional service, 1823-1825. The collection also includes papers stemming from McArthur's daughters.
The papers of Frank Knox (1877-1944) span the years 1898-1954. The collection consists mainly of family and special correspondence, some general correspondence, Knox's speeches and writings, correspondence and speeches of his wife, Annie Reid Knox, and a clippings file. Additional papers donated by Annie Reid Knox document the establishment of the Frank Knox Memorial Fellowship at Harvard University. The Knox Papers are strongest for his role in politics and government service; they contain little material relating to his career as a publisher. The collection is organized into eight series: Diaries, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Special Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Annie Reid Knox File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Family Correspondence reflects Knox's service as a private in the Rough Riders regiment in the Spanish-American War and his World War I service as an artillery officer. The letters to his wife in the 1930s and 1940s provide insights into the development of his public career. A Special Correspondence file of letters with Theodore Roosevelt documents Knox's support of Roosevelt's political ambitions from 1911 through 1918.
The General Correspondence extends from 1917 through 1944, but the bulk of the material covers Knox's service as secretary of the navy. This series includes letters with many prominent public figures such as Calvin Coolidge, Henry Ford, James Forrestal, Felix Frankfurter, Cordell Hull, Chiang Kai-shek, Harold L. Ickes, Walter Lippmann, George Marshall, John Adam Muehling, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Arthur H. Vandenberg, William Allen White, Wendell Willkie.
Knox's Speeches and Writings cover the major addresses he delivered from the late 1930s through his tenure as secretary of the navy. The writings include a series of editorials he wrote from 1934 to 1940 while he was publisher and editor of the Chicago Daily News. The clippings file contains rather extensive coverage of Knox's campaign as Republican vice-presidential candidate in 1936.
Secretary of the navy logbook, desk calendar for 1943, record book of lunches and dinners, calendar of Knox's life compiled by Annie Reid Knox, and incomplete diary.
Correspondence with parents and with Annie Reid Knox.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence with John Adam Muehling and Theodore Roosevelt.
Texts of most speeches delivered by Knox between 1934 and 1944 and writings.
Letters sent and received by Annie Reid Knox.
Memorabilia, miscellaneous business records, passport papers, writings about Knox, clippings, and scrapbooks.
Oversize scrapbooks.
The papers of Robert Gerald Spivack (1915-1970) span the years 1931-1970, with the bulk of the material dating between 1936 and 1970. Spivack was a reporter who covered news, politics, and organized crime in New York for the New York Post in the 1940s and 1950s, and who later covered national politics in Washington, D. C. In the 1950s and 1960s he was a syndicated columnist and newsletter publisher on national politics. The papers consist of five series: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The General Correspondence consists of letters and memoranda exchanged between Spivack and friends, colleagues, literary agents, public figures, and readers of his articles, columns, and newsletters. Included are memoranda to and from editors and colleagues at the New York Post, Paul Sann and James A. Wechsler among others, and with the owner of the Post, Dorothy Schiff. Other correspondents include Herbert Agar, Wilbur E. Bade, Ulric Bell, George T. Bye, Elliott E. Cohen, Louis G. Cowan, Fern Marja Eckman, Lloyd D. Hagan, Joseph P. Lash, Reuben A. Lazarus, Newbold Morris, Herbert Nagourney, Shaemus O'Sheel, Oliver Pilat, Eleanor Roosevelt, Arthur J. Rosenthal, John Herman Henry Sengstacke, Eric Sevareid, Abraham M. Sirkin, Martin Sommers, Mark Starr, and Rex Stout.
The Speeches and Writings include articles, book projects, columns, interviews, memoranda for the record, newsletters, and newspapers, written or edited by Spivack or by others. The series includes a comprehensive file of Spivack's articles for the New York Post between 1941 and 1961, the entire span of his career with the paper. Subjects included New York Governor Thomas E. Dewey and unsuccessful mayoral candidates Jonah J. Goldstein and Newbold Morris. One of Spivack's themes was the nexus of New York politics and organized crime, notably during the administration of Mayor William O'Dwyer. When Spivack was the Post's Washington correspondent from 1952 to 1961, he covered the Dwight D. Eisenhower administration and figures from that era such as Senators Owen Brewster, Irvin McNeil Ives, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Joseph McCarthy.
Speeches and Writings include Spivack's book projects relating to Thomas E. Dewey, underworld figure Frank Costello, Lyndon B. Johnson's administration, and Congressman Franklin D. Roosevelt (1914-1988).
Spivack's columns documented in the papers include In the Town's Backrooms, which covered politics on the New York and national levels, and his syndicated product Watch on the Potomac treating national politics from 1956 to 1970. The series includes examples of the University of Cincinnati newspaper that Spivack edited as a student, Cincinnati Bearcat, and of his newsletters on national politics, Private Wire and Spivack Report.
The Subject File includes files relating to Spivack's late 1960s initiative, Reporters' News Syndicate, a program designed to give minority candidates practical training in journalism, and to Spivack's activism beginning in the 1930s with student and other groups advocating for war refugees and occupied peoples, against American isolationism, and in favor of United States participation in World War II. Spivack was editor of SOS, the newspaper of the Student Defenders of Democracy, and there are several examples of the newspaper in that organization's file. During 1937-1938 he served as secretary of the International Student Service and from 1940 to 1941 as publications director of Fight for Freedom. There is material on these and other interventionist organizations in two oversize scrapbooks relating to the World War II era.
Correspondence with friends, editors, newspaper owners, colleagues, public figures, and readers of his articles, columns, and newsletters.
Articles, columns, book projects, newsletters, newspapers, memoranda for the record, interviews, reporters' notes, political skits, satiric songs, speeches and miscellaneous material.
Topical files and organizational records.
Biographical material, press releases, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Two scrapbooks and a poster.
The papers of Maud Wood Park (1871-1955) detail the personal life and civic involvement of a prominent feminist and social reformer who became the first president of the National League of Women Voters. Spanning the years 1844-1979, the papers are concentrated in the period between 1886 and 1951. The early material is essentially that of Park’s father, James R. Wood, Sr. Posthumous papers contributed to the collection by Edna Lamprey Stantial in the form of correspondence, notes, and miscellany relate to such figures of the suffrage movement as Florence Ellinwood Allen, Jennie L. Barron, and Carrie Chapman Catt. The collection is organized into five series: Family Papers, Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings, and Miscellany.
The bulk of the family material consists of correspondence between Park and her second husband, Robert Freeman Hunter. The exchanges begin in 1886, twenty-two years prior to their marriage, and extend to Hunter’s death in 1928. Park’s role as a leading organizer in the suffrage movement required extensive travel throughout the country, and Hunter’s career in the theater made him equally nomadic. Students of women’s history will find this correspondence particularly useful, for it contains remarks by Park on tactics, strategy, and the ideology of reform. Furthermore, the differences as well as the distances that separated Park and Hunter lend a special character to these exchanges as sources for exploring the evolution of the women’s movement. The correspondence with her husband was particularly important to Park. She considered publishing it, and much of the material is represented only in the form of transcripts. For a quarter century following Hunter’s death, she continued to write him anniversary letters on the occasion of their marriage, birthdays, and New Year’s day.
Other family correspondence supplements these themes in helpful ways, such as a revealing analysis of Park’s personality in the Hunter file that he prepared for a mutual friend, Helen Maria Biscoe. The Family Papers also include Park’s correspondence with her first husband, Charles Edward Park; the Civil War memoirs of her father, James R. Wood, Sr., a Union scout during the war; and miscellaneous Hunter and Wood family material.
The Correspondence file, particularly the special correspondence with such individuals as Florence Ellinwood Allen, Helen Maria Biscoe, Alice Stone Blackwell, Carrie Chapman Catt, Inez Haynes Gillmore, Mary H. Page, Mary Gray Peck, Pauline A. Shaw, Belle Sherwin, Ann Webster, and Mabel Caldwell Willard, documents personal friendships between Park and many of the women involved in the suffrage movement. Many of these correspondents are also represented in the Subject File because of their contributions to the various organizations and events of the period. Included also in the Subject File is information relating to Park’s lecture tours for the Boston Equal Suffrage Association for Good Government (Boston League of Women Voters), as well as papers and material relating to the activities of the Congressional Committee of the National American Woman Suffrage Association and legislative activities of the National League of Women Voters, 1922-1925.
The preservation of the papers of the woman’s suffrage movement was very important to Maud Park, and she devoted considerable energy during her retirement to securing the documentary legacy of the suffrage movement and creating conditions to sustain scholarship. Radcliffe College was at the center of her efforts and the papers illuminate her contributions to the development of the Woman’s Rights Collection and her work in establishing a series of fellowships to permit younger scholars to study there. In addition, there are materials on the development of manuscript holdings in woman’s history at the Library of Congress and elsewhere. Of special importance is her correspondence with W. K. Jordan and Edna Lamprey Stantial, as well as Stantial’s correspondence relating to the presentation of records and papers.
After retiring from an active role on the national level with the National League of Women Voters, Maud Park returned to Maine and wrote several plays and novels. Only a small representation of her literary work is present in this collection. Typescripts of the unpublished novel “Lisa” and the published play Play Stone, with correspondence, publicity folio, and some technical information relating to the production of the play by the Federal Theater Project in 1939, are a part of the writings file.
Edna Stantial indicates in her notes accompanying the collection that for a number of years Park carefully reviewed her personal papers, because her ultimate plans were to write an autobiography. Her efforts toward this goal are autobiographical notes that cover the various phases of her life from pre-school days to approximately 1946.
The Park papers conclude with an autograph collection containing letters and autographs of many prominent political, social, and literary figures of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, including Louisa May Alcott, Clara Barton, Louis Dembitz Brandeis, William Cullen Bryant, Frederick Douglass, Robert Frost, William Lloyd Garrison, Jeannette Rankin, Harriet Beecher Stowe, and Booker T. Washington.
Correspondence between Park and second husband, Robert Freeman Hunter, as well as other members of the Wood and Hunter families. Miscellaneous writings, personal papers, and clippings concerning family members.
Letters received and copies of letters sent to friends and colleagues.
Correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clippings, notes, printed materials, and reports.
Handwritten and typewritten drafts, copies of speeches, writings, and plays, notes, correspondence relating to plays and novels written by Park, miscellaneous poems written by Park, and writings of others.
Autobiographical notes, biographical notes, clippings, printed matter, legal documents, pamphlets, miscellaneous fragments and autograph collection.
The papers of Alton Brooks Parker (1852-1926) span the years 1878-1937, with the bulk of the material from 1904 to 1926. The collection consists of correspondence, speeches, scrapbooks, clippings, printed matter, photographs, invitations, legal opinions, financial records, and autobiographical and biographical material. The papers are organized into seven series: General Correspondence, Speech File, Autobiographical and Biographical File, Miscellany, Scrapbooks, Clippings, and Printed Matter.
The principal subjects are the presidential election of 1904 in which Parker ran as the candidate of the Democratic Party and his work from 1920 to 1926 with legal, civic, and philanthropic organizations. Material relating to the 1904 election is chiefly in the Scrapbooks and Speech File series. The General Correspondence series includes New York state and county Democratic committee correspondence for 1904.
General Correspondence between 1919 and 1926 features Parker's committee work, organizational connections, and family matters. He was an active member of the Sulgrave Institution of the United States and of the British Commonwealth, National Civic Federation, New York State Bar Association, American Bar Association, Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation Inc., Lawyers' Club (New York, N.Y.), English Speaking Union of the United States, Board of Trustees of the Albany Law School, Charity Organization Society of the City of New York Committee on Criminal Courts, Committee for Armenian Independence, and National Council of Religion in Higher Education.
Correspondents include Josephus Daniels, Ralph M. Easly, Rufus Wheeler Peckham, and William H. Taft.
Letters sent and received.
Bound and unbound manuscript and printed copies of speeches.
Typescript of an unpublished memoir by Parker and reminiscences by his daughter, with miscellaneous memoranda and notes.
Invitations, legal documents, photographs, financial records, various committee reports, “Gold Telegram” of 1904, and other miscellany.
Newspaper clippings mounted in bound volumes.
Newspaper clippings.
Pamphlets, reprints of articles, and miscellaneous printed matter.
The papers of James Alexander Robertson (1873-1939) extend from 1816 through 1939, with the bulk of the material dated 1898-1939. The major portion of the papers focuses on Robertson's career as editor, bibliographer, librarian, and educator, a professional life that spanned the first four decades of the twentieth century and was devoted to the study of Hispanic America, Florida, and the Philippines. The collection is organized into six series: Diaries, Correspondence, Subject File, Writings File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
The Correspondence series constitutes the bulk of the collection and is divided into three subseries: Family, Special, and General. Some correspondence is in Spanish and French. The Writings File includes translations and editorial notes by Robertson as well as his poems and miscellaneous writings. Included in the papers are two manuscripts pertaining to Americans in Latin America, 1835 and 1845.
Robertson's letters to his wife, Cora Halsey Robertson, began in 1910, two years prior to their marriage and continued to 1938. The Family Correspondence also includes exchanges with his children and relatives. This correspondence is particularly revealing for his work on the Philippines from 1910 to 1915, and it gives a daily account of his private and family life. Much of the correspondence dated 1939 relates to his illness and death.
Robertson's contribution as compiler and coeditor of the fifty-five volumes of The Philippine Islands, 1493-1803 is described in the Special Correspondence from his collaborator, Emma Helen Blair. This correspondence also gives an account of his travels to Spain, Portugal, Italy, and France from 1902 to 1907. Other Special Correspondents include Carroll T. Bond, James A. LeRoy, and Mabel P. LeRoy. Letters to and from Bond relate to Robertson's appointment as archivist for the State of Maryland. The LeRoy correspondence concerns research and translations for The Philippine Islands project.
The General Correspondence dates from 1898 to 1939 and covers Robertson's professional activities in an uninterrupted sequence. It includes copies or carbons of Robertson's outgoing letters, memoranda, notes, and telegrams. From 1898 to 1900 the letters refer to The Jesuit Relations project. In addition to the material of Emma Helen Blair in the Subject File series, much of the General Correspondence file from 1900 to 1907 includes Blair-Robertson correspondence. Although the letters and other manuscript materials relating to the Hispanic American Historical Review (1916-1918) are a part of the Subject File, correspondence for the years 1920-1939 in the General Correspondence also concerns HAHR matters. This is especially true of letters between 1923 and 1929, the period in which Robertson served as managing editor of the journal. Letters relating to the activities of the Florida State Historical Society and Robertson's duties as executive secretary of that organization and as general editor of its publications date from March 1923 to 1932. Specific business letters, reports, and minutes of the society are a part of the Subject File.
The Subject File details the founding of the Hispanic American Historical Review. Documents and correspondence in the American Historical Association and Hispanic American Historical Review files refer to this phase of the journal's history. Most of the research and duplication of Spanish manuscripts relating to the history of Florida in the archives of Spain was the work of Irene Aloha Wright. In a file for Wright are letters and financial records relating to her work.
Of special interest in the Miscellany series are the writings of Robertson's colleagues and the reproduction of Cabeca de Vaca's Relacion de la Florida (Zamora, 1542).
Diaries and journals kept by Robertson.
Letters sent and received between family members, including with Robertson's wife, Cora Halsey Robertson, and children.
Letters from Emma Helen Blair to Robertson concerning his early research and publishing ventures. Includes letters to and from Carroll T. Bond and James A. LeRoy and Mabel LeRoy and letters relating to Robertson's tenure and activities in the Philippines.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, and miscellaneous attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, reports, notes, manuscripts, and financial statements.
Transcripts, typescripts, and handwritten copies of lectures, draft copies of articles, books, manuscripts, and miscellaneous writings.
Cards, clippings, printed matter, and writings by others.
Certificates, awards, and memorabilia.
The papers of Edmund Bailey O'Callaghan (1797-1830), span the years 1830-1876, with the bulk of the material falling between 1845 and 1860. The papers consist of correspondence, a partial draft of O'Callaghan's History of New Netherland, lists, records, and bibliographical material.
O'Callaghan's diversified career as historian, bibliographer, legislator, physician, and journalist is only partially documented by this collection. After emigrating from Ireland in 1823, O'Callaghan became prominent in Canadian politics and was associated with the revolutionary party. At the same time he was active in the founding of the Society of the Friends of Ireland and was editor of the Montreal Vindicator. His political career in Canada reached its zenith when, in 1835, he was elected to the assembly of Upper Canada. His political career, however, was cut short by his participation in the Insurrection of 1837. With a reward offered for his capture, O'Callaghan found it expedient to flee to the United States. The Canadian phase of O'Callaghan's career is survived by only one document, but there are references to his activities in Canada in later correspondence, particularly with William Lyon MacKenzie.
O'Callaghan's first years in the United States were taken up with the practice of medicine and with editing the Northern Light, an industrial journal. Apparently in connection with the latter occupation, O'Callaghan had reason to examine the state records of New York. Finding a wealth of material among them, O'Callaghan embarked upon a new career as historian and bibliographer. In 1846 he published the first volume of his History of New Netherland. Despite financial losses on that volume, he came out with a second in 1849. The draft of volume two (books 4-6 and appendices) is present in his papers, as well as related correspondence.
As a result of this work O'Callaghan was commissioned to edit the Documentary History of the State of New York. A voluminous amount of correspondence concerning the collection of historical material on New York is contained in the collection. Additional correspondence deals with other bibliographic matters, with Americana rarities, editions of the Bible, and O'Callaghan's duties in the office of the secretary of state of New York.
Prominent correspondents include Solomon Alofsen, Edward G. Allen, Edward Armstrong, George Bancroft, Elizabeth T. Porter Beach, Theodric Romeyn Beck, John Romeyn Brodhead, John Carter Brown (1797-1874), Charles Deane, Samuel Gardner Drake, Lyman Copeland Draper, Thomas Ewbank, Édouard Raymond Fabre, Hector Fabre, F.-X. Garneau, William Gowans, Thaddeus William Harris, Samuel F. Haven, Charles J. Hoadly, James Lenox, George Livermore, William Lyons MacKenzie, Benj. N. Martin, Gregory Henry Moore, Henry Cruse Murphy, Francis Parkman, Louis Joseph Papineau, Louis Perrault, Charles Benjamin Richardson, John Gilmary Shea, Alpheus Todd, D. T. Valentine, Townsend Ward, and William A. Whitehead.
The papers of Lawrence E. Glendenin (1918-2008) span the years 1935-2009, with the bulk concentrated in the period 1945-1975. The papers consist of correspondence, writings, subject files, and printed matter. The collection contains material on the Bikini Scientific Resurvey, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and Glendenin and Jacob A. Marinsky's discovery of Promethium, the 61st element on the periodic table. The collection also contains material on the Oak Ridge petition written by Oak Ridge scientists in 1945 following review and debate of a petition by Leo Szilard calling for President Harry S. Truman to describe and demonstrate the atomic bomb's power and then offer Japan the opportunity to surrender. The collection includes the Smyth report, an administrative history of the Manhattan Project by physicist Henry DeWolf Smyth. The report was published on August 12, 1945, under its official name, A General Account of the Development of Methods of Using Atomic Energy for Military Purposes.
The correspondence of Eliakim Littell (1797-1870) spans the years 1819-1869, with the bulk of the material dating from 1825 to 1852. The collection details Littell's work as publisher of Museum of Foreign Literature and Science and Littell's Living Age, Littell's interest in establishing public institutions for higher learning, as well as invitations, thank-you notes, and recommendations. Notable correspondents include James Buchanan, John C. Calhoun, DeWitt Clinton, Andrew Jackson, William Hickling Prescott, and Thomas Jefferson.
Ronald Harmon Brown (1941-1996) was a lawyer and Democratic Party operative who managed presidential campaigns for Edward Kennedy and Jesse Jackson and served as chairman of the Democratic National Committee. These papers relate entirely to Brown’s term as United States secretary of commerce during the Clinton administration. The papers span 1992-1996, ending when he died in a plane crash while on a mission to Croatia. They treat Brown’s death and legacy as well as his efforts to expand American exports and work with agencies such as the National Information Infrastructure, National Institute of Standards and Technology Programs, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Featured also are congressional relations including legislation to dismantle the Department of Commerce and his trips and missions in the United States and to foreign countries.
The papers of George von Lengerke Meyer (1858-1918) span the years 1900-1917 and consist of diaries, family correspondence, and memorabilia. The diaries record social and family life and the national and international events of which he was a part, including references to the negotiations leading to peace after the Russo-Japanese War and reports of conversations, 1907-1909, with Theodore Roosevelt, J. J. Jusserand, Henry Cabot Lodge, Elihu Root, and others. Additional subjects include the Post Office Department, summaries of cabinet meeting, and the Republican Party
The papers of Francis LeJau Parker (1873-1966) span the years 1905-1935 and consist mainly of official material gathered in connection with his duties during World War I and as a member of special missions to Latin America, especially in the Tacna-Arica dispute in 1926 between Chile and Peru and in the Nicaraguan elections of 1928. Much of the material is printed or mimeographed and often includes maps and handwritten notes. The collection is organized by subject and therein by topic or type of material. An addition is focused largely on files relating to Mexico and the Philippines and some general correspondence and miscellaneous reports and memoranda.
The collection contains reports by Parker made while on duty with the Romanian and Russian armies in 1916 and 1917 and estimates by him of Russia’s political future. The collection also contains staff lectures on battles and campaigns of the war. Other material includes accounts of a disputed plebiscite in the Tacna-Arica area in 1926, and voluminous notes, drafts, and reports of American supervision of the presidential elections in Nicaragua in 1928. Parker was vice chairman of the election board. Still other material pertains to American assistance to Puerto Rico during a hurricane of 1929. Parker’s tour as chief of the United States Bureau of Insular Affairs from 1929-1933 is reflected on files relating to the Philippines. An addition contains more material on the Philippines and also a monograph and others items pertaining to Mexico.
The collection of Ernest Cushing Richardson (1860-1939), a professor, bibliographer, theologian, and collector of rare material, spans the years 1179-1825 and consists of correspondence, legal notes, dictionaries of ecclesiastical and civil law, land records, genealogical material, financial records, pamphlets, printed material, and other manuscripts relating mainly to France and Italy. Subjects include law, medicine, and religion, mostly in French, with some Latin, Italian, and German.
The papers of the Montgomery family record the activities of five generations of the family and also include two smaller groups of papers belonging to the Peck and Perkins families that were merged with the Montgomery family by the marriage of George Redington Montgomery to Helen M. Perkins in 1907. The collection spans the years 1771-1974, with the bulk of the material from 1858 to 1974, and is organized into three series: Peck Family Papers, Perkins Family Papers, and Montgomery Family Papers. Included are correspondence, speeches and writings, financial papers, newspaper clippings, a large assemblage of miscellany, and a special segment of correspondence and papers relating to the work of the Inter-allied Commission on Mandates in Turkey (King-Crane Commission) after World War I and the Armenia-America Society.
The Peck Family Papers are primarily those of Frank Henry Peck, a maternal cousin of Helen Perkins Montgomery. Although the Peck Family Papers cover the years 1771-1946, most are concentrated within the period 1856-1864 and consist of correspondence between Frank Peck and his mother and brother. The letters written between 1856 and 1857 are concerned with his first job as a teacher following his graduation from Yale University. The first of the Civil War letters, written in the spring of 1862 after he had joined the 12th Connecticut Infantry Regiment, reflect the anxiety and trepidation that the new recruit felt in anticipation of his first encounter with the enemy. Later letters contain accounts of troop activities and reconnoitering expeditions, and the letters of April 19 and 30 and May 4, 1862, describe in detail the bombardment of Fort Jackson and Fort Saint Philip, and finally, the capitulation of the city of New Orleans. Some of the letters written during this period are good sources for impressions and accounts of the military occupation of New Orleans.
The Perkins Family Papers span the years 1832-1953, but the nucleus of the series is the Civil War correspondence of Newton William Perkins written between 1861 and 1866. Perkins, the father of Helen Perkins Montgomery, was a colonel and later brevet major with the 13th Connecticut Infantry Regiment. His letters, written from on board various ships and from different camps, trace the movement of his regiment from Connecticut to New Orleans and back to Washington, D.C., and Virginia as changes were made in the strategy of the war. The letters also recount his daily duties and experiences and describe the general hardships endured by the soldiers. Some regimental muster rolls and papers from his service as provost marshal are included in the collection.
The series of Montgomery Family Papers extend from 1858 to 1974 and are centered around George Redington Montgomery and Marshall Hugh Montgomery. The closeness that existed between the members of the family is reflected in family correspondence forming about one third of the series. The letters generally relate to family matters, but also touch on other areas. Emily Redington Montgomery's letters to her children are significant for their glimpses of Turkey during the awakening of national consciousness among the countries of the Ottoman Empire. They contain references to the treatment of non-Muslims, mention uprisings in various towns, and provide insight into the difficulties of operating a Christian mission school in Turkey during the reign of Abdul-Hamid II, Sultan of the Turks. George Redington Montgomery's letters to his family during 1918-1919 report his observations on America's participation in the Paris Peace Conference after World War I and comment on the attitudes and objectives of the Allied Powers at the conference.
The bulk of the general correspondence in the Montgomery Family Papers series consists of letters received and a few copies of letters sent by George Redington Montgomery; Mary Borglum (daughter of Giles Foster Montgomery and Emily Redington Montgomery) and her husband, Gutzon Borglum; and Marshall Hugh Montgomery. Those of George Montgomery relate to the development of his career and to his church activities. Correspondents include James Trowbridge, Robert Lansing, John L. Franklin, Ernest Gallaudet Draper, Eugene Meyer, Homer S. Cummings, and Henry Cabot Lodge (1850-1924). Most of Mary's letters are to and from friends, although some of the later ones pertain to her financial problems. The letters of Marshall are a commentary on his standing in the community. They show his support of community and public service projects, his participation in local government, and his interest in local history.
The business papers in the Montgomery Family Papers contain correspondence and printed matter covering the thirty years Marshall Hugh Montgomery served as a dealer in securities on Wall Street where he pioneered the use of repurchase agreements. For the most part, the papers contain little information on specific financial dealings. Those representing his years with D. W. Rich & Company are mainly letters exchanged with members of the firm while he was on military leave during the World War II. The letters kept him abreast of developments in the office and up to date on his financial interests in the company. The papers accumulated during his years with Aubrey G. Langston & Company are more typical of the kinds of activities and duties he performed with the company. There are telex messages, internal correspondence, notices of meetings of financial associations, lists of banks and corporations for which Aubrey G. Langston & Company purchased securities, and drafts of business letters, including two that explain how repurchase agreements worked.
The subject files in the Montgomery Family Papers relate to Turkey. In May 1919 George Rediington Montgomery was authorized to accompany Henry Churchill King and Charles Richard Crane on a trip to Turkey to study political and economic conditions and to ascertain the views of the people regarding the settlement of the Near Eastern question. The papers of the King-Crane Commission consist primarily of the notes he took at the towns where the commission heard testimony. Some working papers used in preparing the commission's report and a copy of the report as published in the December 2, 1922, issue of Editor and Publisher are also included in the collection.
The treatment of the Armenians and other Christians was a recurring problem prior to and during the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. The question of a homeland for the Armenians arose again following the defeat of Turkey and the need to settle the situation in the Near East at the end of World War I. In 1920 the Armenia-America Society was formed to secure American support for the Armenian cause. George Redington Montgomery became its director. His collection of Armenia-America Society papers documents the activities of that organization in the United States and abroad, including the final appeal of the society to the Lausanne Conference of 1923 and the trip of George Montgomery to Russia on behalf of the Armenians.
The miscellany section of the Montgomery Family Papers contains an extensive record of the family's activities. It includes newspaper clippings about members of the family, their scholastic records, memorabilia from high school and college days, diplomas, military papers, and other personal material.
Family letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received.
Miscellaneous personal items.
Family letters sent and received.
Letters sent and received.
Account book, bills and receipts, and financial diaries.
Birth certificates, clippings, and military papers.
Diaries of family members.
Family letters sent and received.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Business correspondence and printed matter.
Speeches, book reviews, typescripts and printed copies of articles, newspaper columns and editorials, poems, and sermons.
Bankbooks, bills and receipts, canceled checks, income tax records, insurance policies, and mortgages and other property records.
Correspondence, notes, and memoranda.
Birth certificates, biographical and genealogical notes, military papers, school records and papers, drawings, greeting cards, invitations, printed matter, and souvenir programs and other memorabilia.
The papers of Roland Sletor Morris (1874-1945) span the years 1910-1943. The collection contains correspondence, telegrams, memoranda, intelligence reports, speeches, newspaper clippings, photographs, and other papers relating primarily to Morris's service as ambassador to Japan (1917-1921) and to his special missions to Siberia (1918-1919). Included are typewritten copies of a translation of a diary of a Japanese mission to the United States (1860) and official telegrams exchanged with Secretary of State Robert Lansing, as well as material pertaining to the Allied intervenion in Siberia, 1918-1920. Also in the collection are papers pertaining to Morris's work as a professor of international law at the University of Pennsylvania. Correspondents include William Jennings Bryan, Robert Lansing, Breckinridge Long, Vance McCormick, Leo S. Rowe, and Woodrow Wilson.
The correspondence of Whiting Griswold (1814-1874) consists of letters addressed to him over the period 1843-1874. As a prominent lawyer in western Massachusetts and an active politician, Griswold’s advice and counsel were sought by prominent figures from all over the state. This correspondence bulks largest for the 1850s and 1860s and is concerned chiefly with politics on the local, state, and national levels. The disruption of parties in the 1850s is well documented, particularly with regard to the decline of the Whigs and the rise of the Free Soil and American (or Know Nothing) parties, as viewed from the vantage point of the Democratic Party. Other subjects include legal questions, patronage, the Hoosac Tunnel in Massachusetts, the Kansas-Nebraska Bill, the Civil War, and the Massachusetts Constitutional Convention of 1853. Among the principal correspondents are Nathaniel Prentiss Banks, George S. Boutwell, Benjamin F. Butler, Caleb Cushing, Benjamin Franklin Hallett (1797-1862), George Frisbie Hoar, George B. Loring, Wendell Phillips, Charles Sumner, James Lyman Whitney, and Henry Wilson.
The papers of Benjamin Orig Gerig (1894-1976) span the years 1927-1974, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1930-1968. The collection contains correspondence, reports, memoranda, printed matter, and other material documenting Gerig's service with the League of Nations, 1930-1940; the Department of State in a number of positions relating to international organizations and the administration of the trust territories, 1942-1961; and with the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations, 1947-1953. Gerig was deeply involved in preparations for the formation of the United Nations and served as an advisor to United States delegations to conferences at Dumbarton Oaks and San Francisco, 1944-1945, the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations in London, and the first session of the General Assembly in 1946. The Gerig Papers are arranged by general correspondence, speeches and writings, subject files, and classified material.
General correspondence, 1930-1974, contains personal and professional correspondence between Gerig and friends, family, and associates, predominantly those connected with the League of Nations and the State Department. Correspondents include Isaiah Bowman, Ralph J. Bunche, Andrew W. Cordier, John Foster Dulles, J. W. T. van Erp, Noel Haviland Field, Philip C. Jessup, Sean Lester, Henry Cabot Lodge, P. W. Martin, Felix M. Morley, Bertram Pickard, John D. Tomlinson, and F. P. Walters. Letters of appreciation and recommendation for Gerig were written by Warren R. Austin, Archibald MacLeish, Mike Mansfield, Leo Pasvolsky, Dean Rusk, Edward R. Stettinius, and Adlai E. Stevenson. Additional correspondence, particularly with League officials, is found in the subject file. Letters that Gerig wrote on the versos of committee reports commenting on his work on the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations in London are located in the subject file with other Preparatory Commission material.
The largest group of general correspondence is between Gerig and his first wife Mary and second wife Pearl and longtime friend and colleague Arthur Sweetser and his wife Ruth Gregory Sweetser, with whom the Gerigs shared a summer home in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. A letter from Gerig to Sweetser, dated from Geneva, January 1, 1950, comments on the Alger Hiss conviction and John Foster Dulles's testimony. Much of the correspondence was written after Gerig's retirement from the State Department in 1961. Arrangement of the general correspondence is alphabetical by name and chronological therein.
Among the speeches and writings, 1930-1969, are drafts and notes as well as published speeches and articles. The speeches include remarks given on League of Nations Day, 1939; an address on dependent peoples delivered as deputy United States representative on the United Nations Trusteeship Council, 1948; an address on the role of the United Nations in African developments, 1960; and outlines of remarks on the colonial question and the United Nations, international organizations, and sovereignty. Writings include publications by the Geneva Research Information Committee in Geneva Special Studies, 1930-1931; a statement on progress in the French Cameroons in the State Department Bulletin, 1956; and typescripts on the United States and the colonial question, 1955-1956. Arrangement is alphabetical by type of material and chronological therein.
The subject file, 1927-1969, consists of correspondence, telegrams, memoranda, reports, press releases, and printed matter dealing with Gerig's activities with the League of Nations, his work in planning for a new international organization and transferring to it League of Nations assets, and dependent area affairs and colonial policy, especially as it related to African nations, in the State Department and the United Nations Trusteeship Council. Arrangement is alphabetical by name of person or organization, topic, or type of material, and chronological therein.
Much of the material in the subject file, especially that on the origins of the United Nations, is security classified. Material in the classified portion has been arranged according to the organization of the unclassified Gerig Papers. Notices in the unclassified portion alert researchers that sensitive matter has been removed. Folder titles given in the container list for the classified segment duplicate the pertinent folder titles from the unclassified portion.
Material documenting Gerig's tenure with the League of Nations is almost exclusively connected with his assignment as commissioner-general of the pavilion at the New York World's Fair in 1939 and 1940; correspondence with League officials predominantly concerns pavilion business and arrangements for Gerig's move from Geneva to New York. The files contain documents concerning building arrangements and contracts, insurance and shipping, and correspondence regarding exhibits, including correspondence with Paul Manship concerning his sculpture for the pavilion and damage suffered during its display.
Gerig was employed by the State Department in 1943 as an expert on trusteeship and colonial questions and served as advisor to United States delegations to Dumbarton Oaks and San Francisco conferences. In 1943, he chaired a group that wrote an early draft charter for the United Nations. Numerous early drafts are found in the State Department portion of the subject file. Files of the Office of Special Political Affairs include proposals regarding a new court of international justice, considerations regarding the location of the international organization, and papers prepared and initialed by State Department consultant Quincy Wright on the legal foundations of the postwar order, representation and voting, international policing and military sanctions, and trust territories.
In 1943, Gerig served as advisor to the United States delegation to the Dumbarton Oaks conference of four "great powers;" the full United Nations Conference on International Organization at San Francisco, April-June 1945; and the Preparatory Commission of the United Nations, London, England, September-November 1945. Much of the material in the files generated at these conferences concerns the transfer of the League of Nations and its assets to the United Nations. Correspondents include Alger Hiss, director of the Office of Special Political Affairs. Gerig prepared a memorandum at Senator Arthur Vandenberg's request explaining the points at which the Dumbarton Oaks proposals were an improvement over the League of Nations Covenant in terms of security, economic and social cooperation, and general organization. San Francisco Conference documents include comments and proposed amendments concerning the Dumbarton Oaks proposals submitted by national delegations to the conference, drafts and suggested changes to article five of the chapter relative to trusteeship, and reports.
Gerig served as deputy United States representative on the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations and travelled in Africa as chairman of the United Nations Visiting Mission to Trust Territories in West Africa in 1958. Files related to West Africa contain reports and correspondence relevant to the mission and letters and writings on West Africa, especially Cameroon. Gerig was offered an ambassadorship to West Cameroon which he declined because of his wife's failing health. He was also named to delegations celebrating the independence of both Cameroon and Togo. As chief of the Division of Dependent Area Affairs, his files contain memoranda and correspondence regarding colonial policy, foreign service dispatches, and reports, speeches, publications and clippings on dependent area affairs.
Material in the United Nations file includes working papers and press releases on the operations of the mandate system under the League of Nations, on non-self-governing territories, race relations and the territories, press releases of statements by Gerig on Ruanda-Urundi (present-day Rwanda and Burundi), Cameroon, and Togo, nuclear tests in trust territories, the growth of Soviet colonialism, and Trusteeship Council verbatim records pertaining to Ruanda-Urundi, trust territories, and General Assembly resolutions. Also included are draft articles on international trusteeship, telegrams, and memoranda regarding trusteeship questions.
The subject file also includes correspondence with Felix Morley and others at Haverford College and the University of Pennsylvania concerning academic appointments, 1942, and an honorary doctorate awarded by Haverford College in 1961; a pamphlet by Jacob B. Meyer on conscientious objectors in World War I, including Gerig; and State Department personnel records, such as letters of appointment, some signed by Presidents Truman and Eisenhower, travel orders, efficiency and performance ratings, certificates, press releases, and the superior service award Gerig received in 1960. Biographical material concerns the deaths of Arthur and Ruth Sweetser as well as correspondence and material gathered by Sweetser at the time of Gerig's heart attack and Mary Gerig's death in 1961.
Some photographs, including portraits of Gerig, have been retained in the subject file. Photographs of the League of Nations, 1931, of the League of Nations Pavilion, 1939, of Trusteeship Council representatives, 1960, and of the United Nations visiting mission to West Africa in 1949 have been transferred to the Library's Prints and Photographs Division.
The papers of Constance McLaughlin Green (1897-1975) span the years 1920-1969, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period between 1953 and 1963 when Green researched and wrote her Pulitzer Prize-winning history of Washington, D.C. Published in 1962-1963 by Princeton University Press, the two-volume work, Washington, Village and Capital, 1800-1878 and Washington, Capital City, 1879-1950, was the product of a ten-year undertaking that Green completed with the aid of foundation grants and the administrative support of American University. The collection contains drafts and galleys of the work, voluminous research notes arranged according to the chronological blocks established by Green, and subject files that contain reports and correspondence pertaining to the editing and publishing of both volumes. Papers unrelated to the Washington project are limited to correspondence and to miscellaneous speeches and writings. The collection is organized into five series: Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Research File, and Oversize.
As a historian and author, Green's career ranged from teaching positions at Mount Holyoke and Smith colleges to the post of chief historian, Ordnance, Army History Division, at the Department of Defense. Most noteworthy, however, was her pioneering insistence on the significance of the city in American history. Green's portrayal of the social reality of nineteenth and twentieth century urban life in Washington, D.C., can be traced in detail in the research notes in this collection. Together with her manuscript drafts, the note cards in these papers are a supplementary guide to the social practices, economic policies, racial attitudes, and political and legal standards that prevailed in the capital during its first one hundred fifty years. Absent from the papers are the transcripts or notes of interviews Green obtained from persons who lived in Washington during the years covered by the second volume. Brief recollections of a personal nature, however, are in the correspondence folder in the subject files of the Washington history project. Among those who offered their personal reminiscences of important episodes and conditions in the history of the city were Rayford Logan, Louis Brownlow, and Ulysses Simpson Grant (1864-1953).
Other writings in the collection include her doctoral dissertation published as Holyoke, Massachusetts; A Case History of the Industrial Revolution in America (New Haven, Yale University Press, 1939.). Also in the writings are speeches on such diverse themes as “Project Vanguard” and New England's contribution to America's economic progress. Additional items include notes and drafts of journal articles; notes and related material for her published book on urban history relating to Naugatuck, Connecticut; manuscripts of encyclopedia entries on the subject of Washington, D.C.; and a book review of Morton and Lucia White's The Intellectuals Versus the City.
Correspondence on subjects other than Washington, D.C., is slight. Important exceptions are letters from Charles A. Lindbergh concerning the manuscript of a book Green coauthored with Milton Lomask entitled Vanguard; A History (Washington, D.C.: Scientific and Technical Information Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 1970) for which Lindbergh wrote an introduction, and a small group of letters relating to Green's advisory role in the publication of Notable American Women.
Correspondents include Herbert Smith Bailey, Louis Brownlow, M. D. C. Crawford, Charles B. Fahs, John Hope Franklin, Phineas Indritz, John Ihlder, Edward T. James, and David Allan Robertson.
Letters received.
Clippings, printed matter, press releases, copies and extracts of documents, notes, reports, minutes, charts, tables, correspondence, and miscellaneous near-print matter used in the Washington, D.C., history project or received as a consequence of winning the Pulitzer Prize.
Holograph, typewritten, and near-print notes and manuscripts of Green's speeches and writings. Also original, revised, amended, and annotated versions of near-print and typewritten drafts of Green's Washington, as well as corrected galleys and marked page proofs of the same work.
Note cards of research material for the writing of Washington.
District of Columbia Corporation charts.
The papers of Daniel Carter Beard (1850-1941) span the years 1798-1941, with the bulk of the material dated between 1915 and 1935. The collection consists of correspondence, diaries, family papers, speeches, articles, collected source material for writings and speeches, school composition books, address books, sketch books, illustrations, photographs, memorabilia, and printed matter relating to Beard's activities at the Culver Military Academy, Dan Beard Outdoor School, and with the Boy Scouts of America. The papers are organized into nine series: Diaries; Family Correspondence; Family Papers; General Correspondence; Special Correspondence; Subject File; Speech, Article, and Book File; Miscellany; and Oversize.
The three major phases of Beard's career as illustrator, author, and guiding spirit of the American Boy Scout movement are amply documented. Items relating to his life as an artist include numerous early sketch books and composition books containing essays and lessons prepared during his student years. Beard furnished pictures for the first illustrated editions of Samuel Langhorne Clemens's Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court and Tom Sawyer Abroad, and the papers contain his correspondence with Clemens concerning this work. There is a great deal of correspondence with Charles Dana Gibson, who served as best man at Beard's wedding. Correspondents from the art world include Gutzon Borglum, Howard Chandler Christy, Henry C. Pitz, Frederic Remington, Norman Rockwell, Frederic Dorr Steele, Lorado Taft, John Quincy Adams Ward, S. J. Woolf, and N. C. Wyeth.
Daniel Beard came from an artistic background. His father, James Henry Beard, was a well-known portrait painter among whose sitters were Henry Clay, John Quincy Adams, and Benjamin Harrison. His brother, Frank Beard, originated the once popular "chalk talks," which were lectures illustrated by the speaker with crayon sketches drawn during the course of the lecture. The Family Correspondence and Family Papers series in these papers contain many manuscripts of both Frank Beard and James Henry Beard, including a draft of the latter's autobiography.
Daniel Beard's career as an author is represented with the original manuscript of his autobiography, Hardly a Man Is Now Alive (1939), and an extensive collection of articles devoted to outdoor life that range in subject matter from the making of "Billy Bow-Leg Moccasins" to instructions for tying a "Real Sour-Dough Diamond Hitch." Most of the articles were prepared for publication in the magazine Boy's Life, to which Beard was a regular monthly contributor. There is also a great deal of correspondence with the publishing firms of J. B. Lippincott Company and Charles Scribner's Sons, which printed most of the twenty-seven books written by Beard. Among his correspondents in the field of literature are Samuel Langhorne Clemens, Hamlin Garland, Zane Grey, William Dean Howells, Edwin Markham, H. L. Mencken, Albert Bigelow Paine, Maxwell Perkins, Upton Sinclair, Hendrik Willem Van Loon, and Owen Wister.
The third and most bountiful phase of the collection concerns Beard's efforts to create and develop the Boy Scout movement in the United States. There are papers relating to Sons of Daniel Boone (renamed Boy Pioneers of America), the organization Beard established in 1905 that was a forerunner of the Boy Scouts of America. In addition to the manuscripts detailing the origin of the Boy Scouts in 1910, there is important correspondence with other leaders of the scouting movement in this country and abroad. Perhaps the most important of these are with Robert Stephenson Smyth Baden-Powell, Baron Baden-Powell of Gilwell, the British soldier who was the founder of the original Boy Scout movement in 1908; and Ernest Thompson Seton, author of the nature study Wild Animals I Have Known and organizer of yet another woodlore group, the Woodcraft Indians (1902). Among the major figures initially associated with the Boy Scout organization who are represented in these papers are George J. Fisher, Walter W. Head, Edward Sanford Martin, Augustus Post, George D. Pratt, Frank Presbrey, Isaac Sutton, Frederick Vreeland, and James E. West.
President Theodore Roosevelt's dictum regarding the strenuous life strongly appealed to Daniel Beard, and following the president's death he instituted annual pilgrimages to his grave at Oyster Bay, Long Island. The papers contain Beard's correspondence with Roosevelt, his widow, Edith Kermit Carow Roosevelt, son Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. (1887-1944), and other members of the family.
There are three groups of Special Correspondence relating to the Dan Beard Outdoor School for Boys, the Boy Scouts, and the Sons of Daniel Boone. The latter two groups consist of letters received by Beard from children who were members of these organizations. The correspondence relating to the Dan Beard Outdoor School for Boys concerns the summer camp he established in 1915 at Hawley, Pennsylvania, and operated until the mid-1930s. The letters are inquiries from parents concerning the camp and the progress of their children and purely internal correspondence relating to the financial and logistical operations of the camp.
Diaries.
Family letters sent and received.
Writings, drawings and sketches, diaries, biographical papers, financial material, military papers, photographs, printed matter, and miscellany.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence relating to the Dan Beard Outdoor School for Boys, the Boy Scouts, and Sons of Daniel Boone.
Correspondence, writings, reports, lists, minutes, and other papers.
Speeches, articles, book material, and other writings.
Address books, calendars, biographical papers, composition books, financial matter, photographs, printed material, a scrapbook, and other miscellaneous items.
Printed drawings and a scrapbook.
The papers of Douglas Southall Freeman (1886-1953) span the years 1900-1979, with the bulk of the material dating between 1934 and 1954. The papers relate to nearly all of Freeman's activities other than his work as newspaper editor. The greater portion of the papers relates to his speeches, articles, lectures, and particularly to his books. There are manuscripts of many of his speeches and articles and nearly complete manuscripts and working papers for his major writings, including his biographies of Robert E. Lee and George Washington. His correspondence also reveals his interest in social and political affairs in Richmond, in Virginia, and across the nation. The papers are organized into nine series: Diaries, Journals, and Related Material; General Correspondence; Special Correspondence and Biographical File; Material Relating to the Death of Freeman; Speech, Article, and Book File; Research File; Miscellany; Addition, and Oversize.
Significant in the collection are transcripts, photostats, maps, and source material that Freeman used in the writing of his books. Notes and bibliographies are also included. Newspaper clippings, photographs, printed matter, programs, and other memorabilia complete the collection.
The papers reveal an extensive correspondence between Freeman and prominent historians, literary figures, politicians, educators, and military leaders including Frederic William Boatwright, Harry Flood Byrd, Colgate W. Darden, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Ellen Anderson Gholson Glasgow, Dumas Malone, George C. Marshall, Allan Nevins, A. Willis Robertson, and Harry S. Truman. In addition there is business, professional, and social correspondence.
Diaries, and journals of trips with related correspondence, notes, drafts of articles, and photographs.
Letters sent and received.
Letters between Freeman and his wife, correspondence of Mr. and Mrs. Walker Buford Freeman, and other personal letters not placed in general files by Freeman and his family.
Letters and telegrams of condolence to Freeman's wife, Inez Freeman, and other material.
Drafts and printed copies of speeches and articles and drafts and galley proofs of Freeman's major books.
Source material, including transcripts, photostats, notes, and maps, and miscellaneous bibliographical material.
Newspaper clippings, programs, photographs, printed matter, and memorabilia.
General correspondence, speeches and writings, printed matter, and miscellany.
Photographs, diplomas, and maps.
The papers of Henry Delaware Flood (official name: Henry De La Warr Flood, 1865-1921) span the years 1870-1921, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1901-1921. The collection consists of correspondence, legislative bills, resolutions, newspaper articles, and other papers relating chiefly to political affairs in Virginia during Flood’s career in state politics and as a representative in Congress. The papers are organized into six series: General Correspondence, Letters Sent, Political Appointments, Subject File, Condolence Books, and Addition.
Subjects include bills introduced, army and military matters, campaign materials, diplomatic and foreign affairs, the establishment of the national fertilizer development center at Muscle Shoals, Alabama, prohibition, revenue and taxes, roads, tariffs, War Department matters, and agricultural legislation. Correspondents include Harry Flood Byrd, Richard Evelyn Byrd, John Quinn, Thomas Fortune Ryan, E. Lee Trinkle, and Robert Wickliffe Woolley.
Letters sent and received.
Alphabetical.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, reports, maps, statistical and printed matter, and a broad variety of miscellaneous material.
Letters, telegrams, and calling cards of sympathy and condolence on the death of Flood.
Letters sent and received and miscellaneous material.
The papers of Lynde Dupuy McCormick (1895-1956) span the years 1909-1959, with the bulk of the matierial dating from 1952 to 1954.. The collection consists of correspondence, reports, notes, scrapbooks, clippings, printed matter, photographs, and other papers relating chiefly to McCormick's duty as Supreme Allied Commander Atlantic, 1952-1954. Included are trip reports and subject files relating to the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
The papers of Ellery C. Stowell (1875-1958) span the years 1805-1952, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1880-1952. The collection includes his own papers as well as other members of the Stowell, Fuller, and Tapley families. It consists of family correspondence, general correspondence, reports, writings, sermons, diaries, notebooks, certificates, photographs, financial records, printed matter, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous material. The papers are organized into five series: Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Subject File, Miscellany, and Oversize.
Topics relate to Stowell's activities as a student at Harvard University and the universities of Paris and Berlin; his extensive travels in Europe, Asia, and America; and his work as a professor of international law at George Washington University, Columbia University, American University, and other institutions, particularly with respect to academic freedom at Columbia and the administration of the graduate school of American University in connection with the program of the Hall of Nations. Other subjects concern his efforts as president of the Better Government League and work with the Patriotic Service League and other civic organizations. Additional material relates to his activities as secretary adjoint of the International Peace Conference at the Hague in 1907, secretary of the Panama delegation to the same conference, and secretary of the American delegation to the International Naval Conference in London of 1908-1909. The collection also contains his writings on World War I and World II and their aftermath.
Letters sent and received.
Letters sent received.
Correspondence, writings, poems, sermons, notes, reports, printed matter, and other material.
Cards, indexes, circulars, notebooks, diaries and cash books of family members, clippings, books, printed matter, scrapbooks, photographs, certificates, and miscellaneous documents and items.
Certificates and photographs.
The papers of Paul Field Sifton (1897-1972) and Claire Ginsburg Sifton (1897-1980) span the years 1912-1980, but cover primarily the period 1925-1971. They consist of correspondence, diaries, subject files, writings, personal files, printed matter, and miscellany. The collection is of interest to students of twentieth-century American social theater, of the emergence of various labor organizations as a growing political force, and of the methodology of legislative lobbying on Capitol Hill in behalf of farmers, labor, civil rights, full employment, and other social causes. The papers are organized into nine series: Correspondence, Diaries of Claire Sifton, Subject File of Paul Field Sifton, Writings File, Personal Files, Printed Matter, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize. Files or folders pertaining to Paul Field Sifton are connoted in the container list with the acronym PFS; those of Claire Ginsburg Sifton with the acronym CGS.
The student of the social theater will find a large number of plays in many stages of composition and production for the 1922-1950 period. The Writings File includes material on the press reaction and controversy which surrounded many of the Siftons' plays: The Belt (1927), an indictment of Henry Ford's "speedup" system, was attacked as anti-capitalist. Midnight (1930), which was against capital punishment and press sensationalism, was criticized on both counts. 1931--- (1931), a naturalistic vision of unemployment and the Great Depression, was both praised and attacked from several points of view. Blood on the Moon (1933), a strong, early condemnation of Nazi Germany, was both eulogized and vilified; its London production was halted by the Lord Chamberlain as insulting to a foreign power. The one-act play, The Doctors (1938), was roundly condemned by the American Medical Association as "sanctioning" unethical medical conduct. And The Girdle of Venus (1948-1950), depicting the role of Paul Reynaud and his mistress, Hélène comtesse de Portes, in the fall of France, was dropped by the Theatre Guild when the countess's living children threatened libel action. Additionally, the Writings File includes poetry of Paul Sifton as well as short stories, book reviews, and newspapers and magazine articles of Paul and Claire Sifton. Several disparate book projects, 1922-1962, of Paul Sifton complete the Writings File.
Of importance to the students of the politics of labor organization and of the methodology of Washington lobbying are the Subject File of Paul Sifton. His involvement in the nation's first full-fledged unemployment compensation system (New York State, 1934-1938) led to his post in the newly created Wages and Hours Division in the Department of Labor. This was followed by his position as consumers' counsel, Bituminous Coal Administration, Department of the Interior. After leaving government service in 1941, he became national legislative representative for a number of organizations including the National Farmers' Union, the Union for Democratic Action, and the National Council for a Permanent Fair Employment Practice Committee, among others. Additionally, during World War II, he served as a labor representative on the War Manpower Commission. From 1948 until his retirement in 1962, Paul Sifton devoted his time and attention to the position of national legislative representative of the International Union, United Automobile Workers of America (CIO). The subject files have some chronological overlapping, particularly in the 1941-1947 period when he engaged in successive lobbying efforts in behalf of several complementary causes.
The Correspondence series, Diaries of Claire Sifton, material on a 1963 testimonial dinner to Paul Sifton, and the Miscellany reflect the couple's involvement in writing and the theater as well as their interest in farmers, labor, women, civil rights, full employment, and other contemporary issues.
The largest amount of personal correspondence occurred in the summers when Claire Sifton went to Maine with her two sons, and Paul remained in New York City and (later) Washington, D.C. Theatrical and literary correspondence is concentrated in the 1929-1940 period. After 1941, the non-family correspondence touches on many of the topics covered in the Subject File of Paul Sifton. The Diaries of Claire Sifton include detailed comment on college life in the 1915-1916 period; the thoughts of a young working woman in Manhattan in 1922; the private comments of a government official's wife in late New Deal Washington; and some increasingly philosophical and introspective observations in her later years. Perhaps the most interesting contemporary evaluations of Paul Sifton's impact and influence on others are contained in the letters presented to him at the testimonial dinner in his honor in 1963.
The Printed Matter series includes material Paul Sifton retained for an eventual evaluation of his work and career. The Miscellany documents a new group of interests that engaged his attention in the last decade of his life. A victim of emphysema, he felt that pollution abatement, alternative energy systems, use of non-fossil fuels, and the use of fish protein (for the underdeveloped areas of the world) were of paramount importance to mankind's survival on the planet. The last segment of the Miscellany comprises obituary, funeral, and condolence material on the Siftons, as well as photographs, press cards, address files, family genealogy, and other items.
Eminent figures represented in the letters presented at the testimonial dinner to Paul Sifton in 1963 include John F. Kennedy and past and incumbent senators, congressmen, cabinet officers, and numerous officials in farmer, labor, political, governmental, and social welfare organizations. Other prominent correspondents in the collection include Esther Root Adams (Mrs. "F.P.A."), Brooks Atkinson, Helen Gahagan Douglas, Paul H. Douglas, attorney Walter Frank, British freelance writer Ruth Esther Howe, German-language translator Heinrich Kranz, James I. Loeb, writer David Loth, Norma Millay, theatrical agent Adrienne Morrison, Reinhold Niebuhr, National Farmers' Union president James G. Patton, Roy Reuther, Victor Reuther, and Walter Reuther, New Yorker cartoonist Carl Rose, theatrical agent Leah Javne Salisbury, producer Herman Shumlin, and publisher Herbert Bayard Swope.
On Claire Sifton's background and childhood as the daughter of Southern Baptist missionaries to Brazil, the reader is referred to her father's official work, A Wandering Jew in Brazil: An Autobiography of Solomon L. Ginsburg (Nashville, Southern Baptist Convention, 1922), and to her sister's more lighthearted work, Henriqueta Chamberlain, Where the Sabia Sings: A Partial Autobiography (New York, Macmillan, 1947). On Paul Sifton's Canadian family background, see the near-print genealogies as well as two issues of Maclean's magazine, December 5 and 19, 1959, that depict the Canadian branch of the family.
In addition to personal and family correspondence, this group includes material on theatrical and literary works (including acceptance, rejection, press reaction, and censorship); job security and the writer's market in the Great Depression; the effects of working inside and outside the federal government service in Washington, D.C.; and disparate lobbying activities that engaged Paul and Claire Sifton.
Personal diaries and ledger/account books kept by Claire Sifton.
Printed matter and a wide variety of miscellaneous material. This group closely follows the career changes in Paul Sifton's life. The last container in the series comprises personnel, loyalty, and medical files on Paul Sifton and a personnel file on Claire Sifton.
Plays in multiple stages of their composition and production, as well as press reaction and research and background material. Also includes material on the "Revolting Playwrights" movement (1935). Poems of Paul Sifton start in the post-World War I period, and end with To the Dallas Underpass (1965). Both Siftons are represented in newspaper and magazine articles; short stories; and book reviews. Book projects of Paul Sifton include an unpublished autobiographical novel (1922); an expose of John L. Lewis (1943); and a proposed work on fisheries in the Third World (1962).
Material assembled for a testimonial dinner given to Paul Sifton in Washington, D.C., April 23, 1963. Includes a bound volume of presented letters; a larger group of letters not included in the volume; photographs taken at the dinner; notes, remarks, and miscellany. One container has photocopies of letters presented to Sifton.
Clippings, near-print itesm, pamphlets, and issue-oriented material that reflect Paul Sifton's newspaperman's instinct for the preservation of his sources. Notable groups include post-World War II issues (price decontrol, inflation, atomic energy, full employment, and civil rights); material on the United Automobile Workers; and scrapbooks on John L. Lewis and the United Mine Workers. The latter complement a book project (1943) in the Writings File.
Material reflects Paul Sifton's post-retirement interests; also includes obituary, funeral, and condolence files, photographs, press cards, address files, Sifton family items, Sifton genealogy (Canadian), and other items.
Typescripts of articles, books, and other writings, and miscellany. Includes first and authors' editions of the Siftons' plays and books.
Photocopies of clippings in scrapbooks.
The papers of Harry Church Oberholser (1870-1963) span the years 1856-1960, with the bulk of the material dating from 1920 to 1945. The collection consists primarily of correspondence supplemented by bird counts, membership certificates, printed matter, articles by Oberholser and others, material on African birds, and cards illustrating bird measurements. The papers are in English and organized into four series: General Correspondence, Special Correspondence, Miscellany, and 2022 Addition.
The General Correspondence consists chiefly of letters from ornithologists and other scientists concerning bird life and bird specimens in the United States and other countries, letters concerning Oberholser’s work with scientific organizations, and correspondence concerning his books and articles.
Correspondents include John W. Aldrich, American Museum of Natural History, American Ornithologists' Union, Florence Merriam Bailey, Vernon Bailey, W. B. Bell, Arthur Cleveland Bent, Louis B. Bishop, Herbert Brandt, James McKeen Cattell, Cleveland Museum of Natural History, Clarence Cottam, A. K. Fisher, Edward Howe Forbush, Joseph Grinnell, Ludlow Griscom, Henry W. Henshaw, Hartley H. T. Jackson, Lynds Jones, Charles R. Keyes, A. J. Kirn, S. P. Langley, Frederick Charles Lincoln, C. Hart Merriam, Edward William Nelson, Margaret Morse Nice, T. S. Palmer, T. Gilbert Pearson, Edward Alexander Preble, Charles Wallace Richmond, Robert Ridgway, Thomas S. Roberts, Alexander Sprunt, Witmer Stone, P. A. Taverner, Walter P. Taylor, W. E. Clyde Todd, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, United States Bureau of Biological Survey, United States National Museum, Josselyn Van Tyne, and Wilson Ornithological Club.
The 2022 Addition includes notebooks containing Oberholser's ornithological observations, particularly in the Shelburne Falls, Massachusetts, and Red Bank, New Jersey, areas from 1886 to 1888.
Chiefly letters from ornithologists and other scientists concerning bird life and bird specimens in the United States and other countries, letters concerning Oberholser’s work with scientific organizations, and correspondence concerning his books and articles.
Letters concerning a memorial fund for Robert Ridgway with documents relating to the Ridgway Bird Haven Association and Ridgway Bird Haven Memorial, and letters from students from James Monroe School, Clarendon, Va.
Articles, subject files relating to birds, photographs, printed matter, and miscellaneous items.
Journal, list, notebooks, and puzzle book.
The papers of Louis Skidmore (1897-1962) span the years 1908-1976 and consist of correspondence, diaries, subject files, family papers, and other papers relating chiefly to Skidmore's career as an architect. Included in the collection is material pertaining to William Ralph Emerson, Robert Moses, the American Institute of Architects, and the firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
The papers of St. George Leakin Sioussat (1878-1960) span the years 1831-1959 and consist of correspondence, 1926-1959, with American scholars and librarians concerning the location of Duff Green papers and transcripts and photostats of correspondence, 1841-1867, of Richard Cobden, Edward Everett, Duff Green, Joseph Hume, John MacGregor, Robert Peel, John Tyler, Daniel Webster, and others relating to American-British diplomacy, with emphasis on Green's missions to England. Also included are notes and memoranda from published and unpublished sources, including American, British, and French newspapers, pamphlets, and diplomatic dispatches collected for the purpose of writing an account of Green's diplomatic career.
The papers of Laurence Adolph Steinhardt (1892-1950) span the years 1929-1950, with the bulk of the material focused on his career in the State Department from 1933 until his death in an airplane crash in 1950. Included are correspondence, memoranda, reports, legal and financial records, speeches and writings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to his positions as ambassador to Sweden, Peru, the Soviet Union, Turkey, Czechoslovakia, and Canada.. The papers are organized into five series: General File; Subject and Legal Files; Letterbooks; Addition; and Classified.
The General File (formerly titled Miscellaneous) constitutes the bulk of the collection and consists largely of incoming correspondence, embassy reports, writings, and personal material organized by year. The papers also contain personal financial material, files relating to the day-to-day operation of the various embassies to which Steinhardt was assigned, and a small number of articles and speeches.
Included among the many notable correspondents in the collection are George V. Allen, Anthony Joseph Drexel Biddle, Joseph Edward Davies, James A. Farley, Loy W. Henderson, Cordell Hull, C. D. Jackson, Alfred A. Knopf, Ruth Bryan Owen, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Edward R. Stettinius, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, and Sumner Welles.
Correspondence (largely incoming), memoranda, reports, financial papers, drafts and printed copies of articles and speeches, clippings, cards and invitations, and printed matter.
Memoranda, reports, legal and financial records.
Bound volumes of carbon copies of outgoing letters.
Family, personal, and general correspondence.
Correspondence, speeches, writings, clippings, and miscellany.
Speeches, statements, and related correspondence.
Business, financial, and legal papers.
Newspaper articles, clippings, and unidentified and undated material.
Correspondence.
The papers of Abraham Alexander Ribicoff (1910-1998) span the years 1927-1981, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1963-1980. The collection contains correspondence, memoranda, reports, press material, voting records, statements, congressional testimony, speeches, articles, printed matter, scrapbooks, other administrative and legislative matter, and miscellaneous material, including microfilm of correspondence and scrapbooks, relating chiefly to Ribicoff's senatorial career. The material is organized into eight series: Pre-Senate Records; Senate Records; Political Papers; Miscellany; 1987 Addition; 2023 Addition; Microfilm Set I: Outgoing Correspondence; and Microfilm Set II: Scrapbooks.
The papers of Abraham Ribicoff, lawyer and public official, constitute an important collection that touches upon many of the most significant developments in modern American government. [1] Ribicoff was born in a tenement in New Britain, Connecticut, on April 9, 1910, the son of a factory worker, and the urban, industrial environment in which he grew to maturity provided much of the agenda for his long years of public service. At the age of twenty-eight, after establishing a law practice in Hartford, he was elected to the lower house of the Connecticut General Assembly, where he served in the first of his many varied roles in American political life. He was a municipal judge, chairman of the Hartford Charter Revision Commission, a hearing examiner to enforce the state fair-employment practices act, a member of Congress (1949-1953), governor of Connecticut (1955-1961), secretary of health, education, and welfare (1961-1962), and United States senator (1963-1981). This collection relates principally to his service in the Senate, but there are fragments that bear upon his earlier positions as well, and researchers will often catch a glimpse of Ribicoff's experiences in state and local government with problems that concerned him as a senator and cabinet officer.
A large body of his papers relating to his governorship is in the Connecticut State Library, but important material is to be found in this collection. His election as governor in 1954 was widely applauded by reformers and the Democratic faithful, and the national significance of his victory can be gleaned from the congratulations of political figures such as W. Averell Harriman, Adlai E. Stevenson, and Bernard M. Baruch. His speech files as governor are especially useful for an examination of his evolving positions, and they contain themes that would recur throughout his career. Not the least of these themes was the plea in his inaugural message for all political factions “to cooperate to respect each other's motives, to search for areas of common agreement, to share credit, in short, to understand and practice what I should like to call the integrity of compromise....”
Connecticut politics during the 1950s was characterized by strong party leadership, disciplined organizations, and an unusually high degree of straight-ticket voting, but underneath the order and regularity was one of the most diverse and volatile constituencies in the nation. Any disturbance in the surface calm revealed this political complexity, and a particularly interesting episode can be explored in the correspondence Ribicoff received during the struggle for the Democratic Senate nomination in 1958. There was an impassioned letter from Philip C. Jessup, the distinguished diplomat and jurist, who implored the governor to support Chester Bowles as “the man who can make the greatest contribution to the solution of the crucial international issues which beset us. If we do not solve them, it will in the long run make no difference to any of us what we do on various local issues.” Other correspondents were more concerned about domestic policy, and many asked Ribicoff to support former senator William Benton as “an able and progressive-minded man... who did more than anyone else to start McCarthyism on its downward course.” The candidacy of Thomas J. Dodd, who subsequently received the nomination, was urged by many correspondents, including a Dodd associate who advised Ribicoff that “your endorsement will be a good thing not only for Tom, but also for your own future plans.”
Ribicoff as governor clearly had his future plans well under control, and the extensive scrapbooks in the collection contain numerous press accounts describing his many initiatives in Hartford, such as highway safety reform and the abolition of county government, which inspired boomlets by admirers to secure the vice-presidency or a Senate seat for him. He quickly emerged as New England's leading governor, and it was in this capacity that he played such a critical role in the presidential aspirations of John F. Kennedy, his former colleague in the House of Representatives. Ribicoff later recalled that his relationship with Kennedy, “prior to and after the election, was on a personal face-to-face oral basis,” and thus the material in the collection bearing directly upon the Kennedy-Ribicoff relationship is not extensive. There is, nevertheless, useful data in the Ribicoff and memoranda from the Kennedy headquarters outlining campaign strategy. There is an intriguing letter from Ribicoff to Pierre Salinger, Kennedy's press secretary, regarding the frequent inquiries about the potential influence of Rome in a Kennedy administration: "It is amazing how many times you must repeat yourself before it gets into the consciousness of people. From long experience, however, I know that even the most simple thoughts must be repeated over and over again."
Ribicoff resigned as governor of Connecticut to become secretary of health, education, and welfare in the Kennedy administration, but he continued to follow Connecticut developments through correspondence from journalists and political associates. Ribicoff also returned to Connecticut frequently throughout his service in the cabinet, and his scheduling files are particularly helpful for understanding his relationship to state and local politics. Itineraries and correspondence about engagements are also useful supplements to his speeches for reconstructing the Connecticut dimension of his cabinet service.
About ninety percent of this large collection documents Ribicoff's career in the Senate (1963-1981). He is perhaps best known for his long tenure on the Governmental Affairs Committee, which he chaired during the 94th through 96th Congresses, where his work in civil service, government reorganization, ethics legislation, nuclear nonproliferation, and energy policy represented major themes in the political life of the late 1970s. In addition to files on these continuing legislative interests, there is also material on many individual investigations that had lasting significance. Students of modern reform will profit, for example, from examining a series of files relating to Ribicoff's investigations of the Chevrolet Corvair and highway safety, a classic inquiry into the complex juncture of modern corporate policy, government regulation, and the consumer movement. The Corvair investigations were a natural outgrowth of his concern while governor of Connecticut with highway safety. There are also extensive files on Ribicoff's investigations of mismanagement and corruption in the conduct of the war in Vietnam, which are intriguing for what they reveal about the dynamics of congressional oversight as well as for the light they shed on military organization in the combat zone.
As a leading spokesperson for modern liberalism, Ribicoff's legislative interests touched every aspect of welfare reform, urban development, civil rights, and the federal role in education and health care. His papers are a distillation of the reform agenda of the 1960s and the 1970s. He was a prominent figure in the most important legislative initiatives of the New Frontier and the Great Society, and one can explore the entire range of domestic policy in the varied material of this collection.
Although Ribicoff was associated with many of the most advanced reform measures of our time and happily acknowledged that he “grew up with the New Deal ideology as an article of faith,” [2] he was deeply troubled by a tendency among fellow liberals to make hasty predictions about programs that had not been adequately planned or tested. This became a major theme in his strategy as a reformer. Many of his reservations were expressed in a letter about the Head Start program to Douglass Cater, a special assistant in the Johnson White House. Ribicoff understood the virtue of preschool education for disadvantaged children, but he felt that “we are wasting our resources when we commit them to programs that do not fulfill their promised results.” Head Start did not identify and attract the most seriously disadvantaged children, it did not pay sufficient attention to the child's subsequent school experience, and it suffered from fragmented administrative structures, mismanagement, and lack of coordination. “We must focus attention on the problems our efforts are designed to resolve,” he concluded, “and ignore the opportunity to satisfy ourselves with the fact we have passed, established, and funded x number of programs.”
The extensive Legislative File in the collection contains bill files, documents relating to the oversight functions of congressional committees, and the working files of various staff members. Although all of these files are fragmentary, many of the fragments provide important insights into the legislative process. Among the most interesting files are those relating to Ribicoff's role on the Finance Committee in considering the Family Assistance Plan, the Nixon administration's principal welfare reform measure. It was a far-reaching proposal for income maintenance, and Ribicoff remarked to his colleagues in the Senate that he had “never been involved in a piece of legislation as controversial, which is more diverse, and contains as many emotional, philosophical, economic, and social problems.” The proposal passed the House but failed in the Senate, and not the least of the many ironies involved was that Ribicoff found himself, “as a Democrat, fighting for the administration proposal, opposing the proposal of the man I nominated as the Democratic nominee for the presidency.”
As the Finance Committee member who was most knowledgeable about welfare measures, Ribicoff received an avalanche of mail about the Family Assistance Plan from some of the most articulate sectors of American society. Letters from university professors such as Chester McArthur Destler, an important historian of American reform, and James Tobin, who later received a Nobel Prize for economics, give the constituent correspondence files an unusually sophisticated character, and there are also letters from an array of Fortune 500 executives, civil rights spokesmen, and directors of public welfare agencies throughout the country. Ribicoff established a welfare advisory group to review the administration's proposals, and the work of these advisers can be studied in several files. There are exchanges between Ribicoff and administration officials such as Daniel P. Moynihan, Elliot Richardson, and Robert Finch, and there is a particularly poignant letter to George S. McGovern in which Ribicoff details the deficiencies of the McGovern proposals. Within the welter of technical details, however, several fundamental reform principals were always in the forefront of Ribicoff's strategy: he insisted upon (1) pilot programs to test novel propositions; (2) the establishment of attainable goals; (3) assistance to all impoverished Americans, not simply the unemployed and single-parent families; and (4) ancillary measures to create employment opportunities for able-bodied welfare recipients. Perhaps more than any of his colleagues in the Senate, he understood the “guaranteed income” features of the program and endorsed them as a radical departure from the conventional welfare system.
In addition to the strength of Ribicoff's papers for studies of government operations, social welfare policy, and urban affairs, scholars will also find the collection useful for tracing the evolution of international trade policy, arms control, consumer legislation, and environmental protection measures. Ribicoff's efforts to protect the environment were national in scope, but they were particularly relevant for the Northeast, and one finds rich material for projects concerning the Long Island Sound, the Connecticut River, and the Housatonic River valley. There are also individual documents of considerable significance, such as Ribicoff's detailed response to the elaborate questionnaire Ralph Nader circulated for his study of Congress. Several transcripts of oral history interviews conducted with members of his staff are also contained in the collection.
The 1987 Addition is comprised of files related to the Government Operations Committee’s investigation of computer crime in federal programs and private industry. Material includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, congressional testimony statements, transcripts, clippings, and other printed matter.
The 2023 Addition consists of bound volumes, titled “Speeches,” containing select speeches, hearing statements, and articles from Ribicoff's tenure as a United States senator. This material addresses a variety of topics, including defense, economics, education, energy, the environment, governmental affairs, health, international affairs, trade and finance, Jewish concerns, social justice, legal issues, taxes, transportation, and urban affairs and development.
1. This description of the collection is taken from Library of Congress Acquisitions, Manuscript Division, 1982 (Washington, D.C., 1984), 20-23
2. Abraham Ribicoff, America Can Make It! (New York: Atheneum, 1972), 7.
Subject and speech files kept while serving in the United States House of Representatives, as governor of Connecticut, and as secretary of health, education, and welfare.
Correspondence, reports, speeches, press releases, bill files, and legislative assistants' records.
Correspondence, subject files, and campaign files.
Voting records, biographical information, article and book file, reports, scrapbooks and memorabilia.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, congressional testimony statements and transcripts, newspaper clippings and other printed matter pertaining to the committee's investigation of computer crime in federal programs and private industry.
Bound volumes containing select speeches, hearing statements, and articles on a variety of domestic and international issues from Ribicoff's tenure as a United States senator.
Microfilm of outgoing correspondence.
Microfilm of scrapbooks.
The papers of Waldo Peirce (1884-1970) span the years 1889-1977 and consist of a diary, correspondence, writings, legal and financial papers, photographs, and miscellaneous personal items. The collection is organized into six series: Diary, Family Correspondence, General Correspondence, Miscellany, Formerly Restricted Family Correspondence, and Addition.
Much of the Family Correspondence and Formerly Restricted Family Correspondence is between Waldo Peirce and his mother, Anna Hayford Peirce, 1892-1928. Often illustrated with pen and ink drawings, the son’s letters trace Peirce's artistic career in vivid detail. Her letters describe life in Bangor, Maine, and the various countries that she visited. Also in the Family Correspondence are letters of Waldo’s brother, Hayford Peirce, an authority on Byzantine art and author of publications on late Roman, Byzantine, and early Islamic archaeology.
Prominent correspondents in the General Correspondence include fellow artists such as George Biddle, Douglas W. Gorsline, Marsden Hartley, Doris Lee, Henry Varnum Poor, Homer Saint-Gaudens, Millard Sheets, Frederic Taubes, Hendrik Willem Van Loon, Art Young, Dahlov, Zorach Ipcar, and William Zorach. Also prominent are letters from Ernest Hemingway (whom Peirce met in France during World War I and accompanied on several trips to Spain), Earnest Albert Hooton, Samuel Eliot Morison, and Maxwell E. Perkins. Of particular interest are letters he received from his close friend Lincoln Colcord, a literary critic and author of sea stories, for the period 1923-1944.
Included in the Miscellany are an incomplete draft of an autobiography, bills and receipts, drawings made by Peirce’s children and grandchildren, a holograph collection of his Rabelaisian poetry, and school papers from when he was a student at Harvard. Many of the latter are embellished with Peirce's pen and ink drawings, and some are further enhanced by the often acerbic comments of Charles Townsend Copeland.
Formerly Restricted Family Correspondence consists of letters received that were made available to readers without requiring special permission beginning in 1998. The Addition supplements previously processed series of family material, general correspondence, and miscellany.
Bound diary.
Letters sent and received by Peirce and various members of his family.
Letters sent and received.
Bills and receipts, poems, school papers, and other items.
Family letters received.
Family correspondence, general correspondence, special correspondence, writings and miscellaneous material.
The papers of Emanuel Alexander Goldenweiser (1883-1953) span the years 1911-1952, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period from 1930 to 1945. The collection relates almost wholly to financial and economic affairs with major emphasis on Federal Reserve Board matters. Correspondents include Dean Acheson, Louis D. Brandeis, Paul H. Douglas, Marriner Eccles, Ralph A. Young, Carter Glass, John Maynard Keynes, Charles Rist, and Fred M. Vinson.
The papers are organized into General Correspondence and Subject File series.
Letters sent and received.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, speeches, congressional testimony, writings, and miscellaneous material.
The papers of Ruth Gordon (1896-1985) span the years 1924-1969, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1940 and 1969. Included in the collection are correspondence, scripts, financial records, and other material relating mainly to the plays and motion pictures in which Gordon appeared. The papers are organized into four series: General Correspondence; Articles, Drama, and Motion Picture File; Financial Records; and Miscellany.
The General Correspondence consists mainly of letters received by Gordon, with only a scattered number of her replies. The correspondence relates primarily to her career as an actress and author and includes a substantial number of letters of particular interest from Edna Ferber, Alex Guinness, Vivien Leigh, Anita Loos, and Robert Morse.
Included in the Articles, Drama, and Motion Picture File are scripts and screenplays (many in sequential drafts that show the evolution of the work into its final form), financial records, publicity material, and reviews of the works. There is also correspondence relating to specific plays and motion pictures. A group of financial records contain Gordon's bank statements and cancelled checks for the years 1937-1957.
Mainly letters received with a few replies.
Articles, outlines, scripts, correspondence and other production material.
Bank statements and cancelled checks.
Printed biographical material and a miscellaneous item.
The papers of Peter Marshall (1902-1949) and Catherine Marshall (1914-1983), husband and wife, span the years 1927-1964, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1933-1956. Personal materials of Peter Marshall comprise about a fourth of the collection, including a small amount of correspondence and a large file of notes for his sermons. The sermons, about 850 in number, cover the period 1933 through January 1948 and include such well-known sermons as “Singing in the Rain,” “Go Down Death,” “Under Sealed Orders,” “The King is in the Audience,” and “Rendezvous in Samarra.” There are also synopses of many of the sermons and various indexes that list the sermons by title, date, location, subject matter, and quotations used. The collection is organized into seven series: Peter Marshall: Sermons, Peter Marshall: Correspondence, Catherine Marshall: Correspondence, Catherine Marshall: Book and Article File, Scrapbooks, Addition I, and Addition II.
Catherine Marshall's papers, in addition to treating her own career as an author and lecturer following the death of her husband, are mainly oriented to the life of Peter Marshall and to her biography of him, A Man Called Peter. Most of her correspondence consists of mail from persons who read her numerous books and saw the motion picture based on the biography.
A significant portion of the papers concerns the production by Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation of A Man Called Peter. There are verbatim records of the conferences attended by Catherine Marshall and representatives of Twentieth Century-Fox during planning of the film. In addition to many versions of the film script, these records present the metamorphosis of the work from printed page to celluloid. Important correspondents include screenwriter Eleanor Griffin, producer Samuel G. Engel, and the film's principal performers, Richard Todd, Jean Peters, and Marjorie Rambeau.
Also in the collection are other manuscripts of Catherine Marshall's published works, some of which include both original drafts and corrected copies of proofs.
The Scrapbooks series is composed mainly of printed material including some correspondence relating to Peter Marshall's election as chaplain of the United States Senate, his death, and Catherine Marshall's subsequent career as an author. Addition I and Addition II contain miscellaneous sermons and ideas for sermon, written prayers, seminary papers of Peter Marshall, and other material.
An appendix to this finding aid lists the names and dates of correspondents in the Peter Marshall: Correspondence series of the collection.
Texts of sermons by Peter Marshall and related material.
Family letters and general correspondence of letters sent and received by Peter Marshall. Names and dates of correspondents are listed in an appendix.
Letters sent and received by Catherine Marshall.
Drafts and production material of Mrs. Marshall's published books and articles and an unpublished work. The manuscript of A Man Called Peter also contains papers concerning the movie version of the work.
Mainly biographical material about Peter Marshall and publicity relating to the books and movie about him.
Miscellaneous sermons, prayers, articles, and seminary papers of Peter Marshall.
Material for sermon ideas, typescripts of sermons and prayers, and miscellany relating to Peter Marshall.
The papers of Louis Theodore Michener (1848-1928) span the years 1880-1927. The collection consists of correspondence, reports, memoranda, newspaper clippings, an autograph album, and printed matter relating chiefly to Indiana and Republican Party politics and to Michener's role in Benjamin Harrison's senate campaign of 1886 and presidential campaigns of 1888 and, 1892. Correspondents include Albert Jeremiah Beveridge, Chauncey M. Depew, Frederick Douglass, Stephen B. Elkins, Joseph Benson Foraker, Walter Quintin Gresham, Marcus Alonzo Hanna, Benjamin Harrison, Eugene Gano Hay, William McKinley, Joseph Homan Manley, John W. Noble, Henry C. Payne, Thomas Collier Platt, Albert G. Porter, Robert Robertson, Theodore Roosevelt, Jeremiah McLain Rusk, John Sherman, William H. Taft, Lew Wallace, and John Wanamaker.
The papers of Lawrence Quincy Mumford (1903-1982) cover the years 1939-1982, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1954 to 1974, including correspondence, writings, bibliographical material, invitations, schedules, programs, committee reports, congressional bills, reports, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
Mumford’s correspondence chiefly reflects the personal aspects of his career, beginning with his special appointment as director of the Processing Department at the Library of Congress while on leave of absence from New York Public Library, 1940-1942. His nomination as Librarian of Congress by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1954 is documented by letters of support and congratulations from Library colleagues. His correspondence as librarian consists primarily of letters of thanks and recommendation and reflects the social and cultural duties of his office.
The writings consist of articles by Mumford and publications by others on topics of interest to him.
A miscellany file includes appointment schedules, invitations, and programs; biographical file; committee reports; conference file; congressional bills, reports, and hearings; newspaper clippings; and photographs.
The papers of Otto Sternoff Beyer (1886-1948) consist of personal and professional correspondence, memoranda, reports, speeches and articles, charts, and other papers, as well as scrapbooks of clippings relating mainly to his professional career. The papers span the years 1905-1951, but bulk largest from 1929 to 1941. The collection is organized into eleven series: General Correspondence, Subject File, General Railroad File, Canadian National Railways, Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, Tennessee Valley Authority, Bonneville Power Administration, Speech and Article File, Scrapbooks, Addition, and Oversize.
During Beyer's military service in World War I, he developed a program of union-management cooperation in army arsenals. Thereafter, he served as consulting engineer to unions and management in various industrial concerns and in railway systems such as the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company and the Canadian National Railways, acquiring a reputation as a leader in the improvement of labor-management relations. From 1933 to 1948, Beyer held a number of posts in the federal government. His papers document his widespread activities in considerable detail, including labor-management cooperation in the field of railway transportation, his connection with federal agencies, and work in the area of labor relations, unions, wages, strikes, and unemployment.
An Addition series contains biographical material and letters of condolence from Harry S. Truman, James Tobin, and others government officials. The article file in the Addition contains Beyer's notes on a projected history of railroad personnel, in which he was encouraged by Professor Sumner Slichter of Harvard. The subject file contains background material on his various positions with railroads, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and the National Mediation Board during World War II. There is also material pertaining to Clara M. Beyer consisting of family correspondence and photographs, White House invitations, and material pertaining to her own position in the Labor Department.
Correspondents in the Addition include Franklin D. Roosevelt, Eleanor Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, David E. Lilienthal, Frances Perkins and William Green of the American Federation of Labor.
Letters sent and received with attached and related matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, notes, reports, charts, articles, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, notes, charts, articles, printed matter and miscellaneous material relating to Beyer's work regarding railroads.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, notes, charts, articles, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the Canadian National Railways.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, notes, charts, articles, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Co.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, notes, charts, articles, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the Tennessee Valley Authority.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, notes, charts, articles, printed matter, and miscellaneous material relating to the Bonneville Power Administration.
Correspondence and texts of speeches and articles by Beyer, including drafts and printed and near print copies. Arranged according to type of material and chronologically therein, with the exception of Beyer's draft history of railroad personnel located at the end of the series.
Bound volumes of printed matter and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, reports, notes, articles, memorabilia, and miscellaneous material.
Certificates and scrapbooks.
The papers of Jabez Lamar Munroe Curry (1825-1903) consist of diaries, correspondence, an autograph collection, printed matter, clippings, memorabilia, notes and memoranda, legal papers, accounts, lectures and sermons, essays, scrapbooks, a manuscript of an autobiography, speeches and articles, and miscellaneous material. The collection spans the years 1637-1939, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1866-1903. The papers are organized into two parts. Part I is composed of a Correspondence and General File. Part II consists of four series: Correspondence, Autographs, Diaries, and Miscellany.
Included in the Autographs series are correspondence and letters (many to Curry himself) from United States presidents; Confederate statesmen; Spanish noblemen, royalty, and writers; and American and European artists, clergyman, diplomats, educators, historians, jurists, literary figures, military men, reformers, scientists, and statesmen. Among the signatories are John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay, Benjamin Franklin, Albert Gallatin, Washington Irving, Thomas Jefferson, Andrew Johnson, James Madison, Luis de Onís, James K. Polk, Richard Rush, Daniel Webster, Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington, and Roger Williams.
Reports, journals, writings, printed matter, and other material in the Miscellany series are organized mainly in bound volumes designated as Record Books A to G compiled by Curry. Subjects in the collection concern topics such as the Peabody Education Fund, the John F. Slater Fund for the Education of Freedmen, the Southern Education Board, Curry’s studies on Civil War history and the civil government of the Confederacy, and diplomatic matters in Spain.
The Diaries and much of the correspondence relate to Curry’s career as an educator, diplomat, and Baptist minister. Correspondents include William Aiken, James Burrill Angel, Thomas F. Bayard, William Ashmead Courtenay, William Maxwell Evarts, Hamilton Fish (1808-1893), Melville Weston Fuller, Moses Coit Gilman, Rutherford Birchard Hayes, Samuel A. Green, Henry R Jackson, Theodore Lyman, James D. Porter, Eben S. Stearns, Alexander H. H. Stuart, Moses Waddel, and Robert C. Winthrop.
Bound volumes of letters received by Curry and his wife. Includes reports, writings, and printed matter.
Bound volumes of letters received by Curry and by others after his death.
Letters of prominent Americans and Europeans, many to Curry, but also predating him, compiled as an autograph collection.
Pocket diaries.
The papers of Juliana Knoepfmacher (1899-1974), known primarily as “Lia” during the American period of her career after the 1940s, span the years 1929-1980, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the years 1940-1960. The collection consists of professional files relating to her work as a child therapist and her writings on the treatment of children. The papers contain lectures, speeches, writings, notes, minutes, agenda, correspondence, memoranda, biographical material, and printed matter arranged alphabetically by topic or type of material. Patient case files and notes are closed.
Much of the collection relates to Knoepfmacher’s professional associations and her work as a training supervisor with the Jewish Board of Guardians in New York City. Minutes, memoranda, and reports from the Jewish Board of Guardians and other organizations explore such topics as supervision and teaching methods, time in treatment, treatment goals, diagnostic criteria, private practice, and fee structures. Files from the Paul Federn Study Group feature meeting notes and discussion material, including a paper by August Aichhorn on transference in child guidance dated 1936. Writings by Knoepfmacher include her account of a Montessori school she directed in Vienna from 1927 to 1937 and articles and papers principally relating to her work in the field of child therapy. The balance of the professional files include speeches, lectures, and writings of others.
The papers of Joseph Anthony Lewis (1927-2013) span the years 1941-2007, with the bulk of material dating from 1963 to 2001. The papers document primarily Lewis’s career as a newspaper reporter and columnist for the New York Times and his work as an author of several books about legal issues. In 1963 Lewis won a Pulitzer Prize for his reporting about the Supreme Court and is credited with changing the field of legal journalism. Although not a lawyer, Lewis had a grasp of the complexities of the law and a clear writing style that made legal issues more understandable to the public. The collection consists of two parts with some topics and time periods common to both parts. Part I consists chiefly of drafts and research files for two of Lewis’s books, Gideon’s Trumpet (1964) and Portrait of a Decade (1964), and letters from readers of Lewis’s New York Times column between 1969 and 1975. Part II makes up the bulk of the collection and pertains chiefly to Lewis’s tenure while a reporter and columnist with the New York Times from 1955 to 2001. Also included in Part II are files relating to his endeavors as a university lecturer and his writings, including drafts of articles, book drafts, and research files. The papers contain only a few items relating to Lewis’s career before 1955. The collection is in English.
Part I
Part I of the Lewis Papers spans the years 1941-1975, with the bulk of material produced from 1963 to 1974. Drafts, research files, and letters from readers of Lewis's New York Times column between 1969 and 1975 are organized into three series: Subject File, Letters from Readers, and Writings.
The Letters from Readers series comprises the largest part of Part I. Lewis's staff organized most of the letters he received between 1969 and July 1973 into a topical file and those received after July 1973 into a chronological file. The series provides insight into public opinion during a politically and socially turbulent era. Most of the letters were written by the general public and concern issues such as busing for racial integration of schools, medicine and health care, student protests, the Vietnam War, and Watergate. Prominent correspondents include Hubert H. Humphrey on busing; Allen Ginsberg on crime and drugs; general comments by David Halberstam and Daniel P. Moynihan; and Alfred M. Landon, John Le Carré, Lewis Mumford, and Benjamin Spock on Vietnam. Lewis's replies to these letters are included in the series.
The Writings series contains drafts and research files for two of Lewis's books. In Gideon's Trumpet, he explored the Supreme Court ruling in Gideon v. Wainwright that required states to provide indigent criminal defendants with free counsel. Research for the book includes copies of letters between Clarence Earl Gideon, Abe Fortas, and the court; correspondence and documents concerning amicus curiae briefs filed by various states; correspondence with lawyers representing Gideon in his second trial; and a survey of state public defender programs. In Portrait of a Decade, Lewis traced the civil rights movement from 1954 to 1964 largely through the New York Times reporting of these events. Although the research files consist primarily of clippings, they also contain correspondence and an unsigned letter from Harris Wofford concerning his role in arranging John F. Kennedy's phone call to Coretta Scott King in November 1960.
The collection also contains a small Subject File comprising research material for some of Lewis's articles.
Part II
Part II of the Lewis Papers spans from 1944-2007, with the bulk of material dating from 1964 to 2001. Papers in this addition supplement Part I of the collection. The majority of the papers in Part II document Lewis’s career with the New York Times from 1955 to 2001. Lewis reported and commented for over five decades on many prominent issues relating to national and international affairs, including civil rights, the press, the Supreme Court and various legal issues, the Vietnam War, the Watergate scandal, the Iran-Contra Affair, the Middle East, the apartheid regime in South Africa, immigration, and terrorism. Also represented in Part II are teaching files pertaining to university classes that Lewis taught about legal issues and journalism, book files, and a few family papers. The papers of Part II are arranged into the following series: Annual File, Letters from Readers, Writings, Notebooks, Miscellany, and Classified.
The Annual File in Part II, 1949-2007, includes correspondence, subject files, interviews, notes, reports, newspaper clippings, and speeches and writings by Lewis. It is the largest series and focuses mainly on his tenure as a reporter and columnist for the New York Times from 1955 until his retirement in 2001. Papers in the Annual File, dating from 1955 to 1964, document Lewis’s reporting for the Washington, D.C., bureau where he covered the Department of Justice and the Supreme Court and includes files about various justices and Lewis’s notes for the October 1963 and 1964 terms. Other topics treated during his time in Washington are civil rights, reapportionment, and habeas corpus. Also chronicled in the Annual File is Lewis’s tenure as chief of the London, England, bureau from 1965 to 1972. Lewis’s reporting from London varied widely with coverage of politicians such as Harold Wilson and Baron George Alfred Brown and topics such as architecture, Anthony Burgess (writer), the Concorde, and the royal family. The London files also include topics that featured prominently in later columns by Lewis such as, Africa, the Vietnam War, the press, and race relations. Drafts of his “London weekender articles” are filed in Part II of the Writings series.
In 1969 while still in London, Lewis began a column for the New York Times that would later be entitled “At Home Abroad” or “Abroad at Home” (depending on his location) about national and international affairs. In 1973 Lewis returned to the United States, writing the column from his home in Boston. Many of the columns reflected Lewis’s interest in the law and his belief in its importance to a diverse country such as the United States. Lewis brought a liberal perspective to his column on a wide-range of issues such as the energy crisis in the 1970s, immigration, courts, the Supreme Court, the environment (filed as surroundings), capital punishment, the press (especially libel issues), free speech, civil liberties, human rights, terrorism, presidential administrations and elections, the Iran-Contra Affair, Watergate, Latin America, the Middle East, the Vietnam War, Africa, the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, and the unrest in Yugoslavia during the 1990s. Files from 2001 to 2007 reflect Lewis’s interest and thoughts about the reaction of government leaders to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the ensuing wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the War on Terrorism.
The Annual File is arranged by year except for the first group of files from 1949 to 1965 which were filed together as a group by Lewis. Annual File topics "A-L" for 1966 were not received by the Library. Items from a prior Annual File year are occasionally carried over to the next year. Also some years of the Annual File contain background information items that are dated earlier than the year in which they are filed. The majority of the papers in the Annual File were used by Lewis as background research for his reporting and columns. Lewis, however, also traveled to gather information for his articles and columns. The Annual File is replete with trip files, particularly for Africa, the Middle East, and Vietnam, documenting Lewis’s insights. Information relating to his trips is also chronicled in Part II of the Notebooks series.
The Annual File also documents Lewis’s correspondence with an array of individuals including colleagues, Supreme Court justices, judges, lawyers, members of Congress, government officials, academics, entertainers, friends, and the public. The bulk of the correspondence, usually including both incoming and outgoing, features praise by Lewis relating to an achievement by a correspondent or vice-versa. Most of the letters are filed in the miscellaneous folders located after topics in the Annual File. Also documented in the Annual File are invitations and arrangements for social engagements. Correspondents include Russell Baker, Felix Frankfurter, Anna Freud, Henry Kissinger, James Reston, and Arthur Ochs Sulzberger.
The Letters from Readers series in Part II complements the Letters from Readers in Part I. This series includes incoming letters, usually accompanied by Lewis’s outgoing replies. The incoming letters are usually a one-time response to Lewis’s articles and commentary, although the letters do feature recurring correspondents. Topics represented are the Middle East, Cambodia, the Vietnam War, South Africa, abortion, race, immigration, the environment (filed under surroundings by Lewis and his staff), Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton, George W. Bush, and political conflict in Yugoslavia during the 1990s.
The Writings in Part II are comprised chiefly of drafts of Lewis’s “London weekender articles,” and files relating to several of Lewis’s books. Most of the book files pertain to Make No Law: The Sullivan Case and the First Amendment in which Lewis examines the issues of freedom of speech, libel, and the press in the Supreme Court case New York Times v. Sullivan. Other writings by Lewis are located in Part II of the Annual File, especially the byline folders and topical files. Some proposed books and a few books authored by Lewis were also filed in the Annual File by Lewis’s staff. Files pertaining to Gideon’s Trumpet occur throughout the Annual File. Years after its publication, Lewis still received correspondence about the book. Papers in 1979 and 1980 Annual File contain files relating to a movie based on Gideon’s Trumpet.
The Notebooks series documents many of Lewis’s endeavors as a reporter and columnist from 1974 to 1999. The Notebooks from his London bureau tenure, 1965-1972, cover a wide range of topics such as the beginning of the political violence in Northern Ireland, the British entry into the European Economic Community (EEC), the withdrawal of British forces abroad, and the relationship between the United States and Great Britain. The Notebooks include Lewis’s interviews of people from Northern Ireland regarding the Irish Republican Army bombings and the policies of the Democratic Unionists Party. Also represented in the series are the British Parliament’s discussions on withdrawing forces from territories east of Suez and military forces which were a part of the British Army of the Rhine. Other notebooks chronicle the parliamentary discussions about the involvement of the United States in the Vietnam War and the bombing of Cambodia. Notebooks from 1973 to 1999 document mainly Lewis’s many trips to London, Africa, and the Middle East. One 1973 notebook contains notes relating to Watergate.
The Miscellany series consists chiefly of files pertaining to Lewis’s teaching files about legal issues and journalism. The majority of the teaching files document Lewis’s lectures at Harvard Law School, Columbia University, and Yale University. This series also includes appointment books, photographs, and a few family papers.
Clippings, correspondence, speeches, reports, press releases, notes, and photographs used in research for Lewis's newspaper columns.
Letters from readers of Lewis's columns, accompanied in most cases by copies of his replies.
Drafts, correspondence, and research files for Gideon's Trumpet and Portrait of a Decade.
Correspondence, memoranda, notebooks and notes, articles and columns by Lewis, reports, interviews, speeches, newsletters, photographs, press releases, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and other material documenting Lewis's professional activities.
Letters from readers of Lewis's columns, usually accompanied by his replies.
Correspondence, drafts of "London weekender" articles, book drafts, notes, letters to the editor, and research material.
Notebooks relating to Lewis's professional activities.
Appointment books and calendars, address files, family papers, notes and jottings, photographs, teaching files, telephone messages, and press credentials.
Transcript of telephone call and a portion of an off-the-record talk.
The collection of Woodbury Lowery (1853-1906) relating to Spanish settlements in the United States spans the years 1517-1803 and consists of bound volumes of material gathered and organized by Woodbury for the preparation of his unfinished history of “Spanish Settlements within the Present Limits of the United States,” containing catalog records and handwritten transcripts of documents concerning California, Florida, Louisiana, New Mexico, and Texas.
The papers of George Kleine (1863-1931) span the years 1886-1946, with the bulk of the material dated between 1900 and 1930. The collection consists primarily of business records including correspondence, financial and legal papers, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material generated by Kleine's various financial ventures in the motion picture industry. The papers are organized into three series: Subject File, Inventories and Lists, and Distribution File.
A variety of material in the Subject File documents the early history of the motion picture industry. There are patent papers for some of the first projection equipment, legal documents from court suits, and correspondence of major producers, distributors, and exhibitors.
The extent of Kleine's involvement in the industry is evident from files on corporations that comprise a large portion of the Subject File. In addition to papers relating to companies that Kleine either owned or was associated with, such as Kleine Optical Company, Kalem Company, and United Theatre Equipment Corporation, there are papers for Eastman Kodak Company, Biograph Company, Essanay Film Manufacturing Co., and Famous Players-Lasky Corporation.
Kleine's relationship with the Thomas A. Edison enterprises is documented in a file on Edison and in correspondence with Thomas A. Edison, Inc. Kleine made extensive use of Edison's “Conquest Film” series, which was especially designed for use in schools, churches, and civic organizations. Kleine was also a member with Thomas A. Edison, Inc., and other firms in the first motion picture trust, the Motion Picture Patents Company, and its distributing arm, the General Film Company, in which Kleine served as vice president and later president. There are substantial files for this venture. The papers also document the trust's fall from power following a suit against it by the Greater New York Film Rental Company. The particulars of this suit and other legal entanglements are detailed in files on litigation and Motion Picture Patents Company litigation.
Both the Subject File and Distribution File series document Kleine's efforts to establish a non-theatrical film distribution system. His aim to provide wholesome and instructional films is evident in the titles of subject files: “better and highbrow film movements,” non-theatrical films,” “educational films,” “educational distribution to universities,” and “educational institutions.” In correspondence with William H. Dudley, chief of the Bureau of Visual Instruction of the University of Wisconsin and organizer of the National Academy of Visual Instruction, Kleine discusses his proposals for ensuring the moral content of film subjects. In the Distribution File series is evidence of his system for distributing films to schools, churches, and community organizations through state universities.
The importation of foreign films consumed a significant part of Kleine's professional interests beginning in 1903. Kleine eventually became the largest importer of foreign films in the United States and Canada. In the Subject File is correspondence with foreign film companies such as Ambrosio (Societá Anonima Ambrosio), Cines (Societá Italiana Cines), and Eclipse (Société Générale des Cinématographers). Among the foreign films featured are The Last Days of Pompeii, Julius Caesar, and the spectacular motion picture, Quo Vadis? Kleine discontinued importing films after the start of World War I, but correspondence in the 1920s with Alfred Bourget, his representative in France, reveals a continuing interest in the subject.
Other topics in the collection that reflect on the early history of the film trade include files on censorship, copyright, prize fights, and World War I.
Though brief in size, the Inventories and Lists series and Distribution File series provide an overview of the most popular or sought-after film releases for the periods covered. Together with subject files on banks, branches, distribution, finances, and historical material, they give a detailed picture of the film distribution system for which Kleine is best known.
Correspondence, financial and legal papers, clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Lists and inventories of film titles, release schedules, prints, negatives, and other material with related correspondence.
Correspondence, financial records, and other items relating to the distribution of motion pictures.
The papers of Elizabeth Severn (1879-1959) and Margaret Severn (1901-1997) span the years 1880-1994, with the bulk of the material dating from 1910 to 1992. The collection is in two parts. The part processed in 2013 is focused on Elizabeth Severn's activities as a psychotherapist. The 2018 addition consists primarily of material related to dancer Margaret Severn, Elizabeth Severn's daughter. The collection contains correspondence, writings, photographs, printed matter, sketches, and digital files consisting of two video documentaries, edited correspondence, and draft writings. The digital files are related to Margaret Severn.
In the first part of the collection, focused on Elizabeth Severn, the correspondence is almost entirely incoming letters, mostly from patients of Severn. There are also some carbon copy letters written by World War II American Field Service volunteers giving descriptions of wartime activities and postwar Germany. Other correspondents include William Beebe and H. Halliday Sparling. Also of interest are the notes made during lectures and seminars by Paul Federn and Robert Waelder. Although Elizabeth Severn and her daughter Margaret maintained a long correspondence, Elizabeth Severn's portion is not represented. Margaret, reportedly, in accordance with her mother's wishes, burned her mother's letters in 1986. Elizabeth Severn's speeches and writings files include drafts of three unpublished books as well as a set of typescript essays and speeches. The printed matter includes publicity material for Elizabeth Severn's psychotherapist career. The leaflets and cards advertise her lectures or her availability for therapy sessions and document her travels. Newspaper clippings concern Severn lecture appearances, news about psychoanalysis, and clippings of people who were close acquaintances or patients of Severn. Reference copies of some photographs transferred to the Prints and Photographs Division, including those with substantial writing on the back, have been kept with the papers. Photographs include travel pictures, snapshots, and portraits of Elizabeth Severn, as well as photographs of friends, family, and patients, including a group of photographs of Severn with her analyst Sándor Ferenczi and his wife, Gizella Ferenczi.
The 2018 addition is substantially larger than the original collection. Material concerning Elizabeth Severn in the addition includes addressed envelopes tracking her travels and residency changes from 1907 to 1935, received correspondence, writings, and miscellaneous documents and printed matter. The bulk of the 2018 addition consists of family correspondence: Margaret Severn's letters to her mother and grandmother (Amma). In her responses to her mother's letters, information can be gleaned about Elizabeth Severn's activities, travels, opinions, and her ongoing psychoanalytic relationship with Sándor Ferenczi.
Margaret's letters to her mother and grandmother provide a detailed description of her dance career and her personal life from 1919 to 1939. She often wrote daily letters and was surprisingly frank with her mother concerning all aspects of her life including sexual activity. Margaret Severn performed at the highest professional level of the dance world in the United States and Europe. Trained as a ballet dancer when there were no ballet companies in the United States, she spent years performing in vaudeville, cabarets, and in the New York theater. In 1932 she moved to Paris and danced ballet in a professional world dominated by Russian émigrés. Over the years, she danced with many of the top dancers and choreographers of her time, and her letters provide an inside view of the world of dance from 1920 to 1939. Dancers, choreographers, musicians, and impresarios who worked with Margaret Severn, often appearing multiple times over the years, and who figure in her letters are many but include the following: Luigi Albertieri, Agnes De Mille, Michel Fokine, Ota Gygi, Eugene Iskoldoff, Kurt Jooss, Bronislava Nijinska, Ida Rubinstein, Ruth St. Denis, and Alexander Steinert. An abortion in April 1925, fully described in the letters, was the result of her 1924-1925 affair with Hungarian violinist and fellow vaudeville performer, Ota Gygi.
Margaret Severn had her first major critical acclaim in 1920 when she performed in the Greenwich Village Follies using masks created by artist Wladyslaw T. Benda. After the success this performance, Benda taught Severn how to make her own masks for dance performances. Her mask dances remained a signature performance piece throughout her dance career. Two small masks of Margaret Severn are in the collection. In addition to an active performance schedule, Severn opened the Dancers' Club at 347 W. 56th Street in Manhattan (1930-1932). The club provided living accommodations, mail and laundry services, practice facilities, an employment register, and social activities for professional dancers, teachers, and students. Margaret sometimes included newsletters from the club with her correspondence to her mother. In 1932, Margaret traveled to Budapest to visit her mother and subsequently settled in Paris. She danced with Bronislava Nijinska's ballet company in 1932 and with Ida Rubinstein's company for the 1934 Paris Opera House production that included the premiere of Stravinsky's Perséphone. Her letters to her mother provide lively backstage descriptions of rehearsals and performances. Margaret Severn performed as principal dancer and ballet master for a traveling company called the Ballet Russes de Paris, 1935-1937. The company participated, with Margaret Severn as lead dancer, in the July 1936 outdoor spectacle in Nymphenburg Park, Munich, Germany, called "Nacht der Amazonen" (Night of the Amazons). For the performance, Severn was kidnapped by horseback-riding Cossacks and later saved by Amazons (played by German women) on horseback. "Nacht der Amazonen" was an annual event, 1936-1939.
The letters have many editorial marks, usually in green ink, that were made years later when Margaret Severn was working on her memoir. Envelopes have been inscribed with notes about the contents of the letter. The original writing in the letters and on the envelopes, however, is still legible even with the edits. Although she never completed her memoir, she did publish three articles in Dance Chronicle based on parts of her correspondence. The articles are in the autobiographical writings file. The digital files include her draft memoir and typed and edited transcriptions of many of the letters, including early letters for which the original paper copy is not in the collection. Presumably, the transcriptions of these early letters are edited versions. Margaret Severn was also an artist. In addition to a folder of her sketches, many of her letters are illustrated.
Peter Lipski's two film documentaries on Margaret Severn, Dance Masks: The World of Margaret Severn (1980) and Portrait of an Artist as a Young Woman (1992) are both available as digital files.
The papers of Norman Podhoretz cover the period 1950-1986 and consist of correspondence, subject material, speeches and writings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material. The collection is organized into five series: General Correspondence, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, and Addition.
Norman Podhoretz was educated as a literary critic under such teachers as Lionel Trilling at Columbia University and F. R. Leavis at Cambridge University. Early in his career, Podhoretz was an advocate of left-wing ideology. He was later to break from the predominantly leftist and liberal New York intellectual community and become a leading spokesman for a conservative philosophy, using Commentary as a vehicle for discussing neoconservative ideas. His papers document the development of his career as a writer, editor, and social and political thinker.
Podhoretz throughout his career corresponded with many prominent writers, critics, editors, politicians and other public figures. The bulk of the General Correspondence series is formed from letters in Podhoretz's correspondence files at Commentary that were deemed inappropriate for the magazine's archive maintained by the American Jewish Committee. Letters within the General Correspondence document Podhoretz's involvement in literary and political activities. Among the correspondents are Eldridge Cleaver, Allen Ginsburg, Lillian Hellman, Daniel P.Moynihan, Susan Sontag, Terry Southern, Diana Trilling, and Kurt Vonnegut. There are also letters concerning Podhoretz that were sent as enclosures to him, for example, a letter from Lionel Trilling to Eliot Cohen, then editor-in-chief of Commentary. Although most of the correspondents are represented by only one or two letters, the issues and ambiance of the time are chronicled in these communications.
Topics discussed in the General Correspondence series include censorship of Podhoretz's writing as well as other literary works, endorsement of political candidates, support for political points of view, and discussion of social and cultural issues such as racism and poverty. Podhoretz's philosophical shift can in part be traced through the General Correspondence. Letters related to individual works by him are filed in the Speeches and Writings File series.
Featured in the Subject File is Podhoretz's trip to India, Australia, and Asia in 1973, including a journal containing sketches of people and places encountered in the various countries he visited. His trip to Australia in 1982 to promote The Present Danger is also well documented. Another file in the series concerns Daniel Patrick Moynihan's campaign for the Senate from New York in 1976.
The most extensive series is the Speeches and Writings File including interviews, speeches, undergraduate writings, short stories, articles, and books. Among the undergraduate writings are Podhoretz's notebooks from a course in nineteenth-century British poetry taught by Lionel Trilling. These notebooks are annotated by Trilling. Material from Podhoretz's years at Cambridge includes copies of the English Tripos along with notes, drafts of his thesis on Benjamin Disraeli, and notes from a class on the English moralists. The collection also includes three unpublished short stories written when Podhoretz was in the army.
The Articles subseries in the Speeches and Writings File contains a representative sampling of Podhoretz's literary, social, and political criticism, including a number of unpublished pieces. Drafts, galleys, published copies of articles along with correspondence and research material are often present. Within the Articles file is an expanded version of Podhoretz's thesis on Disraeli that he attempted to have published in Scrutiny in 1953. Included with the essay is F.R. Leavis's critique of the piece. Among the other literary essays in the collection are "Edmund Wilson: The Last of the Patricians," "The Know Nothing Bohemians," "The Adventures of Saul Bellow," "Prurience Subverted, or the Redemption of Candy," "In Defense of Editing," "Camus and His Critics," and "F.R. Leavis: A Reevaluation."
Some of Podhoretz's social and political writings include "Masses, Classes, and Social Criticism," "The New American Majority," and "J'Accuse," along with other articles expounding Podhoretz's neoconservative point of view on subjects such as defense, the Middle East, and Vietnam, most of which appeared in national magazines and newspapers.
Material exists in varying degrees to document the creation, production, and reception of Podhoretz's five published books. In addition to drafts, galleys, and page proofs, the collection includes correspondence from publishers and readers, book reviews, and research material. The correspondence and book reviews impart a sense of how Podhoretz's books were received and how he reacted to the mixed reception he met his works.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, with attachments.
Correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clippings, notes, printed material, and journal.
Typewritten drafts with handwritten annotations, galleys, page proofs, notes, research material and correspondence relating to speeches, interviews, books and other writings by Podhoretz.
Newspaper clippings, printed material, and miscellaneous personal papers.
Correspondence, notes, memoranda, typewritten drafts with handwritten annotations, galleys and page proofs of writings.
Diary, notebooks, general correspondence, interviews and statements, subject files and printed matter.
The papers of Robert Porter Patterson (1891-1952) span the years 1909-1956, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1930 and 1952. The papers are organized into eight series: Correspondence, Legal File, Speech File, Miscellany, Scrapbooks, Under Secretary of War Files, 2023 Addition and Classified. The Correspondence series is further arranged into seven subseries differentiated mostly by chronological spans as compiled and maintained by Patterson before being received by the Library. Additional correspondence can be found in the 2023 Addition series.
The Legal File consists of briefs and memoranda on cases in which Patterson presided as a judge, correspondence concerning the cases, and notes taken or collected by him. Patterson served on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 1930-1939, and on the United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit, 1939-1940. The case material from his judgeships is filed alphabetically according to the type of case and therein alphabetically by name. The collection also contains a file of legal note by Patterson on a variety of subjects. These notes, along with Patterson's law school notebooks, illustrate the intensity of preparation and the care that went into his study of the law. In the Legal File as well is an index to Patterson's legal cases from 1930 to 1939 and memoranda concerning his legal cases from 1939 to 1940.
The Speech File, Scrapbooks, Miscellany, and Under Secretary of War Files are primarily concerned with Patterson's career as a government official. Also present are materials relating to his estate and to Margaret Patterson's donation of the collection to the Library.
The 2023 Addition series consists of outgoing correspondence documenting Patterson's professional activities in the latter years of his career, and speeches and statements given during and after his tenure as secretary of war.
Patterson's career covered a wide variety of interests and activities. His early years, 1891 to 1930, are represented by general correspondence covering the years, 1919-1927, his law school notebooks, 1912-1915, and a diary, 1925. There is no personal material prior to 1919 and none between 1927 and 1930. The only other pre-1930 material is correspondence and other material concerning the Harvard Law School Association that was given to Patterson during his presidency of the organization, 1937-1949.
The files for the years 1930-1940 are primarily concerned with legal matters and Patterson's judicial career. The only personal material from the period is correspondence pertaining principally to New York city and state politics.
The period 1940-1947, when Patterson served in the War Department, is well documented in the collection. As assistant secretary, then under secretary of war, 1940-1945, Patterson's primary responsibility was procurement and supply. Subjects covered in the correspondence, memoranda, and reports for the period include civilian versus military control of the wartime economy, military strategy, projected problems of the postwar world, and the difficulties involved in regulating and controlling a wartime economy. Of special interest is a file on wartime cabinet meetings that Patterson attended as a representative of the War Department.
Patterson's tenure as secretary of war, 1945-1947, is also well documented. Photocopies of his appointment books record in detail his daily activities for the period. Important subjects include cabinet meetings, the postwar settlement in Europe, switching from a wartime economy to a peacetime economy, the demobilization of the American military, and the projected merger of two cabinet departments into the Department of Defense. Patterson was an ardent believer in universal military training. Files on the issue can be found throughout the correspondence and the reports of the 1940s.
After his resignation as secretary of war in 1947, Patterson formed the legal firm of Patterson, Belknap, Webb and Tyler. Topics from the period include, the Marshall Plan, the United Nations, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and the embryonic European Common Market. Patterson served actively on such organizations as the American Association for the United Nations, the American Committee on United Europe, the Atlantic Union Committee, the United States Committee for a United Nations Genocide Convention, the Committee on the Permanent Court of Arbitration, and the United States Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government (1947-1953, the first Hoover Commission). Also covered is Patterson's chairmanship of the Long Island Rail Road Commission and his chairmanship of the American Bar Association Commission on Organized Crime. Of interest as well is a file concerning Francis Joseph Cardinal Spellman and the war claims of the Vatican in the late 1940s. Patterson was a strong supporter of civil rights as evidenced by the file on Freedom House and correspondence with Walter Francis White, executive secretary of the NAACP.
Correspondents in the collection include Henry Harley Arnold, Thurman Wesley Arnold, Bernard M. Baruch, Francis Biddle, Chester Bowles, Nicholas Murray Butler, James F. Byrnes, Benjamin N. Cardozo, Bennett Champ Clark, Mark W. Clark, Lucius D. Clay, James Bryant Conant, Homer S. Cummings, Elmer Holmes Davis, Thomas E. Dewey, James Harold Doolittle, Paul H. Douglas, Hugh Aloysius Drum, David Dubinsky, Allen Dulles, Dwight D. Eisenhower, James A. Farley, James Forrestal, Felix Frankfurter, Philip L. Graham, Erwin N. Griswold, Ernest Gruening, Augustus Noble Hand, Learned Hand, Alger Hiss, Anna Rosenberg Hoffman, Herbert Hoover, Charles Evans Hughes, Philip C. Jessup, Jesse H. Jones, Louis Arthur Johnson, Lyndon B. Johnson, Estes Kefauver, Ernest Joseph King, Julius Klein, Alfred A. Knopf, William S. Knudsen, James McCauley Landis, Herbert H. Lehman, David Eli Lilienthal, Robert A. Lovett, W. G. McAdoo, Douglas MacArthur, Patton Pat McCarran, J. Howard McGrath, George C. Marshall, Sherman Minton, Robert Moses, Donald Marr Nelson, Louis Nizer, William O'Dwyer, George S. Patton (1885-1945), Philip B. Perlman, Howard C. Peterson, Roscoe Pound, Owen J. Roberts, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Kenneth C. Royall, Samuel I. Rosenman, Leverett Saltonstall, Arthur M. Schlesinger (1917-2007), Alexander P. de Seversky, Robert E. Sherwood, Spyros Panagiotes Skouras, H. Alexander Smith, Lawrence E. Spivak, Brehon Burke Somervell, Francis Spellman, Henry L Stimson, Herbert Bayard Swope, Stuart Symington, Harry S. Truman, Millard E. Tydings, Arthur T. Vanderbilt, Tracy S. Voorhees, Robert F. Wagner (1877-1953), Walter Francis White, and Charles Edward Wilson.
Letters sent and received, financial data, memoranda, reports, and printed matter.
Letters sent and received, memoranda, reports, and some printed matter.
Letters sent and received, memoranda, reports, and printed matter.
Letters sent and received, memoranda, reports, and printed matter.
Letters sent, memoranda, reports, and a manuscript.
Letters sent and received, memoranda, reports, and some printed matter.
Briefs, notes, correspondence concerning legal cases, reports, memoranda, opinions, notebooks, and a docket book.
Speeches and radio broadcasts.
Reports, a manuscript, notes, correspondence of Margaret Patterson, guest books, a journal, awards, financial statements, year books, biographical material, clippings, appointment books, and a diary.
Clippings and printed matter.
Subject files.
Bound volumes of outgoing correspondence, documenting Patterson's professional activities in the latter years of his career, and speeches and statements given during and after his tenure as secretary of war.
Correspondence, memoranda, and notes.
The papers of Barry Commoner (1917-2012) span the years 1915-2009, with the bulk of the material dating from 1940 to 1990. The collection documents Commoner's career as a biologist, ecologist, writer, and environmental activist. The papers are organized into seven series: Personal File, Speeches and Writings File, Correspondence, Subject File, Organizations File, with a 1990 Addition and a 2019 Addition. Researchers should keep in mind that the additions are sizeable with many repetitions of file names and folder headings from the original accession.
Commoner, one of the founders of the environmental movement and a political activist, was a professor of plant physiology and botany for many years at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri. He researched and published extensively on the tobacco mosaic virus (for which he received the 1953 Newcomb Cleveland Prize) and the role of free radicals. In addition to his purely scientific publications, Commoner wrote books on environmentalism and the social aspects of science for the general public. Indeed, providing scientific knowledge to the general public was the core of his political activism.
Commoner’s political activism began with opposition to aboveground nuclear weapons testing and the danger of radioactive fallout. In 1957, in collaboration with Linus Pauling, Commoner wrote and distributed a letter calling for an end to nuclear testing. Signed by thousands of scientists, it was presented to the president of the United States and to the United Nations. In 1958 Commoner helped found the Greater St. Louis Committee for Nuclear Information (CNI). The Baby Tooth Survey, conducted by CNI with Commoner as one of the leaders, collected over two hundred thousand baby teeth to measure the rising levels of radioactive strontium-90 in children’s bodies, the result of fallout that had spread across the country from nuclear weapons testing in Nevada. The Baby Tooth Survey attracted wide public attention, generating opposition to the nuclear tests and influencing the signing of the 1963 Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. Commoner considered this the first victory of the environmental movement.
The core of Commoner’s philosophy of environmental activism was already at the heart of the Baby Tooth Survey: a belief that scientists have a moral obligation to explain science to the general public so the public, not just scientists and politicians, can make informed decisions about science policy. He called this the “science information movement.” The other cornerstone of his environmental thinking was his conviction that unless the means of production, especially energy production, changed, environmental degradation could not be stemmed, thus requiring political solutions. With the goal of establishing a new, progressive, environmentally-engaged political party, Commoner ran as the presidential Nominee of the Citizens Party in 1980.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The Personal File primarily consists of a general correspondence file and telephone logs along with agendas, appointment books, diaries, and notebooks.
The Speeches and Writings File includes drafts and published copies of his scientific writings, drafts and reviews of his books intended for the general public, and items documenting speaking engagements.
The Correspondence series consists of professional correspondence, received and sent, and includes some drafts of outgoing correspondence.
The Subject File contains material identified by topic, personal name, material type, or name of organization.
The Organizations File includes only those organizations that Commoner either founded, had leadership positions in, or was otherwise heavily involved with.
The 1990 Addition is arranged into six subseries: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Research File, Photographs and Slides, and Miscellany.
The 2019 Addition contains material received in 2011 and 2014. This addition is arranged into four subseries and an oversize: a Clippings File, Research File, Speeches and Writings, and Subject File.
The Personal File is primarily comprised of a general correspondence file and telephone logs along with other material documenting Commoner’s activities and appointments. The telephone logs include notes about the content of conversations or messages. The general correspondence is the bulk of the series. For Commoner's professional correspondence, consult the Correspondence series.
Material types include correspondence, telephone logs, agendas, appointment books, diaries, itineraries, and notebooks.
The Speeches and Writings File includes drafts and published copies of his scientific writings, drafts and reviews of his books intended for the general public, items documenting speaking engagements in the chronological file, and related correspondence and production material for publication projects. The book file includes drafts for his bestselling books The Closing Circle (1971), Making Peace with the Planet (1990), The Poverty of Power (1976), and Science and Survival (1966). The files for his scientific articles include research notes, draft writings, and published copies. Both the 1990 Addition and the 2019 Addition have a Speeches and Writings subseries containing related material.
Material types include draft writings, published articles, book reviews, correspondence, production material, and reports.
Professional correspondence, received and sent, including some drafts of outgoing correspondence.
Material types include correspondence with occasional attachments of printed matter.
The Subject File contains material identified by topic, personal name, material type, or name of organization. (Note that select organization files are in the Organizations series.) Major topics include biology and botany, civil defense, ecology, environmental pollution, energy, genetics, Italy’s dioxin accident at Seveso, nuclear technologies, peaceful uses of atomic energy, population growth, radiation and radioactive fallout, and the Vietnam War. Margaret Mead, Ralph Nader, Linus Pauling, and Albert Szent-Gyorgi have files in this series. Among the many organizations represented are the United States Office of Naval Research and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission.
Material types include correspondence, reports, printed matter, news clippings, research notes, files of published scientific articles, and research notebooks.
Organizations that Commoner either founded, had leadership positions in, or was heavily involved with. This series also includes material from his faculty years at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.
Material types include correspondence, reports, committee papers, speeches and events material, financial records, and other related material.
The files primarily pertain to the AAAS committees in which Commoner was most active: the Committee on the Social Aspects of Science, the Committee on Science in the Promotion of Human Welfare, and the Committee on Environmental Alterations. These particular AAAS committees worked to engage scientists in public policy issues such as radioactive fallout from nuclear weapons testing, air quality, and energy consumption. Also present are files on annual meetings, the board of directors, budgets, and AAAS publications. Prominent correspondents include Chauncey Leake, Margaret Mead, Ward Pigman, and Dael Wolfle. More files pertaining to the AAAS are in both the 1990 and 2019 Additions.
Material types include correspondence, draft writings, committee reports and publications, financial records, minutes of meetings, and printed matter.
Commoner was the founder and director of the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems (CBNS), an environmental health sciences research center created in 1966 and based at Washington University, where Commoner was a faculty member. CBNS moved to Queens College, City University of New York in 1981. Queens College changed its name to the Barry Commoner Center for Health and the Environment in 2015. More files pertaining to CBNS are in both the 1990 and 2019 Additions.
Material types include correspondence, committee and task force records, grant and financial material, research reports, and speeches and writings.
After the passage of the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in 1963, the Committee for Nuclear Information expanded its mission to include other environmental policy issues and changed its name to the Committee for Environmental Information. Commoner continued in a leadership position. The file includes material on nuclear testing and the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, and their publications C.E. Eye, Environment, and Scientist and Citizen.
Material types include correspondence, committee and board of directors records, financial records, and printed matter.
Organized in 1958 by a group of scientists, including Commoner, and concerned citizens in St. Louis, Missouri, who believed the public should have accurate information about nuclear energy and radioactive fallout from nuclear weapons testing. Material from the Baby Tooth Survey and the biological effects of radioactive fallout is included here. The organization was one of many committees around the country whose shared name was the Committee for Nuclear Information (CNI). More files pertaining to this organization and the publication Nuclear Information are in the 2019 Addition.
Material types include correspondence, financial records, grant proposals, minutes of meetings, press releases, printed material, and testimonies.
Founded in 1963 by Commoner and others as a coordinating body for twenty-three regional Committees for Nuclear/Environmental Information. Over time, the affiliates ceased operating and SIPI inherited the mission of delivering accurate scientific information to the public on a wide range of scientific issues affecting public policy. More files pertaining to SIPI are in the 2019 Addition.
Material types include correspondence, newsletters, press releases, meeting agendas and minutes, and financial material.
Items from Commoner's faculty membership at the university with a focus on the activities of the botany and other science departments.
Material types include correspondence, reports, grants, financial material, course outlines and papers, and faculty and university communications.
The 1990 Addition is arranged into seven subseries: General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Research File, Photographs and Slides, Miscellany and Oversize.
Correspondence
Articles and papers, a book file, speeches and related printed material, and an untitled manuscript.
The Subject file includes material on a variety of scientic and environmental topics, as well as other topics such as patents, travel, grant applications, and files on organizations such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems (CBNS).
Material types include correspondence, printed matter, committee papers, and other miscellaneous papers.
Charts, graphs, computer printouts, and other research data.
Photographs, slides, and transparencies. Broken glass slides are restricted.
Awards and certificates, clippings, physiology notes, telephone logs, printed matter, and other miscellaneous items.
Computer printouts and demographic data from Commoner's research file and a set of transparencies from the photographs and slides file.
The 2019 Addition contains material received in 2011 and 2014. This addition is arranged into four subseries and oversize. Material from organizations represented in the Organizations File of the original collection is placed in the Subject File.
Newspaper and magazine clippings about Commoner from a wide array of publications. Clippings were removed from binders, kept in original order, and generally photocopied for preservation.
Notebooks, notes, and drafts of scientific research projects and studies by Commoner.
The Speeches and Writings subseries includes book drafts, a chronological file of published articles, speeches, testimonies, and related material. The chronological file reveals Commoner's shifting interests over time and includes a mix of writings on scientific research, public policy, and political issues. The book drafts and reviews of Commoner's books include Air Pollution, Making Peace with the Planet, and The Poverty of Power. The speaking engagements file contains correspondence, publicity, itineraries, travel arrangements, and sometimes speech texts or notes and is chronologically arranged. The speech, conference papers, and testimonies file is also arranged chronologically but only contains the written texts.
Material types include drafts and published writings, speech texts, related correspondence and printed matter, itineraries, and travel material.
The Subject File holds organization files, biographical material, including items from Commoner's military service, a file on Linus Pauling and their work together opposing nuclear weapons testing, documents from Commoner's consultant work concerning the dioxin accident in Seveso, Italy, photographs and portraits of Commoner, and other topical material. The organizations represented in the Subject File that were central to Commoner's career include the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), Center for the Biology of Natural Systems (CBNS), the Citizens Party, the Greater St. Louis Citizens' Committee for Nuclear Information, and the Scientists' Institute for Public Information (SIPI).
Material types include correspondence, biographical material, digital content, photographs, reports, and printed matter.
Items from awards and honors received by Commoner and from a celebration of his eightieth birthday. Also included is a membership list for the Citizens Party, the progressive political party co-founded by Commoner.
The records of the French and American Claims Commission span the years 1861-1884. The commission was established by a treaty between the governments of France and the United States in 1880 to resolve outstanding claims by French citizens residing in the United States for property confiscated or destroyed during the Civil War. The records include correspondence, petitions, inventories, depositions, lists, certificates, and receipts. The bulk of the correspondence is conducted in French among non-naturalized French residents, the French consul in New Orleans, and the French agent appointed to represent the claims before the commission. Correspondence from American officials is in English. The collection is arranged in two series: Claimant Petitions and Miscellany.
The Claimant Petitions series is composed of two groups of case files arranged alphabetically by the name of the claimant or occasionally the name of an attorney or ship. The bulk of the first and largest group of cases dates from 1862 to 1865 and contains petitions and related documentation written by native French residents to the French consul in New Orleans, the French minister in Washington, and the Ministère des Affaires Étrangères in Paris. Many of the letters and inventories date from the spring and summer of 1862 soon after Union forces captured New Orleans and launched a major western offensive in Mississippi. The majority of petitions are from French residents of Louisiana, particularly New Orleans. Also included are petitions from Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Mississippi, Missouri, and Texas. This group of case files was turned over to an agent assigned to represent French claims before the commission in 1880. A second case file was created by the agent and the commission in 1880.
The petitions provide insight into the Union Army's western offensive and its occupation of New Orleans. The vast majority of petitions concern the confiscation or destruction of property, including warehoused cotton, shop inventories, restaurant provisions, ships and ship cargoes, homes and personal effects, crops, livestock, wagons, and farm buildings. Some petitioners were Union prisoners suspected of fighting with or supplying the Confederate army. Petitioners' letters often describe the circumstances surrounding their loss of property or imprisonment. Also included are responses from American civil and military officials at times refuting the claims in some detail. Included are letters from Nathaniel Prentiss Banks, Benjamin F. Butler, William Henry Seward, and Edwin McMasters Stanton.
Apart from the events of the war, the files reveal much about the social composition and experiences of a transatlantic French community. Many of the letters contain biographical information, including date and place of birth, date of immigration, occupation, and occasionally family data. Detailed inventories shed considerable light on the economic activities and personal effects of the claimants.
Unnumbered folders filed at the end of the first group of petitions include petitions by groups and claims not covered by the commission, such as requests for compensation for damages caused by Confederate forces and for emancipated enslaved people. Also included among the unnumbered folders are protests from French residents of Bagdad, a town in Mexico near the port of Matamoros. According to its residents, the town was attacked and pillaged by United States soldiers in January 1866.
The Miscellany series contains legation correspondence, lists of claims, notification of attorney representation, powers of attorney, proofs of citizenship, and receipts for documents returned to petitioners.
Case files of correspondence, petitions, inventories, depositions, certificates, and printed matter.
Legation correspondence, lists and schedules, printed forms, and receipts.
The papers of Ralph E. Griswold (1894-1981) span the years 1940-1968 and consist entirely of material relating to an unpublished work, “A Biographical History of Garden Art, a Series of Illustrated Biographical Monographs on the People Who Had a Creative Influence on the Progress of Garden Art from Its Beginnings,” that he produced as the first senior research fellow at the Dumbarton Oaks Project, Harvard University, from 1956 to 1958. Griswold was a landscape architect prominent for his designs in public parks and memorials and as a consultant on historic preservation projects. Included in the collection in addition to a typewritten copy and an unbound print copy of the illustrated history is a revised version of the study as well as correspondence, lectures, research material, travel notes, printed matter, maps, and photographs connected to the project.
The collection of Louisiana Miscellany, spanning the years 1724-1837, consists of correspondence, reports, legal papers, maps, sketches, financial matter, a surveyor’s notebook, and other material relating to the early history of Louisiana under French, Spanish, and American control. Among the personal as well as official documents are letters of Charles Laveau Trudeau, vital statistics from family Bibles and tombstones, papers relating to the purchase of Louisiana by the United States, and a manuscript copy of the French explorer Jean-Baptiste Bénard de la Harpe’s Journal historique de l ́etablissement des François á Louisiane.
The papers of Philip Lee Phillips (1857-1924) span the years 1885-1921 and consist of correspondence, writings, printed matter, and other personal material focused on Phillips’s work and career at the Library of Congress as a cartographer and chief of the Library’s Map Division. Almost entirely letters received, the correspondence is mostly from government officials, libraries and cultural institutions, bookstores, and publishers pertaining to his atlases and bibliographies and to his employment at the Library of Congress. Prominent among the correspondents is Librarian of Congress Herbert Putnam.
The papers of Lewis Varick Frissell (who was known throughout his life as Varick Frissell) span the years 1917-1970, with the greatest portion of the material dated 1925-1931. The diary, correspondence, writings, and business papers of these years reflect a short but intense career of arctic exploration, writing, and documentary and feature film making. Earlier papers are Frissell's juvenilia (mostly fiction), and later papers are those of his family. The collection is organized by type of material.
Frissell's expedition to the Unknown River region of Labrador in 1925 resulted in his discovery of the Lower Twin Falls of that river and in the first photograph of the Grand Falls on the Hamilton River (now Churchill River and Falls). The journey is documented in the diary, correspondence, and articles in the collection. This and subsequent explorations in Labrador earned Frissell election as a Fellow of the Royal Geographic Society and as a member of the Explorer's Club.
Much of the general correspondence and most of the business papers, as well as the scripts and related papers in the collection, pertain to the two feature films produced by Frissell. The Great Arctic Seal Hunt (1928), a silent documentary, was written, produced, and photographed by Frissell while he worked as a sealer off the Labrador coast in 1927. The Viking (1931), the first feature-length sound film produced entirely on location, was written and produced by Frissell and was directed by George Melford. The writings file in the collection includes synopses for both films and scripts, continuity notes, and a negative film record for The Viking. Distribution contracts and agreements, schedules of showings for both films, and copies of correspondence between third parties about these arrangements are included in the business papers.
In addition to the papers related to motion pictures, the writings contain numerous articles on Labrador and the Arctic, reflecting Frissell's interest in the promotion and development of the region. Other writings include Frissell's fictional pieces and his poetry.
The largest sequence of general correspondence is between Frissell and Sir Wilfred Thomason Grenfell and his philanthropic organization, the International Grenfell Association. Grenfell, with whom Frissell had stayed on his first and on many later visits to the North, was a well-known medical missionary to the Eskimos of Labrador. Other prominent correspondents are Robert Joseph Flaherty, the noted documentarist, and George Allan England, whose story "Vikings of the Ice" Frissell adapted for The Viking.
Family correspondence in the papers contains letters to and from Frissell and his father, Lewis Fox Frissell, regarding Frissell's plans for and experiences on his northern journeys. A large portion of the correspondence of Frissell's father relates to the search for Frissell that was instituted during the spring of 1931, after the ship on which he was retaking some scenes for The Viking exploded. Frissell was never found, but the search for him is closely chronicled in telegrams and letters, as well as newspaper clippings in the subject file and in scrapbooks.
The much later, 1965-1970, correspondence of Toni Frissell in the family correspondence reflects her attempts to ascertain and publicize the facts of her brother's career. Several of these letters contain enclosures that are copies of Frissell's correspondence with his lawyers and with the Royal Geographic Society.
The papers of James Guthrie Harbord (1866-1947) span the years 1886-1938, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1917-1919. The collection consists of correspondence, personal diary, confidential cables, administrative memoranda of General John J. Pershing, records of conversations, clippings, scrapbooks, operational maps, barrage charts, sketches, a portrait, records of the United States Army 2nd Division, a portrait, translations of war diaries of the German army, and other papers pertaining to Harbord's career in the United States Army. Featured are Harbord’s service as Pershing's chief of staff during World War I; as commander of a marine brigade during the battle of Chateau-Thierry, France, in 1918; commander of the 2nd Division in the Soissons offensive; and commander of the American Expeditionary Forces Service of Supply, 1918-1919. Also documented is Harbord’s service as chief of the American Military Mission to Armenia in 1919 as well as his postings prior to World War I, especially as assistant chief of the Philippine Constabulary. The papers are organized by topic or type of material.
Subjects include political and administrative issues within the military, Newton Diehl Baker's activities as secretary of war during World War I, and the relationship between Harbord and Baker until the latter’s death in 1938. Secretary Baker’s two visits to Europe, one during the war in 1918 and one in 1919 while the Peace Conference was in session at Paris, are briefly described, with accounts by Harbord on his conversations with the secretary. Contained in a volume of Harbord-Pershing correspondence are copies of Pershing’s administrative memoranda as well as Harbord’s own letters and communications. A volume of personal miscellany contains a note from J. C. Grew, enclosing to Harbord a ticket of admission to the Salle des Glaces in the Palace at Versailles, to witness the signing of the treaty of pace with Germany on June 28, 1919.
Correspondents in addition to Baker and Pershing include Harry Hill Bandholtz, Tasker Howard Bliss, Jean Degoutte, Earl Douglas Haig, W. W. Harts, Herbert Hoover, Hugh S. Johnson, Peyton Conway March, Frank Ross McCoy, Frank McIntyre, John McAuley Palmer, Philippe Pétain, Theodore Roosevelt, William H. Taft, and Leonard Wood.
Letters sent and received. Vol. 1 includes a typewritten diary of a trip by Harbord through parts of Russia and Europe, June 2, 1906- Sept. 8, 1906. The correspondence is arranged in chronologically. Included are letters from Leonard Wood, John J. Pershing, William H. Taft,and Frank McIntryre. The largest body of correspondence is with Harry Hill Bandholtz.
Scrapbook containing newspaper and magazine clippings, original letters, commissions, certificates, orders, etc.
Congratulatory letters and official notices on the promotions of Harbord. Arranged alphabetically.
Scrapbook containing pictures, memoranda, menus, programs, invitations, etc.
Preface, dated Dec. 1936, by Eleanor Kay Abrams. Included are letters or telegrams from Tasker Howard Bliss, John McAuley Palmer, John J. Pershing, and others. A typewritten copy of Newton Diehl Baker’s letter of Feb. 25, 1919 constitutes the introduction. Letters arranged alphabetically with index at the beginning.
Letters, telegrams, memoranda exchanged by John J. Pershing and Harboard. Harbord’s letters being for the most part in the form of carbon copies.
Letters, telegrams, and related matter exchanged by Baker and Harbord. Harbord’s letters being for the most part in the form of typewritten copies signed. The last letter, Jan. 12, 1938, is from Mrs. Baker.
Six books of cables, bound as one volume. Largely from Pershing to adjutant general, War Department, or the adjutant general for the chief of staff, secretary of war, etc. (marked “3rd copy”)
Largely addressed to Pershing Amexforces (marked “3rd copy”) Five books of cables bound as one volume.
Carbon copies of orders sent by messenger, summaries of intelligence, resumes of activities, handwritten reports and memoranda, signed papers. Arranged in general chronological order with maps at the front of the volume. Includes General Order No. 1, June 6, 1919, mistakenly bound as part of this volume.
Operation maps, barrage charts and sketches. Index at front.
Typewritten material. A foreword, June 20, 1930, bearing the heading “Second Division Historical Section, Army War College, Washington, D.C.,” signed by Captain C.O. Mattfeldt, explains the preparation and handling of the material in the volume. Includes a word of appreciation to the Deutsches Reicharchiv, Potsdam, Germany, for its courtesy in making available to the section the original war dairies of the German units that engaged the 2nd Division.
Typewritten material “copied literally from original documents and most carefully compared,” according to a note at the front of vol. 1 by Brigadier General Preston Brown. This series was done under the direction of Captain C. O. Mattfeldt.
Personal telegrams sent, 1918-1919. Carbon copies. Arranged chronologically.
Pictures, clippings, menus, articles, etc. Pocket of loose material at the back of the volume.
Map room G-3, General Headquarters. Includes loose material consisting of maps, commissions, a portrait, a report, and a memorial of women of Armenia to Harbord, 1919.
The papers of Nathan W. Daniels (1836-1867), spanning the years 1861-1867, consist of a handwritten diary with photographs, illustrations, and newspaper clippings mounted throughout the text in three volumes. Included are a typescript of summaries and transcripts of the diaries by C. P. Weaver, who donated the collection, and a scrapbook of newspaper clippings.
In volume one, Daniels describes his Civil War service with an African-American regiment, the U.S. Army 2nd Native Guard Infantry Regiment, chiefly while stationed at Ship Island, Mississippi, and his time in New Orleans during the summer and fall of 1863. In volume two, Daniels discusses military, political, and social affairs in Washington, D.C., during his years in the capital, 1863-1865. Subjects include civil rights, the creation of the Freedmen's Bureau (U.S. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands) in March 1864, radical Republicans, and the theater. Volume three was written primarily by Daniels's wife, the Spiritualist medium Cora Hatch (Cora L. V. Richmond). Topics include the Freedmen's Bureau, speaking engagements at African-American churches in Washington, D.C., a visit with her family in Cuba, N.Y., and a lecture tour of the Midwest.
An addition to the Nathan W. Daniels collection consists of a scrapbook of newspaper clippings, 1863-1867, probably assembled by Daniels or his wife. The scrapbook complements the topics and events chronicled in the diaries of Daniels and Hatch. The articles were usually written by Daniels under the pseudonym "Viator." They include references to either him or his wife or pertain to subjects of interest to the couple, such as African-American military service during the Civil War, the condition of freedpeople after the war, Reconstruction, and spiritualism, particularly Washington, D.C.
The papers of Rosa Louise Parks (1913-2005) span the years 1866-2006, with the bulk of the material dating from 1955 to 2000. The collection documents many aspects of Parks's private life and public activism on behalf of civil rights for African Americans. An array of personal papers contains family papers, correspondence, writings, notes, statements, event programs and invitations, tributes, medals, photographs, printed matter, books owned by her, and a variety of employment, financial, health, and residential records that reveal much about the material conditions of her life. Events surrounding her arrest in 1955 for violating Montgomery, Alabama, segregation laws by refusing to give up her seat to a white passenger, as well as the subsequent Montgomery Bus Boycott, are described in many of her writings, notes, and correspondence from 1955 to 1956. The collection is arranged in eleven series: Family Papers; General Correspondence; Subject File; Writings, Notes, and Statements; Events; Resolutions and Other Honors; Miscellany; Printed Matter; Books Owned by Parks; Medals; and Oversize.
The Family Papers open a window into some of Rosa Parks's most important relationships. The series contains her correspondence with family members, most notably her husband Raymond A. Parks, her mother Leona McCauley, and her brother Sylvester McCauley. Correspondence with her husband and mother contains the largest number of letters written by her in the collection. Her letters to Raymond Parks date between 1957 and 1958 when she was living and working at the Hampton Institute in Virginia and he was living in Detroit. Written in the aftermath of the bus boycott, the letters reveal the personal toll those events took on both of them and the emotional hardship of their separation. Rosa Parks's back-and-forth correspondence with her mother Leona McCauley is more voluminous and spans several decades, largely from the late 1940s to McCauley's death in 1979. The letters were written during periods when they were apart from one another, most significantly between 1956 and 1958 during Rosa Parks's speaking tours and employment at the Hampton Institute. James McCauley, Parks's father, was not a consistent part of her life, a circumstance he reflects on in a letter written to her in 1950. Letters by Sylvester McCauley largely concern his efforts to convince his sister to move to Detroit. Correspondence with extended family consists of letters from nieces, nephews, aunts, cousins, and other family members. Also included in the series are other family papers that shed further light on the lives of Parks's husband, mother, father, and brother. Raymond A. Parks's papers include several letters from friends and acquaintances, as well as employment records, barber licenses, photographs, certificates, Masonic dues books, and receipts, including one from their move to Detroit in 1957. Among Leona McCauley's papers is an exchange of letters in 1956 with writer and political activist Edita Morris. Some of Sylvester McCauley's papers relate to his military service in World War II.
The General Correspondence series is arranged in four files: an alphabetical file, a chronological file, greeting cards, and letters and drawings from children. The alphabetical file contains letters from prominent individuals and those who played a significant role in Parks's life. Among them are Johnnie Rebecca Carr, a prominent member of Montgomery's civil rights movement; Septima Poinsette Clark of the Highlander Folk School; Virginia Foster Durr, a white civil rights advocate living in Montgomery; and Fred D. Gray who represented Parks after her arrests in 1955 and 1956. Also included is a note from civil rights leader Audley Moore, better known as Queen Mother Moore. A postcard written by Martin Luther King, Jr., while traveling in Europe in 1957 was kept by Parks in a keepsake portfolio that is currently filed in the Miscellany series. The postcard was transferred to the alphabetical correspondence file during processing. Letters signed "Galatas" are from a childhood friend living in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The alphabetical file features several letters written by Parks in 1956-1957, including one to "Anne," possibly Anne Braden, and another to Jessica Mitford, both of which describe events during the Montgomery Bus Boycott.
A chronological file of largely incoming correspondence spans the years 1948-2006, but is more heavily weighted toward the last decades of Parks's life. The earliest correspondence in the 1940s and 1950s contains invitations to weddings and graduations, but also letters from friends and others, some of which make reference to civil rights issues. Later correspondence is composed principally of letters from organizations, event planners, some friends and acquaintances, and private individuals who wrote to express their admiration for her. Many of these letters contain requests for her to appear at events, to grant permission to quote from her interviews and writings, and to comment on scripts and other writings sent to her by the authors. A large file of greeting cards contains well wishes sent by friends and the public on her birthday, holidays, and during her periodic illnesses. Letters from school children, often illustrated, convey endearing, unselfconscious expressions of admiration.
The Subject File focuses more narrowly on Parks's affiliation with several organizations and institutions, her participation in major civil rights events, and various efforts to honor her. Material on her institutional memberships ranges from the Masonic Order of Eastern Star to St. Matthew Church in Detroit. Many of the programs from her home church contain her notes and annotations. Included among the material from the Highlander Folk School is a 1963 flyer condemning it as "a communist training school" and reprinting an often-reproduced photograph of Parks, Martin Luther King, Jr., and others at the school's twenty-fifth anniversary in 1957. Files are also featured from leading civil rights organizations including the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. Notable among the major civil rights events documented in the file is the Montgomery Bus Boycott. Most of this material dates from the boycott itself and includes draft instructions to car-pool drivers and passengers written in Parks's hand and a Montgomery Fair department store date book for 1955 that Parks used as a notebook during 1956. In it are lists of names, including drivers during the boycott, as well as notes and reflections during that critical year. These items suggest the active role she played in helping to organize the boycott. Other material on the boycott includes a series of typescripts of writings and interviews by Aubrey Willis Williams, most of which are annotated and corrected by Parks. Interview transcripts consist of those between Williams and Martin Luther King, Jr., Edgar Daniel Nixon, and Parks. Articles and a series of chronologies, most of which are attributed to Williams and annotated by Parks, concern Parks's arrest, the subsequent bus boycott, and race relations in the South in general. Material relating to the Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom in 1957 includes advice to her from Bayard Rustin. Ephemera documents her participation in other key events and includes a copy of the first organizing manual for the March on Washington in 1963 and her name tag and identity card from the Mississippi Freedom Summer Project in 1964 and the Poor People's Campaign in 1968. Also explored in the Subject File are efforts to honor Parks, among them the creation of two national committees, the renaming of a Detroit street in her honor, the establishment of a scholarship named for her, and the awarding of the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1996 and Congressional Gold Medal in 1999. A small file stemming from her work in Congressman John Conyers's Detroit office and files from the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development, an organization founded by her to promote youth development and civil rights education, round out the series.
Rosa Parks's Writings, Notes, and Statements are organized as a separate series and span several decades from her arrest on December 1, 1955, to her final years at the end of the twentieth century. The series includes galleys and other items from three co-authored books by her; drafts of writings from around 1956-1958; prayers and spiritual reflections; statements honoring John Conyers and opposing the appointment of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court; and notes that range from note-taking at meetings to random personal reflections to mundane jottings. A notebook, probably dated 1956, records in part her travels to California where she had numerous speaking engagements and attended the NAACP annual convention in San Francisco. Perhaps most notable among her writings are two folders of handwritten, draft accounts of her arrest, the subsequent bus boycott, and the dynamics of race relations in the South. Although undated, some of these drafts are written on the back of 1956 letters, envelopes, and a program. It is likely that many of them were written that year, possibly for speeches given by Parks. Some may have been written between 1957 and1958 when Parks was living and working at the Hampton Institute. Also of note are drafts of autobiographical writings in which Parks explored the impact of racism and discrimination on her own life. It is uncertain why she wrote these drafts. Some may have been written as notes for interviews or speeches, or she may have considered writing her memoirs in either article or book form.
Many of Parks's speaking engagements, the honors she received, and events she attended are documented in an Events series that contains programs, invitations, flyers, and other publicity material. The file is arranged in two sections: events featuring or honoring Parks and a general file for events that she most likely attended even though her name does not appear in the programs. Items from events featuring or honoring Parks trace the evolving way Parks was remembered and honored by the American public. Some of the earliest events were organized as fund-raising benefits to assist the Parks family as it struggled financially in the aftermath of her arrest. Later events focused more exclusively on celebrating her as an iconic national hero and the "mother of the civil rights movement." The programs in the general file are useful in documenting the organizations, people, and movements she supported by her mere attendance. The collection also includes numerous resolutions, tributes, honorary degrees, and other honors awarded to Parks. These are arranged as a separate series and are housed among the collection's Oversize material.
A Miscellany series documents many day-to-day and material aspects of Rosa Parks's life including her employment, financial status, health, memberships, donations, household furnishings, residences, and circle of friends, family, associates, and contacts. Employment files largely consist of pay stubs and vouchers, including those from the Montgomery Fair department store where Parks was employed as an assistant tailor at the time of her arrest. Income tax records track the financial status of the Parkses from 1943 to 1987 and expose the couple's prolonged financial struggle following Rosa Parks's arrest in 1955. Other records including insurance and banking records and receipts for household goods and rent provide further insight into their financial conditions and coping strategies. Rosa Parks's web of personal connections is partially documented through address books, invitation lists, and telephone messages. Telephone messages dated 1974-1975 in particular provide a glimpse into the casework handled by Parks and other staff in Congressman John Conyers's Detroit office.
The Printed Matter series contains material about Parks and collected by her. Collected material focuses on such topics as civil rights, Martin Luther King, Jr., and religion. It also includes commemorative stamps sent to her by others and magazines and newspapers she presumably read and saved. Magazines and newspapers with articles about Parks or briefly mentioning her are arranged separately within the printed matter. The collection also contains books owned by Parks. Some of the earliest publications were owned by family members whose names are written in the books. Prominent among the family-owned books is a Bible recording births, deaths, and marriages of members of the Percival, Arberry, and Edwards families. Copies of the family register pages have also been made available in the Family Papers series. Some of the later books contain inscriptions to Parks by Fred D. Gray, Alex Haley, John Oliver Killens, Coretta Scott King, Olivia Pearl Stokes, and Studs Terkel, among others.
Correspondence, certificates, memorials, notes, financial records, employment records, insurance documents, medical records, photographs, news clippings, and other material pertaining to the family of Rosa Parks.
Correspondence, greeting cards, and children's drawings.
Correspondence, memoranda, invitations, notes, writings, interview transcripts, programs, flyers, name tags, newsletters, an instructional kit, an organizing manual, lists, certificates, song sheets, petitions, photographs, a collection of labor and political buttons, and other material pertaining to Parks's affiliation with various organizations and institutions, her participation in major civil rights events, and efforts to honor her.
Book galleys, drafts of writings, notes, notebooks, interviews, prayers, spiritual reflections, and statements by Parks.
Event programs, flyers, tickets, and other printed matter.
Resolutions, tributes, certificates, honorary degrees, and poetry honoring Parks. Arranged alphabetically in the following categories: congressional; institutions and organizations; miscellaneous; poetry; states, cities, and local communities; and wooden plaques and framed certificates.
Financial, employment, insurance, estate, and medical records, appointment calendars, address books, biographical material, business cards, lists, keepsake portfolios, membership and other cards, telephone messages, a recipe, a questionnaire, sample stationery, and other material documenting Parks's daily life and material circumstances.
Magazines, newspapers, pamphlets, brochures, a book, commemorative stamps, calendars, and various printed ephemera either pertaining to or collected by Parks.
Books owned by Parks. Some of the books are inscribed with the names of family members. Others contain inscriptions to Parks by the author or the person giving her the book.
The Congressional Gold Medal and Presidential Medal of Freedom.
Oversize material consisting of resolutions, tributes, certificates, honorary degrees, correspondence, writings, political ephemera, labor and campaign buttons, a calendar, a family Bible, and newspapers.
The papers of Gregory Goodwin Pincus (1903-1967) span the period 1920-2006, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the years 1950-1967. The collection consists of diaries, correspondence, writings, research files, and miscellaneous material relating to Pincus's life and career, especially his role in developing and testing the contraceptive pill. The papers are organized into nine series: Diaries; Personal Correspondence; Professional Correspondence; Speech, Article, and Book File; Research Material; Notebooks; Financial Papers; Miscellany; and Addition. The largest portion of the collection, the Professional Correspondence series, is compartmented into four subseries: General File, G. D. Searle & Company File, Cancer Chemotherapy National Service Center File, and Grants File.
Prominent in the General File subseries of the Professional Correspondence are materials pertaining to the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, which Pincus helped found, and the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Among the studies documented are projects conducted by Pincus in Haiti and Puerto Rico while developing and testing the oral contraceptive. Correspondence and reports concern the women who participated in the project and note their experiences, side effects, and thoughts and feelings about the contraceptive pill. Significant correspondents include Alberto Ercoli, Celso-Ramon Garcia, Mary Lasker, Katherine Dexter McCormick, Edris Rice-Wray, Hector Rocamora, John Rock, and Margaret Sanger.
Files relating to the G. D. Searle & Company, which manufactured most of the compounds investigated by Pincus in the search for the oral contraceptives, document his relationship with Searle from as early as 1942, including research projects that predate its association with the pill. The files are primarily correspondence and include related material. The Grants File subseries of the Professional Correspondence documents the range of research grants provided Pincus and his staff from many sources.
Also in the collection are data files and experiment books kept by Pincus, the reports of his staff at the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology, and manuscripts and correspondence relating to the many articles he wrote concerning the results of his research. The chronological arrangement of the Research Material series reveals the development of his interests and the thrust of his research at different periods in his life. The volume of writings in the Speech, Article, and Book File on the topic of the contraceptive pill suggests the importance of this development and some of the controversy which surrounded it.
The Diaries series contains two volumes, one from 1920, with original poetry, recounting the thoughts and experiences of Pincus as a youth of sixteen, and the other, from a few months in 1941, describe the research in which he was engaged and prospects for the future.
The Addition includes writings by Pincus; correspondence; glass slides containing data and results of fertility control experiments, clinical trials, and control groups in the form of tables, graphs, and charts; a scrapbook of newspaper clippings related to the birth control pill; and other papers.
Diaries and appointment books.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Letters received and copies of letters sent.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, reports, memoranda, near print, and printed matter relating to Pincus's professional work.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, including related material concerning the G. D. Searle & Co. and Pincus's relation to it.
Correspondence, minutes of meetings, reports, memoranda, and related material concerning Pincus's work with the center.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, and data concerning grants received by Pincus and his staff.
Correspondence, manuscript and typescript drafts, notes, and other data concerning writings, speeches, and lectures by Pincus.
Notebooks and papers containing research data, records of experiments, and illustrations relating to scientific studies by Pincus and his staff. Much of this material was labeled by Pincus.
Reports and memoranda of research projects by members of Pincus's staff.
Laboratory notebooks.
Financial statements of the Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology and bills, statements, and correspondence relating to personal financial matters.
Awards, biographical material, family correspondence, memoranda, financial papers, notes, photographs, transcripts, writings, estate material, printed matter, and other miscellaneous items.
Writings, correspondence, glass slides, notebook, scrapbook, and other papers.
The papers of Harold Gould Henderson (1889-1974) span the years 1918-1955, with the bulk of the material dating from 1937 to 1946. The papers consists of correspondence memoranda, military papers, reports, notes, translations, drafts of writings, and printed matter. They document Henderson’s service during World War II as chief of the Japanese Language Section of the Allied Forces South West Pacific Area Psychological Warfare Branch, and later as head of the Education Division of the Civil Information and Education Section, Supreme Command for the Allied Powers, in occupied Japan. Included are reports and notes on wartime propaganda leaflets and on postwar education reform. The papers also contain Henderson’s account of having drafted a clause in the imperial rescript delivered on 1 January 1946 in which the emperor renounced his divinity. The collection further consists of Henderson’s writings on Japanese art and literature, some of which he wrote while teaching Japanese art and culture at Columbia University between 1935 and 1944. Included are his English translations of Japanese haiku poems, principally those of Matsuo Bashō and Yosu Buson. Henderson’s several books on haiku, beginning with The Bamboo Broom: An Introduction to Japanese Haiku (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co, 1934) popularized the poetic genre in America.
The records of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund span the years 1915 1968, with the bulk of the material ranging from 1940 to 1960. Consisting of an Office File, Subject File, Legal Case File, Restricted series, and Oversize, these records document the work and procedures of the organization as it combated racial discrimination against African Americans during an era of legal segregation. The fund waged its battle against discrimination in the nation's courts, and in so doing, initiated a public interest legal practice that was unprecedented in American jurisprudence.
This collection is inextricably linked to the records of its parent organization, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and a full account of most issues will require readers to consult both collections. The relationship between the two entities is documented in the Office File of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund records. Furthermore, the Office File documents the complex organizational and administrative decisions that set the course for the NAACP's legal program during the crucial middle years of the twentieth century. During its first few decades, the NAACP's legal work was often done on an unpaid and voluntary basis. Later, guided by a board of directors and the recommendations of a 1931 report on legal strategy by Nathan Margold, the NAACP began mapping out an ambitious legal program to seek equal justice, full citizenship rights, and an end to racial segregation. It was clear that this legal program required a paid staff and solid funding. The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., was formed as a membership corporation in 1939 to take advantage of tax exemptions available to nonprofit, nonpolitical charitable organizations, a tax status that had been denied to the NAACP by the Internal Revenue Service. Commonly known as the "Legal Defense Fund," the "Inc. Fund," or simply "the Fund," its purpose was to obtain income for the NAACP legal program.
In 1940 the U.S. Treasury Department granted tax-exempt nonprofit status to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. Thurgood Marshall was named director of the fund and, concurrently, special counsel to the NAACP. The executive secretary of the NAACP was appointed to the board of directors for the fund. Budgets for the two operations were to remain separate. However, the interlocking boards of directors and shared office space at the NAACP headquarters in New York City meant that the separation was little more than a technicality.
By the early 1950s, the fund was outgrowing its office space and its subsidiary role. The Internal Revenue Service continually questioned the fund's tax-exempt status, since the NAACP and the fund were operated by the same people out of the same office. Reasoning that a move would placate the IRS and ease the crowding, the Legal Defense Fund moved its offices in December 1952. At the time of the move, the staff included Thurgood Marshall, five attorneys, a research assistant, a field worker, a fund-raiser and secretarial and clerical personnel. The Legal Defense Fund staff took a number of NAACP files which it had been reviewing, such as those concerning Josephine Baker's treatment at the Stork Club in New York City, and files pertaining to the Detroit riot of 1943. These records were incorporated into the fund's records and can now be located in the Subject File. Confusion as to which documents belonged where continued to plague both organizations. A courier system was established to exchange mail and other documents twice a day, a necessary expedient since many legal matters were addressed to the NAACP for years to come.
To protect itself and the legal program against charges of stirring up lawsuits, and especially to shield lawyers from disbarment who were associated with its cases, the fund established new procedures in handling litigation. After 1955 it only took cases of indigent African Americans who had been denied a civil or constitution right solely because of race or color and who personally or through their attorneys or immediate family requested the assistance of the Legal Defense Fund. No longer did the fund work at the behest of branch or national officers of the NAACP.
Unlike the NAACP, the Legal Defense Fund did not have branches, but retained services of regional lawyers in California, Virginia, Washington, D.C., Louisiana, and Texas typically to handle cases in federal courts. It also paid and supervised local attorneys who conducted litigation in state courts. Records concerning these attorneys are in the Office File.
Success in court brought intense scrutiny. After the interlocking boards of directors became an issue, the boards of the NAACP and the Legal Defense Fund agreed to separate in late 1956. Marshall became the director of the fund and relinquished his title as special counsel to the NAACP. An office of NAACP General Counsel was created to which Robert Carter was named, bringing an end to Carter's association with the fund. The legal program, in effect, was transferred from the NAACP to the Legal Defense Fund in 1956. When its lease ended in 1957, the fund moved again and opened its new offices in January 1958. This move signaled a break with the parent organization, one that did not cause too much concern so long as Marshall remained director. When he left in 1961 to become a federal judge, the question of the relationship between the two organizations was reconsidered.
Jack Greenberg succeeded Marshall as director of the fund in 1962. Thereafter, the NAACP reestablished its own legal department under the direction of Robert Carter. However, until the mid-1960s, litigation undertaken in the name of the NAACP was handled by Legal Defense Fund lawyers, and documentation of such action is located in the Legal Defense Fund records. The records in the Office File thus represent a period of transition for the NAACP and for the Legal Defense Fund.
The legal program of the NAACP is documented in the Subject File as well as the Legal Case File. Any matter not in the form of a legal proceeding is filed as a subject. Thus, "crime," "soldier troubles," and "veteran's complaints" contain many requests for aid along with nonlegal documents concerning specific cases. Similarly, broad areas of civil rights violations are documented under "armed forces," "discrimination," "housing," "labor," "schools," "transportation" and "voter registration."
The Legal Case File documents cases handled by the fund in its coordinated attack aimed at laws or practices of racial discrimination which limited or prohibited access to education, property, and the political process; or laws which excluded or imposed special restriction on racial groups in domestic relations, criminal law, public accommodations and services, and elsewhere. The strategy was to initiate or counter an interrelated set of cases which would cumulatively bring an end to racial segregation and discrimination.
Cases are filed alphabetically by title in keeping with the original order as established by the Legal Defense Fund. Material within the file is arranged to reflect the development of each case. The emphasis is on chronology and on the progression from unofficial, incomplete, and related material to the official records and the summarized presentations. Therefore, correspondence which is not part of the court record is filed first. Background material is next and comprises a working file of memoranda, notes, data, reports, and drafts. Legal documents are the official documents transmitted to and from the court during legal proceedings. Legal documents can include the following: affidavits, briefs, correspondence, depositions, exhibits, finding of facts, judgments, memoranda, motions, notices, opinions, orders, interrogatories and answers to interrogatories, and trial transcripts. Documents are arranged chronologically or by document type if bulk necessitates, as with some transcript and exhibit books. At case closing, or for particular presentations, various actions and decisions were published in an edited and condensed form and are designated as printed case records.
Occasionally, the case file will include records of litigation from a lower court, counter actions, or related records in test cases. These records are designated related cases and cited thereunder. Related cases are cited by title and may include all of the record types as found in the main case file.
A parenthetical note indicates the general category for the case and the location by state of the proceedings. Cases litigated up to the mid-1960s can be grouped into the following broad categories: armed forces, civil rights protest demonstrations, criminal proceedings, domestic relations, education, elections, housing and real property, labor, public accommodations, recreational facilities, and transportation. See the index appended to the register for a description of these categories and a listing of cases by category and state.
Over 450 cases are represented in the Legal Case File and education cases comprise the largest category. Brown vs. Board of Education is the fund's landmark case, the case that ended racial segregation in the public schools, and yet case files for Brown are not included in this series. They are preserved among the records of the NAACP along with those of other important education cases decided by the Supreme Court including State of Missouri ex rel. Gaines v. Canada (1938), Sipuel v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma (1948), Painter v. Sweatt (1950), and McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents (1950). However, records related to the Brown case can be found in the other series in this collection. The Supreme Court took up the school segregation cases consolidated under Brown in the spring term of 1953. Unable to reach a decision, the justices requested that both sides address five questions and reargue the case in the fall term. Records pertaining to the reargument are in the Office File, particularly the extensive records of the Committee on Historical Development. The Court decided the case in May 1954; segregation was ruled to be unconstitutional. But questions remained concerning implementation of the ruling. The court again asked the litigants to argue the case for implementation in what is commonly referred to as Brown II. The Legal Defense Fund organized a Committee of Social Science Consultants to address the questions of implementation. Committee records are located in the Office File. Related documents in the Subject File series are filed under "schools."
Housing and property cases in the Legal Case File series include documents from the NAACP's first case on this issue: Buchanan v. Warley (1917). Public accommodations, transportation, and recreation cases date from the 1950s to the 1960s. Cases concerning elections and voting rights are mostly from the 1940s and 1950s with one large case, Gray v. Main, from 1966. The landmark white primary case of Smith v. Allwright (1944) is located in the NAACP records. Labor cases span the 1930s to the 1950s, however, much of the related material is in the Subject File series, including material on the Southern Tenant Farmers' Union. Cases concerned with the armed forces were litigated primarily in the 1940s and early 1950s, including the Korean War cases reviewed by Thurgood Marshall while investigating combat conditions and court martial proceedings in Korea. Civil rights protest demonstration cases were litigated primarily in the early- to mid 1960s.
Restricted material, consisting of folders removed from the open portion of the collection, is identified in the Container List with an asterisk.
Administrative records, financial data, case dockets, conference agenda and reports, personnel records, staff and committee files, and reports of annual and monthly progress.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, legal documents, newspaper clippings, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Records of NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund litigation, including correspondence, memoranda, notes, newspaper clippings, printed matter, briefs of cases, petitions, writs, affidavits, depositions, exhibits, legal memoranda, resolutions, orders, judgments, and trial or hearing transcripts.
Campbell v. Greyhound Bus Lines
Freeman v. Greyhound Bus Lines
NAACP v. Saint Louis-San Francisco Ry.
Walker v. Southeastern Greyhound Bus Lines
Correspondence, memoranda, legal documents, and related material removed from the open portion of the collection.
Maps, charts, posters, and voting and population records.
Armed Forces
Civil rights protest demonstrations
Criminal law
Domestic relations
Education
Elections
Housing and real property
Labor
Miscellaneous
Public accommodations
Recreational facilities
Transportation
The Truman administration adopted a policy in 1948 of "equality of treatment and opportunity" in a plan which called for racial integration of the United States armed forces by 1954. The Korean War accelerated the process so that integration was to be implemented by 1952. However, the NAACP continued to receive and investigate complaints of bias relating to assignments, promotion, discipline, or the administration of military justice. Furthermore, integration was much slower in reserve units, and few African Americans received Reserve Officer Training Corps scholarship awards. Finally, the fund challenged lingering segregation in schools, housing, and other collateral activities on military bases.
By 1960, court cases and integration efforts were sometimes accompanied by forms of social protest such as sit-ins and group marches. Demonstrators were often arrested for breach of peace or trespassing and some were defended by the fund.
The fund litigated cases in which a defendant claimed denial of due process because of racial discrimination. Usually these cases raised questions about jury selection, coerced confessions, competent legal representation, and unfair sentencing. Some cases involved lynchings; others concerned police misconduct and racial segregation in prisons.
Antimiscegenation laws were challenged, as were those which prohibited interracial cohabitation or which imposed special penalties if the offenders were of different races. Similarly, the fund challenged adoption and child custody cases which were based on racial considerations.
Discrimination in education was the fund's primary area of litigation from the 1940s to 1960s. Initial efforts were directed at gaining equal facilities and curriculum for students and equal pay for teachers in Negro schools. By the 1950s, it had been clearly demonstrated in the courts that separate schools would never be equal. Thereafter, cases aimed for integration at all levels of public education: first in professional schools, and then in elementary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities.
The fund took cases to gain or protect voting rights in general elections and primaries. Other cases concerned electoral district apportionment and strictures on Negro candidates and bloc voting.
The fund challenged racial zoning laws and restrictive covenants which excluded ethnic groups, and segregation or discrimination in federal housing and other public housing aid programs. Other litigation involved individuals who resorted to the courts to protect private property rights, or cases brought against individuals who obstructed integration of residential neighborhoods.
Depression era cases often concerned forced labor or peonage. Thereafter, the fund worked to define fair employment practices by challenging discrimination in government employment or by companies receiving government contracts, exclusion of African Americans from professional associations or union membership, especially when unions negotiated contracts and were otherwise consulted on labor practices.
Includes cases which do not fit into outlined categories. Of note are the cases involving the NAACP's right to do business in various states in the 1950s, particularly in Texas.
Segregation in public accommodations, recreational facilities, and transportation were daily manifestations of "Jim Crow." Racial distinctions in public accommodations were usually not imposed by state statutes; many facilities banned African Americans or were segregated by custom, or local ordinance and regulation. Cases of racial discrimination were brought against auditoriums, hospitals and health facilities, hotels, insurance companies, libraries, restaurants, cafeterias, and lunch counters, retail stores, theaters and other places of entertainment.
The fund undertook cases which specifically targeted segregated recreational facilities supported by public funds such as parks, beaches, swimming pools, golf courses, and tennis courts because these cases provided a clear and strong challenge to separate-but-equal precepts. Later, the fund brought cases of racial discrimination against privately owned and operated facilities.
The fund challenged various state laws requiring segregated travel in buses and trains. Suits contended that separate quarters were not equal and also raised jurisdictional questions. The Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) was eventually vested with the authority to revoke segregation when it impeded interstate commerce, and cases involving segregation on interstate trains and buses were thereafter heard by the ICC. Local transit authorities, mainly city bus and street-car systems, continued to be challenged in the courts.
The records of the Hillcrest Children's Center span the years 1815-1966, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1880-1960. Largely administrative, the records reflect the financial and managerial techniques of the institution that until the 1950s provided for the care and protection of homeless youths and in subsequent years for the treatment of emotionally disturbed children. The records include correspondence, minutes of meetings, committee and staff reports, admittance and application records, indentures, journals, ledgers, financial statements, deeds, mortgages, bank checks, budget estimates, index cards, and miscellaneous material.
The records have been organized into three series: Unbound Records, Bound Records, and Miscellany (Oversize). The Unbound Records are further subdivided into seven numerically classified categories: general records (100s), children's records (200s), lady managers' records (300s), trustees' records (400s-500s), property records (600s-700s), legacy and gift records (800s), and historical and miscellaneous records (900s). The numerical classification system, which also extends to the other two series, was designed by Dorothy Smith Coleman for the center in 1953 and has been left largely intact with only minor revisions and processing refinements.
The Washington Female Orphan Asylum, Hillcrest Center's original name when it was founded in 1815, was initially established to care for girls left homeless by the British invasion of the capital during the War of 1812 [1]. In the years since its founding, many Washington notables, including Dolly Madison (the center's first director), Marcia and John Van Ness, William Corcoran, and Blair Lee, among others, have contributed to the success of the institution as trustees or members of the Board of Lady Managers. Documentation relating to the early history of the institution is scanty and can be found chiefly in the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Lady Managers.
1. In 1828 the institution's name was changed “forever” by act of Congress (May 24) to the Washington City Orphan Asylum. Though Washington City Orphan Asylum still remains its official name, the institution was called Hillcrest Children's Village from 1927 to 1953 and Hillcrest Children's Center since 1953.
Traditionally the administration of the asylum rested with a Board of Lady Managers, charged with supervising the daily management of the institution and the care of the children, and with five male trustees, whose duties included financial and property management. Of the two administrative units, the ladies' records are the more varied and complete, especially after the turn of the century. Of prime importance to the ladies' records are the minutes of the meetings which contain much of the basic information abstracted for the annual reports. The minutes contain correspondence, directives, committee and staff reports, resolutions, and memoranda prepared for and included as a result of the meetings. Other informative data concerning the lady managers, as well as the children receiving services, will be found in the staff and committee reports which, for the most part, are organized separately. Staffing, budgeting, maintenance, and medical services available for the children are the central points depicted in the superintendent and staff reports for the period 1933-1956. Beginning in the 1930s, a social worker prepared reports for the case committee detailing information on the applicants and residents. This information, in the form of case histories, describes to some degree the child's family background and personality traits. The lady managers' records also include reports of the Grounds and Educational Committees, journals listing the amount of overhead such as staff salaries and plant maintenance, and financial records pertaining to the Hillcrest home on Nebraska Avenue, N.W.
The records relating to the trustees are primarily financial in character, reflecting their role as budget directors and property managers. Although incomplete, the files include minutes of meetings, ledgers, journals, auditors' reports, promissory notes, and some correspondence. The property records, which comprise a separate series, greatly augment the fragmentary trustees' file and contain a wealth of information focused equally between investment properties and the asylum's residences.
The property records, while lacking in correspondence, reflect land values, building, repair, and rental costs in Washington, especially for the years 1870-1900. The trustee and property records and the files relating to legacies form the core of the center's financial records for the middle period and later years.
A significant though limited amount of material remains in the collection relating to the merger of Hillcrest with the Washington Institute of Mental Hygiene and Children's House. Documentation supplied by the annual reports and the ladies' minutes outlines the merger procedure which took place over the period 1953-1961. The superintendent's reports, together with information supplied by the case histories, treat with detail the staff's growing conviction that psychological treatment of children took precedence over other considerations. Consequently, in 1953 Hillcrest formed a working arrangement with the above-mentioned institutions to care exclusively for emotionally disturbed children. In 1961, after a report prepared by the Community Research Center of New York, the separate institutions merged under one administration.
Rounding out the collection are three file groups entitled children, general, and miscellaneous records. Files within these groups contain references to adoptions, indentures, constitutions, bylaws, annual and biennial reports, early acts of Congress relating to the formative years of the institution, historical sketches of the asylum, and complete description of the archives by Coleman.
In addition to the numerical classification outlined above, there is a further decimal classification for some of the records (see the first folder in Container 1 for details). Generally, the numerical classification is followed by three letters as described below:
Alphabetical Key
The alphabetical key classifies documents or file groups into three component parts: administrative relationship, chronological time span, and type of material.
T-Trustees
A-1815-1865
B-Bound volume
L-Ladies
D-1866-1875
F-Folder*
O-Both ladies and trustees
S-1876-1925
E-Window binder*
H-1926-
R-Looseleaf binder*
C-A combination of two or more periods
N-Newspaper clippings
P-Pamphlet
*All documents formerly in looseleaf and window binders have been placed into folders and should be considered under the “F” classification. Consequently, all materials labeled E, R, or F are contained in the Unbound Records.
Correspondence, minutes of meetings, committee and staff reports, accounting statements, bills, receipts, canceled checks, notes, list, vouchers, deeds, titles, blueprints, tax and rent receipts, legal opinions, and printed matter.
Journals, ledgers, minutes of meetings, financial statements, applications, relinquishments, check stubs, indentures, numerical index, and some correspondence.
An alphabetical index, maintenance and beneficiary journal, and deed and schedule of lots donated by Congress in 1832.
The papers of Saul Robert Kleiman (1918-2004) span the years 1935-1983, with the bulk of the material dating from 1943 to 1945. The papers are mostly in English and Japanese, with Burmese, Kachin, Shan, and other ethnic Asian languages. The collection is arranged largely according to the groupings established by Kleiman: biographical information, correspondence, Office of War Information files, research files, submissions for awards, and writings, and therein alphabetically by type of material or topic.
The largest portion of the papers relates to Kleiman's service with the United States Office of War Information (OWI) during World War II and pertains to psychological warfare and the use of propaganda in the Far East. The Office of War Information files contain correspondence, memoranda, propaganda in various languages with English translations including leaflets, newspapers, printed matter, broadsides, and ephemera, interrogations of prisoners of war, reports on the effectiveness of propaganda, newsletters, newspaper clippings, and Japanese propaganda in the Philippines. The files also contain personal papers relating to Kleiman's duties and his daily diary. The personal correspondence from the war years also contains information relating to his propaganda activities. Kleiman's writings contain drafts of articles and a radio program he wrote during the war.
On April 3, 1943, Kleiman arrived in New Delhi, India, and was attached to the China-Burma-India Theater (CBI), until June 1, 1944. His papers, however, were grouped under Burma-India. In May-June, 1943, he traveled to Burma and Assam, India, to make a study of the area of CBI-projected operations, to establish liaisons with the American and British military commanders in the area, and to arrange distribution channels for CBI-projected leaflets and other propaganda. Kleiman's multipage report discusses opium distribution in Burma, plans for Burman reconstruction, interviews with British and American military officials, events in the Hukawng Valley and attitudes of the Kachins, propaganda strategy, and the vegetable seed program that dropped seed packets by airplane. He also submitted an intelligence report detailing the speeches and activities of Eddie Rickenbacker during the captain's tour through the Assam area. Also chronicling some of Kleiman's activities in the CBI is his daily diary dating from March 1944 through May 1944. The diary discusses design and production of leaflets, use of Nisei to translate leaflets into Japanese, scheduled drops of leaflets, a radio broadcasting project, use of a public address system to broadcast propaganda, problems with supplies, resettlement of Kachin refugees, and meetings with military personnel. Further material on the CBI is under the heading of leaflets produced in other areas.
Even though China was part of the CBI, Kleiman's files on Yenan, actually Yan'an, were kept separately. Material on this area consists of leaflets and reports. The reports are comprised of intelligence reports on the Eighteenth Group Army of the Chinese that was a combination of the Eighth Route Army of Chinese communists and the New Fourth Army, and a series of "Yenan Reports" submitted by Francis McCracken Fisher, chief of the China Division, OWI, covering psychological warfare findings at and about Yenan from 1944 to 1945.
From June 2, 1944, until May 13, 1945, Kleiman was attached to the Southwest Pacific Area. He surveyed the New Guinea combat zones in June and July, and in early September 1944 arrived in Hollandia, New Guinea, to set up a psychological warfare operation at the headquarters of General Douglas MacArthur and the Sixth Army. There Kleiman was in charge of all forward operations for the OWI in the Southwest Pacific Area and director of leaflet production for the Sixth Army. On October 20, 1944, soon after General MacArthur's landing, Kleiman also landed at Red Beach on Leyte Island in the Philippines. He put on the first Voice of Freedom radio broadcast from the Apache (radio broadcasting ship). Propaganda operations were then moved inland to Tacloban. The close timing of his arrival in New Guinea and his landing on Leyte Island is probably why Kleiman combined the two areas in his files. Material consists of leaflets, correspondence, reports, interrogations of prisoners of war, radio broadcasts, and the basic military plan for psychological warfare in the Southwest Pacific Area. Under the heading of Leyte Island, Philippines, are propaganda newspapers and bulletins produced in the Philippines including the Leyte Shimbun, Leyte-Samar Bulletin, Leyte-Samar Free Philippines, and the Voice of Victory.
On February 8, 1945, Kleiman flew into the Philippine capital of Manila where he stayed until May 13. Material relating to his efforts there includes leaflets and the newspapers Manila Free Philippines and Airborne Edition Free Philippines. Of interest among the usual reports on the effectiveness of the leaflets and Japanese morale is a report on Chinese guerrilla organizations on Luzon and their activities.
The Office of War Information files also contain a group of uncategorized material, scrapbooks, and propaganda from the Asian and European theaters of war. Items in the uncategorized material, consisting of documents either designated by Kleiman as miscellaneous or found loose, are the same type of material housed in the categorized files. In all probability, the loose items were originally part of the categorized material. The scrapbooks were presented to personnel who had worked in propaganda in the Far East and contain runs of propaganda leaflets and newspapers. Propaganda from both theaters of war include leaflets, broadsides, magazines, pamphlets, and ephemeral items (called novelties by Kleiman) that include matchbooks, matchboxes, leaves of soap, and sewing kits, all marked with propaganda.
A large part of the personal correspondence relates to Kleiman's activities during World War II. There are letters to and from his first wife, Elnora H. Kleiman, with friends serving in the war and at home, and with his colleagues in the OWI. The correspondence with his colleagues is the same type Kleiman filed in the Office War Information files and often discusses propaganda and the war. Of interest are discussions on how to phrase propaganda so that conquered peoples understand that the Americans are freeing them from the Japanese and not from European colonizers. Correspondents include Frederic S. "Fritz" Marquardt, Barbara R. "Bobbe" Monroe, and Marshall Darrow "Marsh" Shulman.
Rounding out the collection are clippings of articles written by Kleiman from 1935 to 1955, biographical material, and his research files for articles written after the war concerning United States-European relations.
The papers of Peyton Conway March (1864-1955) span the years 1897-1955, with the bulk of the material dating from 1898 to 1933. The papers are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Miscellany, Scrapbooks, and Oversize. The collection is focused on March's globe-spanning military career, specializing in artillery command, and his retirement writings and opinions on military topics. March is given credit for establishing the primacy of the chief of staff position within the army hierarchy. As chief of staff, March succeeded in transporting the troops and supplies to Europe for the rapid buildup of the American Expeditionary Forces in 1918 and then overcame the logistical challenge of demobilization in 1919. Notable correspondents in the papers include Newton Diehl Baker, Tasker Howard Bliss, William Sidney Graves, and John J. Pershing.
The Correspondence series has a chronological file from 1911 to 1955 and a small alphabetical file that dates solely from 1918 to 1921, while March was chief of staff. The correspondence is largely military-related before 1921, the year of his retirement. Post retirement correspondence concerns his writing projects, special requests from the public, and personal correspondence with friends, often other retired military personnel.
The Speeches and Writings file includes the drafts of his 1932 book The Nation at War, March's personal history of World War I and a critical response to Pershing's 1931 book My Experiences in the World War. Book reviews and related material are also included. Additionally, this series contains copies of lectures before the Army War College, speeches, newspaper articles, and draft writings on the Astor Battery, his memoirs, and his thoughts on Japanese intentions in Asia in 1933.
The Subject File is largely organized around March's various military assignments: command of artillery at Fort Riley, Kansas, command of the Astor Battery in the Philippines during the Spanish-American War, service in the Philippines working with General Arthur MacArthur during the 1899 Philippine American War, assignment to the Japanese Imperial Army in Manchuria as an observer during the Russo-Japanese War, and service in France during World War I. Also in the Subject File are reports and training manuals on a variety of army topics, but with a special focus on World War I and on artillery. March's memorandum arguing against the Siberian intervention by Allied forces in 1918 is in the Subject File; correspondence concerning the Siberian intervention is in the Correspondence File.
The Miscellany series is primarily composed of news clippings and printed matter related to March, an assortment of War Department proposals and reports, and other miscellaneous material.
The Scrapbooks series, all placed in Oversize, has nine volumes, seven of which are collections of newspaper clippings, with a few photographs and magazine articles, documenting the career of March. The last two scrapbooks relate to March Air Force Base, Riverside, California, which was named for March's son, Peyton C. March, Jr., an army air corps pilot who was killed in a 1918 flight training exercise in Texas.
Letters sent and received.
Drafts and other material relating to March's book The Nation at War, lectures, many given at the United States Military Academy, speeches, drafts of writings, articles, letters to the editor, and some writings by others.
Material relating to March's military service, including his service in the Philippines, at Fort Riley, Kansas, in World War I, and also his time with the Japanese Imperial Army during the Russo-Japanese war. Includes reports, military training manuals, orders, military correspondence and memoranda, and biographical material.
News clippings, printed matter, War Department proposals and reports, notes, small notebooks, and some photographs.
Nine scrapbooks primarily containing newspaper clippings and some photographs and articles concerning the military career of March. The last two scrapbooks contain photographs and text pertaining to March Air Force Base, Riverside County, Calif., which was named after March's son, an army air corps pilot killed in a training flight in 1918.
Maps, muster roll, printed matter, photographs, and scrapbooks.
The Declaration of Independence Collection, dating from 1776 to 1942, consists of miscellaneous copies of documents, mostly photostats, relating to the creation of the Declaration of Independence and its Virginia antecedents. Originals are at the Library of Congress, New York Public Library, University of Virginia Library, Massachusetts Historical Society, and the Department of State. Also in the collection are nineteenth and early twentieth-century printed copies of the Declaration of Independence. Of note are photostats of the Virginia Constitution and Declaration of Rights, 1776; photostats of the Resolution for Independence passed by the Continental Congress on June 7, 1776; photostats of Thomas Jefferson's record of debates in the Continental Congress, July 1-12, 1776 (originals in the Thomas Jefferson papers at the Library of Congress); and two copies of William James Stone's facsimile edition of the Declaration of Independence, published for the U.S. Secretary of State in 1823, and one later edition of Stone's facsimile. It is possible that some of these documents were assembled for a 1943 exhibition at the Library of Congress, "Genesis of the Declaration of Independence."
The papers of Kaj Aage Strand (1907-2000), which span the years 1875 to 1999 with the bulk of material dating 1947-1977, represent Strand's important work in double star photography, astrometry, and astrometric instrumentation design. They offer insight into the collaboration and competition between colleagues on an international level in this field. The papers also document the contribution of one of many Danish immigrants to scientific research in service to the United States military during World War II. The papers are organized largely as received into seven series: Publications; Speech, Lecture and Manuscript File; Correspondence; Subject File; Miscellany; Photographs and Slides; and Books, Notebooks and Journals. The collection material is in English and Danish.
Prominent correspondents include: Arthur Beer, Bart Jan Bok, Dirk Brouwer, William A. Fowler, Walter Fricke, Henry Giclas, Ejnar Hertzsprung, Arthur Allen Hoag, Leo Houziaux, Carlos Jaschek, Gerard Kuiper, Jan H. Oort, Bengt Strömgren, Otto Struve, Arthur Upgren, and Peter Van de Kamp.
Published works including originals and reprints from American, European, and Russian professional journals.
Speeches, class and conference lectures, draft copies and notes on published works, book reviews, and referee reports written by Strand and about his written works.
Copies and originals of letters and memoranda sent and received, mostly between science professionals, academic colleagues, and publishers on matters of professional interest; some is written in Danish.
Correspondence between Strand, his mother, sister, and first wife, written in Danish.
Predominantly post-retirement communications.
Correspondence, planning notes, publicity releases, travel and event itineraries, invitation and attendance lists documenting Strand's work with specific organizations, projects, and research. Included are files relating to Strand's contributions to the design, development, and construction oversight of pioneering equipment such as the U.S. Naval Observatory's 61-Inch Astrometric Reflector and the Strand Automatic Measuring Machine (SAMM), and his activities as President of Commissions 24 (Photographic Astrometry) and 26 (Double Stars) with the International Astronomical Union (IAU).
Biographical materials, personal documents, awards, employment records, military records, publications, property documents, master's thesis computations, and photocopies of Strand's scrapbooks consisting primarily of publicity pieces from newspapers and articles published in foreign and domestic press.
Publicity portraits of Strand, construction and dedication of the 61-Inch Astrometric Reflector, samples of early color star and galaxy photography taken with the 61-Inch telescope, conference and event photographs, and personal family photos.
Observation journals, student notebook, course lecture notebook, and published books edited by Strand.
The papers of Louis Nizer (1902-1994) consist of pencil and typewritten draft copies of Nizer's My Life in Court, a recounting of some of his most celebrated cases. Published in 1961, the book became a best seller.
The papers of Eugene Edwin Johnston (1915-2006) span the years 1912-2008, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1940-1963. Correspondence, military papers, writings, photographs, awards, certificates, maps, printed matter, digital files, and other papers document Johnston's military career and focus on his service with the 92nd Infantry Division. The papers are in English. The collection is arranged alphabetically by topic or type of material and therein chronologically.
Johnston served with the 92nd Infantry Division, nicknamed the Buffalo Soldiers Division, during World War II, and the division saw heavy combat in northern Italy from 1944 to 1945. Included in the papers are Johnston's Buffalo Soldier patch, a publication about the division, and documentation regarding his award of a Bronze Star Medal in 1945. As a white, commanding officer in a primarily African-American unit of the segregated United States Army, Johnston wrote to his wife about his dealings with the troops. He was proud of their accomplishments and recommended some for decorations. There are glimpses of the racial dynamics and tensions in the division in Johnston's early correspondence. The full extent of Johnston's experience with the division is discussed in the oral history interviews conducted by Carolyn Johnston, daughter of Eugene Edwin Johnston, from 2001 to 2005. In 2012, Carolyn Johnston used the oral history interviews in her publication My Father's War: Fighting with the Buffalo Soldiers in World War II. The oral history interviews are located in the digital files. In addition, Johnston's military papers and personnel 201 file chronicle his service in Austria with the 350th Infantry Regiment from 1950 to 1953 and his role as a military advisor in Taiwan from 1956 to 1957 and in Thailand from 1961 to 1962.
Correspondents include Johnston's wife, Alta Ross Johnston, and his daughters, Carolyn Ross Johnston and Nancy Jean Johnston Smith. Many letters from the World War II era are in V-mail format.
The digital files mainly consist of images of Johnston's correspondence. The images were created in 2014 and are in PDF format. Not all correspondence is digitized. Also included are WAV files containing audio recordings of Johnston's oral history interviews from 2001 to 2005.
The papers of Anne Porter (1911-2011) span the years 1911-2014, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1931-2006. Correspondence, poems, notebooks, photographs, articles, legal papers, and other miscellany pertain chiefly to the life and career of Porter. The papers are in English. The collection is arranged alphabetically by topic or type of material and therein chronologically or alphabetically.
The papers primarily consist of Porter's correspondence and poems that were assembled and inventoried by her son, Laurence M. Porter. Correspondents include Laurence M. Porter, Fairfield Porter, Katharine Minot Channing, and other Porter family members. Topics include family, friends, faith, poetry, and members of the New York School of poets and painters.
Porter published a few poems in the 1930s, and after the death of her husband, artist Fairfield Porter, she again began publishing poems in journals and books. The papers include drafts and copies of published and unpublished poems on loose pages and in notebooks. Porter's love of nature and Christian faith permeate the poems, and several include variant drafts with edits. Many of the poems appeared in Porter's books An Altogether Different Language, Poems 1938-1994 and Living Things: Collected Poems. Articles in the collection document Porter's career and nomination for the National Book Award for Poetry in 1994.
The papers of Princess Marie Bonaparte (1882-1962) span the years 1889-1962, with the bulk of the material dating from 1913 to 1961. The collection documents Bonaparte's interest and involvement in the field of psychoanalysis. The papers are in French, German, and English and include journals, memoirs, correspondence, drafts of writings, notebooks, legal documents, obituaries, genealogical notes, photographs, watercolor drawings, and printed matter arranged in five series: General Correspondence, Subject File, Writings, an Addition, and Formerly Closed material.
The General Correspondence series consists of letters to Bonaparte by fellow psychoanalysts including Edward Bibring, Grete L. Bibring, Ruth Mack Brunswick, Max Eitingon, Paul Federn, Sándor Ferenczi, Anna Freud, Dora Hartmann, Heinz Hartmann, Ernest Jones, Hans Lampl, Jeanne Lampl-de Groot, Rudolph Maurice Loewenstein, Heinrich Meng, Géza Róheim, Hanns Sachs, and Max Schur. Relatively few of Bonaparte's outgoing letters are included in the series other than numerous letters written by her to Eitingon between 1925 and 1941.
The General Correspondence series traces Bonaparte's introduction to psychoanalysis in the 1920s and her subsequent rise to prominence in the field due perhaps to her close relationship with Sigmund Freud. The series documents her willingness to expend her personal influence and financial resources on behalf of individual psychoanalysts, psychoanalytic organizations, and publishing endeavors in France and elsewhere. Letters from René Allendy, A. Hesnard, Jacques Lacan, René Laforgue, Daniel Lagache, Sacha Nacht, Charles Odier, George Parcheminey, Edouard Pichon, Raymond de Saussure, and other French psychoanalysts illuminate her role in the establishment and development of psychoanalysis in France. Bonaparte's role in facilitating the emigration of psychoanalysts, most notably Sigmund Freud, from Nazi-controlled countries prior to World War II and the immigration of European analysts to the United States after the war is also documented. The geographical range of Bonaparte's correspondence reflects the extent of the psychoanalytic movement's diaspora and the breadth of her activities and associations.
The Subject File series contains correspondence from the International Psycho-Analytical Association and the Internationaler Psychoanalytischer Verlag, information concerning Bonaparte's purchase of Freud's letters to Wilhelm Fliess in 1937, obituaries and genealogical notes, and a photograph of Bonaparte. Other files relate to Margaret Williams, an American child analyst in Paris who was sued by the French medical establishment for practicing medicine without a medical degree. Included are letters from psychoanalysts pertaining to lay analysis in various countries, copies of interrogatories and depositions, newspaper clippings, and notes by Bonaparte providing an historical survey of lay analysis. Also included in the series is a proposal sent by Bonaparte to William C. Bullitt and Franklin D. Roosevelt in late 1938 recommending that the United States purchase Baja California from Mexico and establish a Jewish refugee state there. Bonaparte noted that she had developed the plan in consultation with Freud.
A small addition contains Bonaparte's notes on Sigmund Freud's letters to Wilhelm Fliess that came open for research use in 2010.
The bulk of the Bonaparte Papers was closed to research use until January 2020. The Formerly Closed series includes Bonaparte's journals dated 1913-1927 and 1959-1961; her dream journals dated 1923-1961; unpublished portions of her memoir; and a series of five original notebooks and watercolor drawings created by Bonaparte as a child that became the basis of her book, Cinq cahiers écrits par une petite fille entre sept ans et demi et dix ans et leurs commentaires. Also in the series are short writings by Bonaparte, many of which are autobiographical. The correspondence includes typescripts of letters exchanged between Bonaparte and the French statesman Aristide Briand between 1914 and 1931. The collection also contains a large number of letters exchanged by Freud and Bonaparte between 1925 and 1939. Also included are a series of notebooks in which Bonaparte recorded the progress of her analysis with Freud.
Correspondence with related attachments.
Correspondence, notes, notebooks, court records, lists, obituaries, genealogical notes, photograph, and printed matter.
Notes and outlines. Drafts of books and short literary works are filed in the Formerly Closed series.
Bound notebook containing notes by Bonaparte on Sigmund Freud's letters to Wilhelm Fliess.
Journals, correspondence, drafts of writings, notes, notebooks, and watercolor drawings.
Correspondence of the North American Review spans the years 1858-1912 and chiefly concerns contributions to the magazine and requests for copies of published articles. Contributors came from various backgrounds, including archaeology, statistics, law, literature, history, journalism, social reform, the military, politics, economics, engineering, public office, astronomy, missionary work, education, agriculture, and medicine. Letters were frequently addressed to editors Lloyd Stephens Bryce and Allen Thorndike Rice. Correspondents were both American and international, and include Leonard Dalton Abbott, Charles A. Beard, William Campbell Preston Breckinridge, William E. Dodd, Charles S. Duke, Paul Gibier, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Henry James, Kiyoshi Karl Kawakami, Sir Henry W. Lucy, Luigi Luzzatti, Herbert Putnam, and Ezekiel Stone Wiggins.
The family papers of Columbus Delano (1809-1896) span the years 1845-1889. The collection consists of correspondence, financial records, a photograph album, and miscellaneous material relating to Ohio and national politics and patronage, the Republican Party, western lands, railroad expansion, and personal and financial matters. Much of the material concerns Columbus Delano’s finances and political activities before and after the Civil War, but included are files pertaining to his son, John Sherman Delano, focusing on land interests in Minnesota in the 1870s and 1880s. Also in the papers is a file regarding the purchase by the United States in 1872 of the archives of the Confederate States of America. Contained in the file is a copy of a letter of 3 December 1864 from Jacob Thompson (1810-1885) to J. P. Benjamin of the Confederacy. Additional material consists of three letters with typewritten transcripts from Columbus Delano to Henry B. Curtis relating to the Mexican War and Whig politics, 1845-1846.
Other correspondents include Henry Ward Beecher, Simon Cameron, William E. Chandler, Schuyler Colfax, Roscoe Conkling, Shelby M. Cullom, Grenville M. Dodge, Hamilton Fish (1808-1893), James A. Garfield, Jay Gould, Ulysses S. Grant, Rutherford B. Hayes, Whitelaw Reid (1873-1912), and John Sherman (1823-1900).
The papers of Charles M. Dickinson (1842-1924) span the years 1897-1923, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1897-1908. The collection consists of correspondence, writings, reminiscences, biographical material, clippings, passports, and photographs relating chiefly to Dickinson's activities as an American diplomatic representative in Bulgaria and Turkey. Included is documentation pertaining to Ellen Maria Stone, a missionary abducted by brigands in Macedonia in 1901, and investigations of Thomas H. Norton and Selah Merrill, American consuls in Smyrna, Turkey, and Jerusalem, respectively. Also included is material relating to Dickinson's law practice in New York and reviews of his book, The Children, and Other Verses (1889).
The papers of Leon Howard Sullivan (1922-2001) span the years 1940-2002 with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1988-2002. The collection consists primarily of correspondence, reports, personal files, program files, articles, and miscellaneous material from Sullivan’s role as president of the International Foundation for Education and Self Help (IFESH), with additional material regarding Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America. The papers are arranged in three series: IFESH, OIC, and Personal Miscellany.
Leon Sullivan devoted many years of his life to the Philadelphia community, serving as pastor of the Zion Baptist Church from 1950 until his retirement in 1988. In that span, Sullivan founded the Zion Non-Profit Charitable Trust in 1962, Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America in 1964, the OIC International in 1969, and served on the board of directors for General Motors beginning in the 1970s, where he developed a code of conduct for companies called the Sullivan Principles.
After his retirement, Sullivan founded the International Foundation for Education and Self Help, which would extend his principles of self-help and community empowerment to Africa. Through the use of assistance programs, IFESH helped educate and train Africans in the areas of health, business, and economic development in order to reduce poverty and unemployment. As president, Sullivan began the African-African American Summit to bring together world leaders and highlight issues facing African countries. The IFESH series contains program files, reports, summit materials, contributions, and administrative files documenting the various functions of the organization.
While serving as president of IFESH, Sullivan was kept abreast of the operations of Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America. The OIC series contains information regarding OIC International, affiliates, reports, and miscellaneous administrative records. The Personal Miscellany series contains correspondence, press and news clippings, articles written by Sullivan, and assorted material concerning General Motors, South Africa, and the Sullivan Principles.
Program files, reports, administrative files, subject files, and news articles relating to the International Foundation for Education and Self Help.
Program files, reports, administrative files, subject files, and news articles relating to Opportunities Industrialization Centers of America and OIC International.
Correspondence, speeches, news articles, awards, reports, and writings related to Sullivan's work outside of International Foundation for Education and Self and Opportunities Industrialization Centers.
The records of the Elections Research Center span the years 1918-1992, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1932 and 1992. The records consist of newspaper clippings, ballots, election returns, reports, notes, statistical data, voting district maps, printed material, and correspondence. The collection is arranged, filed, and numbered as received from the donor and organized into a General File, State File and Oversize.
The General File contains newspaper clippings, ballots, notes, and correspondence covering a variety of topics, namely voting and election matters of broad national and international interest. The material includes newspaper clippings documenting national coverage of the 1980 general election, the 1990 Census and resulting congressional reapportionment, and printed material regarding the 99th through 101st Congresses, among other topics. Newspaper clippings and printed materials regarding elections in Poland, Germany, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union are also comprised in this series, as are subject files regarding politician George C. Wallace. The correspondence in this series largely pertains to expenditures and funding requests for a voter registration project conducted by the Center between 1973 and 1977.
More extensive in scope and chronology is the State File, which contains newspaper clippings from local news outlets, sample ballots, notes compiled by Scammon, voting district maps, statistical data, and printed materials covering election campaigns and outcomes for all fifty states and the District of Columbia. Within each state is documentation of the biennial primary and general elections, which for most states ranges between 1956 and 1992. Some states, though not all, include separate coverage of gubernatorial and municipal elections, dating primarily from the early 1950s until the mid-1980s. Election returns and voting statistics by district for major American cities, including New York City, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Chicago, among others, is also comprised within the State File. Of particular note are the sample ballots collected for several states, the majority of which date between 1932 and 1948 and illustrate the variety of mid-twentieth century American political parties and their logos. Significant ballot measures chronicled in this series include Oklahoma’s repeal of prohibition in 1959, and Virginia, North Carolina, and other states' attempts to maintain and later eliminate segregation in public schools. Also of note is a file pertaining to the creation of the District of Columbia's Board of Elections in 1955 and later, correspondence regarding the establishment of Home Rule in the District in 1973, for which Scammon served as a consultant.
With the exception of one file regarding the Stern Family Fund grant for a voter registration project in the General File, this collection does not document the Elections Research Center’s business operations or functions, nor does it chronical publication processes for the America Votes series or any other of the Center’s printed volumes. The collection does however serve as a comprehensive database of voting statistics throughout the United States for nearly half of the twentieth century. The inclusion of local newspaper clippings furthermore provides a local perspective on election matters at the voting district level.
Newspaper clippings, ballots, notes, correspondence, and printed material.
Newspaper clippings, ballots, notes, voting district maps, statistical data, and printed materials.
Printed material.
The papers of Richard Lathers (1820-1903) span the years 1826-1901, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1848-1887. The collection consists of correspondence, speeches, writings, circulars, clippings, and other printed matter. Born in Georgetown South Carolina, Lathers became a merchant, banker, and president of the Great Western Insurance Company after moving to New York in 1848. He opposed secession, and contained in the papers is documentation of his efforts traveling through the South days before the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861 addressing Southern leaders, including Jefferson Davis, in order to dissuade them from seceding from the Union. Included also are writings by Lather on the outcome of the Geneva Arbitration Tribunal (1871-1872) that decided American claims against Great Britain for attacks on Union merchant ships by Confederate raiders during the conflict. Lather had been unsuccessful in securing for the Great Western Insurance Company a financial settlement based on the so-called Alabama claims cases.
Other material in the papers concerns tariff reforms, charters and prospectuses of the Great Western Insurance Company, the development of railroads, Reconstruction, and Lathers’s extrapolations of the history of South Carolina, particularly of Georgetown, and of New York state and city. Also reflected are Lathers's social, philanthropic, and religious activities, and his collection of letters of John C. Calhoun and John A. Dix (1798-1879). Among local events featured is the Charleston, South Carolina, earthquake of 1886 and the charitable response to it.
The papers of Charles Pinfold (1709-1788) span the years 1641-1767, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1756-1766 while Pinfold was governor of Barbados. Included are letterbooks, minutes of the proceedings of the president and council of Barbados, minutes of the council, transcripts of the island's general assembly, royal orders and instructions, and printed acts of the assembly, some of which predate Pinfold's governorship. The period treated covers the Seven Years War between England and France, 1754-1763, known in the American colonies as the French and Indian War, encompassing political events in the West Indies and also the North American continent.
The papers of Charles Goodwin Ridgely (1784-1848) span the years 1813-1826, with the bulk of the material concentrated between 1820 and 1822. The collection consists of a personal journal, a letterbook, and two letters. It relates chiefly to Ridgely's naval career, especially his commands of the USS Erie (Sloop of war) during the War of 1812 and of the USS Constellation (Frigate) in the Pacific Squadron. Subjects include the Latin American policy of the United States Navy, the wars of independence in Chile and Peru, and Ridgely's attitude toward Spain and Latin American revolutionaries.
The papers of John L. Saunders (1802-1860) span the years 1844-1857, with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1844-1847. The collection consists of correspondence, orders, and other papers covering primarily the period of Saunders's command of the USS St. Mary's during the Mexican War. Much of the material relates to United States naval operations off the Mexican coast, the blockade of the ports of Tampico and Veracruz Llave, and the transportation of American agents and dispatches. Principal correspondents include George Bancroft, Franklin Chase, David Conner, Robert Field Stockton, and Zachary Taylor.
The papers of I. M. Pei span the years 1920 to 2016, with the bulk of the material dating from 1960 to 2000. The collection documents the professional activities of Pei, best known for his architectural design, which is represented in buildings across the world. Also present in the collection are files related to Pei’s professional associations and activities as an urban planner. Its ten series include General Correspondence, Projects Completed/Inactive, Projects Aborted, Projects Proposed, Publicity File, Scrapbooks, Miscellany, Subject File, Digital Files, and Oversize.
The General Correspondence series documents the broad scope of Pei’s professional associations, activities, and friendships. The correspondence is arranged chronologically by year or year span and alphabetically therein by name of correspondent. The series begins with correspondence dating from Pei’s early career, including his association with William Zeckendorf’s real estate development firm Webb & Knapp, first as architectural director for Zeckendorf, 1948-1955, and then as head of his own firm I. M. Pei & Associates beginning in 1955. The bulk of the series, however, dates after 1960 when Pei’s practice became fully independent of Webb & Knapp. This later material includes some internal memoranda from Pei’s architectural firm, but most of it concerns his professional associations outside his architectural practice. These activities relate to professional organizations including the American Institute of Architects and Architectural League of New York; universities, most notably his alma maters Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University; galleries and museums; architectural magazines and publishers; the United States government including the Federal Housing Administration and Department of State; and honorary societies and organizations, among them the Académie d’architecture, American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and American Society of the French Legion of Honor. Correspondents include architects, designers, artists, editors, gallery owners, museum directors, corporate executives, public officials, and university presidents, among others. Prominent correspondents include Marcel Breuer, Henry Dreyfuss, Jean Dubuffet, O’Neil Ford, Ulrich Franzen, Alexander Girard, Walter Gropius, Victor Gruen, Fran P. Hosken, R. Sturgis Ingersoll, Philip Johnson, Pierre Matisse, Henry Moore, Chester E. Nagel, Carl Nesjar, Richard Joseph Neutra, John Carl Warnecke, Yang Yingfeng, and Zao Wou-ki. Letters from other well-known correspondents can be found in the Scrapbooks series. A significant portion of the General Correspondence series documents Pei’s connections with his native China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and the wider Chinese diaspora. Included are letters from family members, friends, architects, artists, students, and various Chinese and Chinese-American organizations. Much of this correspondence is in Mandarin or Cantonese.
The Projects Completed/Inactive series documents projects where Pei was the design principal. Files include projects undertaken by Pei Freed Cobb & Associates and by Pei after his retirement from the firm, yet often in collaboration with Pei Partnership Architects, a firm established in 1992 by Pei’s sons C. C. (Chien Chung) Pei and Li Chung Pei. Most of the projects include corporate headquarters, commercial structures, residential properties, schools, museums, concert halls, transportation terminals, and civic buildings designed by Pei, and in some cases, site plans for urban planning and community development projects. The series has been maintained as it was arranged by Pei’s staff by city, and therein by name of building or project. Most of Pei’s major works are well-documented in the files, most notably the John F. Kennedy Library, Bedford-Stuyvesant Superblock, Raffles City, Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center, Musée du Louvre, Musée d'Art Moderne Grand-Duc Jean in Luxembourg, and the Miho Museum. The files track project history from the proposal stage to project completion, and sometimes track the subsequent development of the building once the contract has been fulfilled. Typical documents include administrative files including meeting minutes, proposals, contracts, financial documents, memoranda, clippings, studies, reports, blueprints, architectural renderings, plans, drawings, maps, and photographs with a focus on Pei’s personal correspondence with clients, project stakeholders, and contractors. Files maintained after projects have been completed document renovations, historic landmark status, research queries, legal issues, and the evolution of buildings over time. In most cases these are the personal files of Pei, maintained by his executive assistant Leicia Black, and later by her successor, Nancy Robinson. The records of a few projects are much more voluminous and include the files of project manager Perry Y. Chin along with extensive shop drawings and design schematics. These projects include the Museum of Islamic Art, Four Seasons Hotel, and Oare Pavilion. Little documentation exists of early projects from the 1950s when Pei was working exclusively with Webb & Knapp. Also absent from the series are many of Pei’s files relating to the East Building of the National Gallery of Art, which he transferred to the gallery in 1986. There is also no documentation in this series of the air traffic control towers Pei designed for various U.S. airports throughout the 1960s.
The Projects Aborted series contains similar materials as the Projects Completed/Inactive series and likewise tracks the history of various projects. The major difference is that in almost all cases, while the projects were initiated, the buildings were never completed. Pei’s staff chose the designation of “aborted,” but this does not necessarily indicate that Pei intentionally abandoned the project. In most cases, these projects were stalled due to financial, political, or logistical issues. The only exception to this is the China Pavilion at Expo ’70, which was completed, but for which Pei was not the design principal, but rather the supervising architect. The major projects documented in this series include the Bilbao Emblematic Building in Bilbao, Spain; Bank Dagang Nasional Indonesia Center in Jakarta, Indonesia; Château de La Rochefoucauld in France; and the Athens Museum of Contemporary Art in Athens, Greece.
The Projects Proposed series consists of projects declined by Pei, often due to his firm’s heavy workload, or accepted by Pei but later cancelled for a variety reasons. Also included are projects for which Pei’s firm was not selected by the client. The projects represent the type of work for which Pei is best known and largely include institutional and corporate buildings and urban planning projects. Other projects include the 2000 Olympics in Beijing and the design of bottles for L’Oréal perfume and Taittinger champagne. The Projects Proposed series has been maintained as it was arranged by Pei’s staff by year and therein by name of city or country. A list of files (1952-1991) located at the beginning of the series records individual project names. Documentation for the projects, although not extensive in most cases, includes correspondence, memoranda, project proposals and reports, meeting minutes, plans, maps, photographs, financial records, and newspaper clippings. Two sets of report forms on prospective jobs are available for the 1960s and 1970s. These single-sheet summaries record project names, clients, locations, descriptions, and dispositions, and are occasionally supplemented by copies of correspondence and other documentation.
The Publicity File spans Pei’s career and is arranged in three file groupings: general, projects, and speaking engagements. The general file explores the broad scope of Pei’s work as an architect and urban planner from 1946 to 2012. Included are newspaper and magazine articles, book excerpts, and interviews, as well as correspondence with writers, interviewers, and publishers. A bibliography of articles about Pei from 1952 to 1983 follows the general file. The project file documents individual works by Pei and his firm, largely through newspaper and magazine articles. The file is arranged alphabetically by name of city or country and therein by name of project. The speaking engagement file, dated 1979-2012, consists largely of requests for Pei to speak and arrangements for the engagements he accepted. Only a few texts of his remarks are included. The Publicity File overlaps considerably with several other series. Correspondence with writers and publishers, speaking engagement requests, and transcripts of interviews can also be found in the General Correspondence series. The Miscellany series includes acceptance speeches for some of the more major awards received by Pei. The Scrapbooks series overlaps with the Publicity File series to the greatest extent.
Complementing the Publicity File series are more than one hundred volumes of scrapbooks compiled by Pei’s staff. The content of each scrapbook has been rehoused in folders to better preserve the material. Consisting largely of newspaper and magazine articles, the Scrapbooks series includes forty-five general volumes spanning the years 1944 to 2004, as well as separate volumes focusing on specific projects, including Dallas City Hall in Texas, East Building of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., Grand Louvre in Paris, John F. Kennedy Library in Boston, and Miho Museum in Japan. Four additional volumes contain published interviews with Pei between 1948 and 1989. Six volumes house memorabilia dating from 1960 to 2006. Included are programs and invitations from award ceremonies, building openings, and dinners honoring foreign dignitaries; certificates, awards, and honorary degrees; press releases and some acceptance speeches; a letter from Ronald Reagan congratulating Pei on receipt of the Pritzker Architecture Prize in 1983; and a note dated December 1981 arranging a meeting with François Mitterrand early in the planning process for the renovation and expansion of the Musée du Louvre. Seven scrapbooks contain special letters. Many of the letters are congratulatory notes to Pei on the winning of design competitions, opening of buildings, receipt of awards, and special birthdays. The eclectic range of letters also includes a copy of a 1946 letter from Pei concerning his master’s thesis on a Shanghai art museum, a 1948 letter of appointment from Webb & Knapp, a 1949 letter from Le Corbusier, mentioning Pei’s “maison cylindrique,” a sketch by Pei of the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center on the back of an October 1983 incoming letter, a February 1981 letter from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis about the John F. Kennedy Library, a cheerful postcard from Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman on a trip to China in 1994, and a handwritten letter from Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao on the opening of the Suzhou Museum in 2006.
The Miscellany series documents many aspects of Pei’s professional life. The award and honorary degree files document the recognition Pei received for his many achievements from the 1960s to 2014. Most notably, the series documents Pei’s significant awards including the 1979 American Institute of Architects Gold Medal, 1983 Pritzker Architecture Prize, 1986 Medal of Liberty, and his election to l’Académie des beaux-arts, Institut de France. Pei’s appointment calendars and logs date from 1955 to 2012 and provide documentation of his work schedule, including daily appointments, events, and meetings. Extensive files document Pei’s travel for a variety of purposes including meetings with clients, monitoring the status of projects, events, and vacations. Arranged according to month of travel, and later by departure date, the files consist of detailed itineraries, correspondence, and documentation of the projects for which he was traveling. Missing from the series are travel files from 1988. The bulk of photographs accessioned as part of the Pei Papers now reside in the Library’s Print & Photographs Division. The photographs in this series mostly include individual portraits of Pei and portraits of his family. Photographs of buildings designed by Pei can be found in the Publicity File, Projects Completed/Inactive, Projects Proposed, Projects Aborted, and Scrapbooks series. Education files mostly document his undergraduate career and 1940 bachelor’s thesis at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "Standardized Propaganda Units for War Time and Peace Time China." Notably missing is a copy of Pei’s master’s thesis at Harvard featuring a Shanghai art museum. The Miscellany series is also composed of biographical files, exhibit files, architectural registrations, recommendation letters for colleagues, and a portfolio prepared by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners that provides general information and images of many of their more notable buildings. Very little biographical information exists from Pei’s early life in China before he immigrated to the United States.
The Subject File series includes documentation of organizations and institutions to which Pei belonged including the Committee of 100, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation, National Council on the Arts, National Council on the Humanities, National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, and Urban Design Council of the City of New York. These files document Pei’s membership and involvement within each organization, mostly through correspondence and mailings regarding their activities. Files related to the American Institute of Architect task forces on National Urban Policy and West front of the U.S. Capitol primarily contain research and design information. This series also contains files for various architecture juries on which Pei served from 1955 to 2012, including juries for the National Gallery of Canada, the Parliament House of Canberra, and various design contests.
The Digital Files series contains files from digital storage media removed from paper files in the course of processing. The bulk of these are most closely related to the Publicity File series and include photographs, documentaries, videos of interviews and conversations with Pei, and footage from television shows on which Pei appeared. In some cases, videos focus on the construction of specific buildings such as the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and Deutsches Historisches Museum. Digital files related to projects mostly include drawings, plans, and surveys, though there are very few of these.
Correspondence and related material including memoranda, reports, proposals, agendas, minutes, mail and invitation logs, programs, announcements, press releases, invitations, resumes, brochures, ballots, interviews, plans, maps, photographs, news clippings, and other printed matter largely relating to Pei’s professional associations, activities, and friendships outside his architectural practice. A small amount of interoffice memoranda from Pei’s architectural firm is included. Other topics include his personal and professional connections within the Chinese diaspora. The series has been maintained for the most part as it was created and used by Pei’s staff. Letters from individual correspondents may be filed either under the person’s name or institutional affiliation. The chronological date span of folders is occasionally broader than the year under which they are filed. Separate files containing copies of Pei’s outgoing correspondence are available for many years beginning in 1953. Mail logs date from 1979 to 2010.
Correspondence, meeting minutes, proposals, contracts, financial documents, memoranda, clippings, studies, reports, blueprints, architectural renderings, plans, drawings, maps, and photographs relating to projects for which Pei was the design principal. The designation "completed/inactive" was used by Pei's staff and has been retained. The files primarily track project history from the proposal stage to project completion, and in some cases provide details related to projects long after they have become inactive.
Correspondence, memoranda, photographs, meeting minutes, proposals, contracts, financial documents, clippings, studies, reports, blueprints, architectural renderings, plans, drawings, maps mostly relating to projects that were initiated by Pei or his firm, but never completed. The only exception to this is the China Pavilion at Expo ’70 that was completed, but for which Pei was the supervising architect. Pei's staff designated these projects as "aborted."
Correspondence, memoranda, project proposals and reports, meeting minutes, plans, maps, lists, report forms, photographs, financial records, newspaper clippings, and other printed matter documenting projects either declined by Pei or accepted by him but later cancelled, as well as projects for which Pei’s firm was not selected by the client. Pei’s staff created the series and characterized the projects filed within it as “proposed.” Documentation for most projects is not extensive since many of the projects did not progress much beyond the initial inquiry from a prospective client or preliminary fact gathering by Pei’s staff. In addition to individual project files, report forms provide single-sheet summaries of prospective projects for the 1960s and 1970s.
Newspaper and magazine clippings, book excerpts, interviews, and some photographs; correspondence with writers, interviewers, and publishers; a bibliography of articles on Pei (1952-1983); and speaking engagement requests, arrangements, and some texts of remarks documenting the span of Pei’s architectural career. A general file focuses broadly on Pei and his work. A project file relates to specific projects undertaken by Pei and his firm. A speaking engagement file contains requests for Pei to speak and arrangements for the invitations he accepted. The texts of a few of his remarks are included. Other material relating to publicity and speaking engagements can be found in the General Correspondence, Scrapbooks, and Miscellany series.
Newspaper and magazine clippings, interviews, correspondence, programs, certificates, awards, honorary degrees, invitations, brochures, photographs, a sketch by Pei, press releases, and some texts of remarks from more than one hundred scrapbooks. Forty-five general volumes span the years 1944-2004 and document Pei’s career largely through newspaper and magazine clippings. Other volumes focus on specific projects including the Dallas City Hall, East Building of the National Gallery of Art, Grand Louvre, John F. Kennedy Library, and the Miho Museum. Four volumes contain published interviews with Pei. Six volumes house memorabilia, and seven volumes contain special letters.
Certificates, citations, biographical files, itineraries, correspondence, invitations, appointment calendars, speeches, press releases, clippings, notes, and photographs documenting Pei’s professional and personal life. Largely consists of documentation related to awards, honorary degrees, architectural registrations, education, exhibitions, competitions, and travel records.
Correspondence, along with reports, design books, and pamphlets document organizations and institutions to which Pei belonged and was an active member.
Digital files are from digital storage media removed from paper files in the course of processing. A cross reference to the original location in the paper files is provided for each file. Request files using the Digital ID.
Architectural drawings and plans, blueprints, certificates, maps, photographs, brochures and other printed matter, and a letter, scroll, watercolor drawing, and diploma.
The African American Soldiers in World War II Collection spans the years 1918-2018, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1997 to 2010. It consists of correspondence, memoranda, oral history interview transcripts, reports, government documents, books, notes, photographs, articles, maps, a scrapbook, newspaper clippings, printed matter, digital files, and other material utilized by Maggi M. Morehouse to document the service primarily of two African American combat divisions in World War II, the 92nd and 93rd Infantry Divisions of the United States Army. The 92nd Infantry Division saw heavy combat during the Italian campaign from 1944 to 1945. The 93rd Division was reactivated in 1942 at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, and served in the Pacific Theater chiefly in construction work and in combat support positions. The collection is in English and is arranged into four groups: interviews and related material, Maggi M. Morehouse's personal file, subject files, and digital files.
Morehouse began researching the service of Black soldiers in World War II in 1995 for a graduate history seminar. She continued to study the topic for her master's thesis and dissertation which later became a book titled Fighting in the Jim Crow Army: Black Men and Women Remember World War II. She has written a number of articles and papers about the subject. This collection documents her research using secondary sources and primary sources. The topic also had a personal connection for Morehouse because her father, Lee Sinclair Quarterman, served as a white officer in the 93rd Infantry Division.
Almost one half the collection is comprised of interviews by Morehouse with World War II veterans. The interview files include transcripts, correspondence, government documents, notes, photographs, unit histories, newspaper articles, and other material relating to the individual interviewed. Although both the 92nd and 93rd divisions were trained for battle, many of the men were assigned non-combat duties. Some of the training locales mentioned are Fort Bragg, North Carolina, Fort Benning, Georgia, and Fort Huachuca, Arizona. In the interviews the soldiers describe what it was like to serve in a segregated army and the racial attitudes they encountered at home and abroad. They describe life before and after the army. Serving in the military allowed the soldiers to experience the world outside their segregated communities and to obtain an education using the G. I. Bill. As a result many became part of the middle class and were active in the civil rights movement during the 1950s and 1960s.
Represented in the interviews are two women veterans, Susan Adams, who served in Germany in the Army Dental Corps, and Madine Davis Lane, who served as a nurse at Fort Huachuca, and in the China Burma India Theater, Egypt, Europe, and Okinawa. Some interviews include the participation of a soldier's spouse, and a few interviews consist solely of children discussing their father's military service. Filed at the beginning of the interviews are alphabetical lists of the soldiers interviewed by Morehouse. The lists also include a brief synopsis of the interview. One of the lists noted that there was an interview of Morehouse's father in the interview files. The Library, however, did not receive it. Quarterman's interview file does contain extensive military papers about his service and some original photographs of him. Additional interviewees include Hattie Mae Settles Allen, William S. M. Banks, Ogelsby B. Barrett, J. Herman Blake, Albert Burke, Leonard Cunningham, Roland Dix, Ruth Earl, Howard Fletcher, Arthur Goodwin, Felix Goodwin, Allen E. Green, Anna Hairston, Joseph Hairston, Charles Hanson, Dennette Arthur Harrod, Arnett Hartsfield, Cleather Hathcock, Howard Hickerson, Levi Hill, Reuben Horner, Jehu Callis Hunter, Fred L. Hurns, Ezell Jackson, Niani Kilkenny, Lawrence Johnson, Charles Lancaster, Robert P. Madison, Mick Marshall, John B. Mathews, William C. McCullough, Dorothy McIver, I. P. McIver, Thomas McKinney, Cullen McKissock, Donald McNeil, Harold Montgomery, Helen Montgomery, Spencer Moore, Susie Moore, William H. Payne, Nelson Peery, A. William Perry, Matthew J. Perry, Alex Pitcher, Edward Price, Joseph L. Stephenson, Thomas P. Stoney, Allen Thompson, W. E. ("Burg") Turner, Woodrow Walton, Fred Watt, Charles Wesly, Edgar Whitley, Clyde Whitted, Henry L. ("Hank") Williams, and Jim Williams.
Morehouse's personal file features her correspondence with veterans and research institutions pertaining to her research, her presentations, and writings about African Americans' participation in World War II, particularly her dissertation and book, and her work on an exhibit and book project entitled A War on Two Fronts: Fighting for Victory at Home and Abroad. Also included is a scrapbook relating to Morehouse's father that features government documents, family papers, and photographs pertaining to his army career.
The subject files provide further documentation of Morehouse's research and include files about African American history, military units, and the integration of the armed forces. Subject files featured are the 93rd Infantry Division and Fort Huachuca, Arizona, and the Buffalo Soldiers (92nd Infantry Division). The nickname Buffalo Soldiers was given by Native Americans to African American cavalrymen who served in the American West in the nineteenth century. The most comprehensive files are those about Fort Huachuca and the Buffalo Soldiers. Most of the photographs are copies from the 1940s. Photographs from the 1990s and 2000s mainly document reunions of the veterans.
The digital files mainly consist of audio and video files of interviews conducted by Morehouse with veterans. In some cases, recordings are incomplete or include distorted audio. Also included in the digital files are materials relating to the subject file and Morehouse's writings.
The papers of Edward F. Edinger (1922-1998) span the years 1550-2016, with the bulk of the material dating from 1951 to 1998. The collection relates primarily to Edinger's career as a leading Jungian analyst. He was known for his ability to elucidate C. G. Jung's ideas and concepts in a simple and precise manner, making Jung's work more accessible. The papers also provide insight into Edinger's own theoretical work, including his belief that modern man's psychological disorientation was a result of the loss of a core religious mythology, and his interest in the therapeutic role of alchemy, literature, philosophy, and religion. The collection consists of writings, lectures, correspondence, notes, photographs, military records, slides, digital files, printed matter, and other material. The papers are in English and arranged alphabetically by topic or type of material.
The majority of the papers comprise Edinger's lectures and writings. Most of his books are based on edited transcripts of lectures. Topics include alchemy, archetypes, C. G. Jung's work, collective unconscious, Greek mythology and philosophy, individuation, the psyche, psychotherapy, symbols, and the transformation of the God-image. The collection does not include Edinger's entire body of work. Files pertaining to lectures and seminars contain correspondence, handwritten and typed lectures, research material, and transcriptions. Writings include handwritten and typed drafts along with supporting material. Edinger's handwritten edits are found throughout the writings. Additionally, the papers document Edinger's efforts, as president of the New York Association for Analytical Psychology, to plan a memorial meeting to honor C. G. Jung in 1961. Also included are occasional journal entries. Digital files consist of audio recordings of Edinger's funeral service. The two files were originally received on two CDs and complement the funeral service paper file.
The 2020 Addition further documents Edinger’s career as a Jungian analyst. Edinger's writings in the 2020 Addition relate to Gnosticism, the psyche, and Ralph Waldo Emerson. Edinger saw parallels between Emerson and Jung and credits Emerson with the development of the introverted intuition. Also included in the addition are notes pertaining to three reading courses taught by Edinger to deepen the understandings of Jung's work. Edinger's reflections on the courses and Jung are reflected in the notes, and the notes also include supporting material. Copies and reprints of lectures and writings about and by M. Esther Harding and C. G. Jung along with writings by others feature topics such as alchemy, C. G. Jung, collective unconscious, dreams, Gnosticism, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and schizophrenia. Prominently featured in the addition is Jung's emphasis on alchemy as not just mystical philosophy or chemistry, but as the symbolic representation of the process of individuation, the path towards psychological wholeness. The 2021 Addition contains two letters between Edinger and Russel B. Huff and Clifford Rollins relating to the collective unconscious. Attached to the letters are images of Rollin's paintings with descriptions.
The papers of Henry A. Grunwald (1922-2005) span the years 1922 to 2006, with the bulk of the material dating from 1950 to 2004. The papers are chiefly in English and are organized into the following series: Family Papers, Correspondence, Writings, Ambassador Files, Time, inc. Editorial Files, and Classified.
Family Papers consist of scattered personal correspondence, printed material, primary school and university papers, and personal documents, some dating from Grunwald's childhood in Austria. Correspondents include his father, Alfred Grünwald, and sister, Meta Maass.
The Correspondence series consists chiefly of personal letters, notes, and emails with individuals and organizations. Items in the Correspondence series are not part of the organizational records of Time, inc. The bulk of the correspondence dates from 1984 to 2004, and is grouped into a chronological file and individual and organization files. There are some letters from family members in the chronological correspondence. Correspondents include Madeleine Albright, Leonard Bernstein, Helen Gurley Brown, Katharine Graham, Walter Isaacson, Henry Kissinger, Nancy Reagan, Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., the American Austrian Foundation, and the Council on Foreign Relations.
The Writings series comprises material relating to articles, books, journals, proposed projects, speeches, and student writings authored by Grunwald. Included are articles published in Horizon, Time magazine, and the Wall Street Journal. There is also a significant amount of research material for two autobiographical books, One Man's America and Twilight, and a novel, A Saint, More or Less.
Ambassador Files consist of correspondence, clippings, official documents, and other material from Grunwald's term as United States ambassador to Austria from 1987 to 1990. Included are materials relating to his appointment by President George H. W. Bush.
Time, inc. Editorial Files span the years 1941 to 2005, and document Grunwald's career as managing editor of Time magazine and editor-in-chief of Time, inc. The files consist primarily of photocopies of non-proprietary organizational records held in the Time, inc. Archive, and are organized into the following subseries: Correspondence, Staff Files, Subject Files, and Miscellany. Correspondence is primarily with individuals outside the Time organization, but written in Grunwald’s capacity as a Time, inc. executive and regarding Time publications. Staff Files consist of internal correspondence and memoranda among writers, editors, and general staff. Subject Files include correspondence, notes, clippings, and other materials, concerning events, meetings, groups, organizations, proposed projects, and upcoming articles and publications. The Miscellany series includes calendars and scattered clippings, essays, and speech material.
Scattered correspondence, printed material, school papers, and other personal documents concerning Grunwald's family and personal life, some dating from his childhood in Austria.
Personal correspondence with individuals and organizations.
Articles, books, journals, proposed projects, speeches, and student writings.
Correspondence, clippings, official documents, and other material from Grunwald's term as United States ambassador to Austria.
Correspondence and memoranda primarily with individuals outside the Time organization, but written in Grunwald’s capacity as a Time, inc. executive. This material consists chiefly of photocopies of documents held in the Time, inc. archive.
Correspondence and memoranda among employees of Time Magazine or Time, inc. This material consists chiefly of photocopies of documents held in the Time, inc. archive.
Correspondence, notes, clippings, and other materials, chiefly concerning events, meetings, and publications. This material consists chiefly of photocopies of documents held in the Time, inc. archive.
Calendars, clippings, notes, and speech material.
State Department materials from Grunwald's term as United States ambassador to Austria.
The papers of Walter Sullivan (1918-1996) span the years 1929 to 1997, with the bulk of the material dating between 1948 and 1992. The papers are organized into the following series: Personal File, Correspondence, Book Files, Newspaper and Magazine Files, Television and Radio Files, Alphabetical Files, Digital Files, and Oversize.
The collection primarily focuses on Sullivan’s work as a writer and science editor at the New York Times. The papers chronicle Sullivan’s coverage of a range of topics including space exploration, plate tectonics, black holes, expeditions to Antarctica, the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence, and the International Geophysical Year. Represented to a lesser extent are materials related to Sullivan’s activities as a lecturer and teacher, and his involvement in television, radio, and film. There is little documentation of Sullivan’s life before becoming a full time reporter at the New York Times in 1945.
The Personal File series comprises documentation of Sullivan’s life and work, mostly between 1950 and 1990. The series includes an extensive collection of Sullivan’s notebooks, expense reports, material related to his lectures, and documentation of his involvement in various professional organizations. In addition to general biographical information, the series includes draft copies of his memoirs, though most of these are available in the Digital Files series.
The Correspondence series primarily includes Sullivan’s incoming letters and is organized into chronological and subject groupings. It spans the period 1948 to 1995, with the bulk of the correspondence concentrated between 1957 and 1989 when he was most active in writing about science. The files consist mostly of professional correspondence and internal New York Times memoranda. In many cases, correspondence files exist in other series as they relate to specific projects, especially within the Book Files series.
The largest series of the collection, the Book Files comprise materials related to the books in which Sullivan was author, editor, and contributor. The bulk of the file focuses on his six major publications: Quest for a Continent: The Story of the Antarctic (1957), Assault on the Unknown; the International Geophysical Year (1961), We Are Not Alone: The Search for Intelligent Life on Other Worlds (1964; revised 1993), Continents in Motion: The New Earth Debate (1974; revised 1991), Black Holes: The Edge of Space, the End of Time (1979), and Landprints: On the Magnificent American Landscape (1984). The files primarily include research files, drafts, correspondence, and book artwork. Additional research materials related to the topics explored in the books are also filed in the Alphabetical Files series.
The Newspaper and Magazine Files series primarily comprises materials related to Sullivan’s career as a correspondent and science editor at the New York Times. These include clippings of published articles and raw copy of articles written by Sullivan for the New York Times and various magazines and journals. Most files feature topics related to science with the exception of files focusing on political issues in China, Korea, and Germany in the late 1940s and early 1950s when Sullivan was working as a foreign correspondent in those countries.
The Television and Radio Files series comprises materials related to Sullivan’s involvement and appearances on television and radio programs, mostly from the early 1960s to 1990. The bulk of the series focuses on the unproduced television program “Landprints,” based on Sullivan’s 1984 book of the same title. Additional files related to Sullivan’s television appearances between 1975 and 1990 are located in the Personal File series.
The Alphabetical Files series contains research files regarding a wide range of subjects, individuals, publications, organizations, and projects related to scientific topics featured in Sullivan's writings. The material ranges from 1929 to 1995, with the majority of the files dating between 1950 and 1990.
The Digital Files series consists of digital files stored on floppy disks and mostly includes text files created by Sullivan from the early 1980s to 1993. Memoir drafts and raw copy of articles represent the majority of the files. Also included are correspondence, estate and trustee information, and files related to the television program “Landprints.”
Materials related to Sullivan’s life and work. The lecture materials form a significant portion of this series and primarily comprise notes and logistics for speaking appearances, mostly facilitated by the Keedick Lecture Bureau. Sullivan’s lecture subjects include continental drift, science in the twenty-first century, the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence, black holes, Mars, Antarctica, and in-vitro fertilization. Detailed expense reports provide a record of Sullivan’s travels and assignments while covering stories for the New York Times. The files regarding professional organizations and committees mostly document Sullivan’s involvement in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, National Association of Science Writers, and Yale University Council. The series also contains materials related to seminars and workshops taught by Sullivan on the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence, science writing, and technology and social change. Sullivan’s experience in the Navy during World War II is detailed primarily in his draft memoirs. The notebooks contain handwritten notes related to articles, books, and other projects. However, most are undated. There is little to no documentation of Sullivan’s education or family life.
Writings, correspondence, notebooks, clippings, awards, certificates, biographical material, lecture notes, photographs, reports, schedules, itineraries.
This series comprises letters among Sullivan, colleagues, friends, and leaders in various scientific fields including Victor Frederick Weisskopf, Carl Sagan, and Arthur C. Clarke. Many relate to his professional career as an author, lecturer, and science editor and correspondent for the New York Times. Also includes letters from readers, fans, individuals seeking employment, and many unsolicited articles, essays, and opinion pieces submitted to Sullivan in his capacity as science editor. Memoranda at the New York Times document Sullivan’s role as science editor and include interactions with staff members Turner Catledge, A. M. Rosenthal, C. L. Sulzberger, and Malcolm W. Browne. Subject files contain letters and memoranda from when Sullivan was traveling or on assignment, letters from publishers, and materials related to science coverage. In keeping with the original order, incoming and outgoing letters with individual correspondents are oftentimes grouped together and filed according to the date of the most recent letter. There is no family correspondence in the collection.
Letters, memoranda, itineraries, wire reports, telegrams, cables, invitations, postcards, and various attachments.
This series comprises drafts, research files, book reviews, and marketing, advertising, and promotional materials, mostly for books authored by Sullivan. Correspondence in these files includes letters from subject matter experts who edited or reviewed drafts of manuscripts, permissions for book illustrations and art, and correspondence with publishers. The most documented books are Continents in Motion and Landprints, both of which contain extensive research files. Additional research files associated with Landprints are available in the Television and Radio Files series, which includes files regarding an unproduced television program of the same name. The files related to Quest for a Continent include many of the primary sources Sullivan accumulated during his early Antarctic expeditions, including files on Operation Highjump, and correspondence with Richard Evelyn Byrd, Paul Siple, and George J. Dufek. The files for We Are Not Alone contain many research files on the origin of human life and the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence. Book files featuring Sullivan as contributor include encyclopedia entries and essays on topics including physics, the International Geophysical Year, science fiction, and science in the Soviet Union. At the top of the series is an administrative file documenting contracts, sales figures, book projects, and publisher information.
Writings, correspondence, illustrations, photographs, posters, maps, galley proofs, research files, reviews, clippings, notes, contracts.
This series comprises clippings of articles written by Sullivan, mostly from 1969 to 1981. The earliest articles mostly focus on politics, especially in relation to the Korean War, the Cold War, and the United Nations. Starting in the late 1950s, the articles begin to focus more on science, including exploration of outer space and Antarctica, then branching further into topics related to astronomy, seismology, tectonics, oceanography, and climatology. The bulk of the foreign correspondent materials relate to Sullivan’s time as a correspondent in China. They comprise alphabetical files and copy on labor, trade, land reform, and politics around the time of the People’s Republic of China revolution of 1949. The bulk of the series contains raw copy of articles with Sullivan's edits and annotations. These materials were received in bundles, mostly undated. As a result, they are grouped together in the order they appeared in the original boxes. The series also contains magazine and journal articles published in Free World, Eastern Survey, Foreign Affairs, Everybody’s, Physics Today, Arctic, and Oceans reflecting many of the same topics Sullivan explored in his books and articles. Articles from the Yale Literary Magazine include music reviews written by Sullivan in the late 1930s. Near the end of the series are lists of story ideas and proposals.
Writings, clippings, articles, subject files, notes, periodicals, obituaries.
The bulk of this series documents the development of an unproduced television program based on his book Landprints, including proposals, fund-raising efforts, grant applications, program outlines, research files, and scripts for four episodes. Other television files include broadcast scripts for Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) news programs, the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) program “Prospects of Life on Other Planets,” and the New York University series “By the Year 2000.” Contains radio scripts for WQXR, a New York Times owned radio station and materials related to radio and television interviews, panels, and promotional appearances. This series also includes scripts for the New York Times educational cassette series “Keeping Up with the Times.”
Correspondence, proposals, writings, scripts, photographs, research files, agreements, contracts.
This series contains research files related to many of Sullivan’s projects, focusing mostly on topics related to his books and New York Times articles. The files comprise articles, maps, and other secondary source materials, oftentimes with notations by Sullivan. A large number of files focus on Antarctica, and feature such topics as the Deep Freeze expeditions, Admiral Richard Evelyn Byrd, treaties, photographs, manuals, and tourism. The series also includes many government publications and photographs from New Zealand from the 1940s. The files on unidentified flying objects (UFOs) are extensive and contain many articles, reports, and rare publications. Other major topics include earthquakes, volcanoes, tectonics, planets, telescopes, radioactive waste, Alaska, cosmology, water, and Hawaii.
Research, correspondence, photographs, maps, notes, manuals, articles, pamphlets, press releases, clippings, reports, surveys, journals, newsletters.
The digital files include writings, draft copies of articles, draft correspondence, and documents related to the proposed “Landprints” television program. The bulk of the series contains Sullivan’s memoir drafts, recounting such experiences as expeditions to Antarctica, his service in the Navy during World War II, and time spent as a foreign correspondence in China, Korea, and Berlin. The series also includes files for "Terra Mobilis," a continental drift modeling program. At the time of processing many of the text file formats were inaccessible through available software. Files were most likely created on a WaveMate Bullet computer with a Control Program/Monitor (CP/M) operating system. This computer and these operating systems were popular in the late 1970s and early 1980s. As a result, these raw versions of the files do not appear as intended in their original hardware and software environments, and often include altered formatting and extraneous characters. Files can be opened with a text editor such as Notepad. Request files using the Digital ID.
Maps, posters, photographs, illustrations, and certificates.
The papers of Pamela Harriman (1920-1997) span the years 1909-1997, with the bulk of material dating from 1943 to 1997. The collection documents most phases of Harriman's adult life, including her wartime marriage to Randolph S. Churchill, Winston Churchill's only son; her marriage to agent and producer Leland Hayward from 1960 until his death in 1971; and her marriage to diplomat, politician, and entrepreneur W. Averell Harriman from 1971 until his death in 1986. Also included are extensive records from Harriman's political action committee Democrats for the 80's and files from her role as United States ambassador to France from 1993 to her death in 1997. Largely absent from the collection is material from her childhood, and relatively little is included from her life in Paris during the 1950s. The collection material is in English and French.
The collection is arranged in two parts. Part I comprises the more personal parts of the collection and is arranged in nine series: Personal and Family Papers, General Correspondence, Ambassadorial File, Speeches and Writings, Scheduling and Travel, Miscellany, Artifact, Classified, and Oversize. Part II consists largely of the records of the Democrats for the 80's and is arranged in seven series: Subject File, Administrative File, Projects File, Event File, Lists, Oversize, and Digital Files.
Part I
The Family Papers in the Personal and Family Papers series contain correspondence and related material from Harriman's own Digby family and from the families into which she married. The correspondence chronicles Harriman's relationships within this broad family network that included her son, grandchildren, parents, siblings, in-laws, stepchildren, nieces, and nephews. With the exception of her wartime letters to W. Averell Harriman, however, very little correspondence is included between Pamela Harriman and her husbands. The Digby family correspondence mostly dates after Pamela Harriman's move to the United States in 1959 and contains letters to and from her parents, siblings, nieces, and nephews. The Churchill family material includes two letters from Harriman's husband Randolph S. Churchill to his father Winston Churchill during the war. Harriman's own correspondence with her parents-in-law is more extensive. Most of the letters from the Churchills discuss visits from their grandson Winston S. Churchill and express appreciation for gifts sent by Harriman. A few letters discuss more personal matters including Harriman's divorce from their son and her later marriage to Leland Hayward. The bulk of Harriman's Churchill family correspondence is with her son Winston S. Churchill, her daughter-in-law Minnie Churchill, and her grandchildren. Most of these letters discuss family matters and the activities of the grandchildren.
The Hayward family material includes a small number of items documenting Leland Hayward's career as an agent and producer, including an undated client list. Most of his professional papers, however, were given by Harriman to the New York Public Library following his death in 1971. Notable in this series are letters received during Hayward's last illness and condolence letters received after his death. The letters reflect the breadth of Hayward and Harriman's friendships both within and beyond the world of theater and film. The Hayward family files also contain Harriman's correspondence with her stepchildren, including Brooke Hayward whose 1977 memoir Haywire dwelled in part on her relationship with the last of her stepmothers.
The earliest Harriman family material dates from the Second World War when Pamela and W. Averell Harriman first met. It contains only one wartime communication from Averell Harriman to Pamela Harriman- a brief note annotated by Harry L. Hopkins under whose door it had been placed mistakenly. Far more extensive are Pamela's letters to Harriman and his daughter Kathleen Lanier Harriman Mortimer. The letters begin after the Harrimans moved to Moscow following Averell Harriman's appointment as United States ambassador. In addition to describing her own activities, Pamela's letters recount war news, events in London, and encounters with mutual friends. Kathleen Harriman's letters to Pamela Harriman discuss her life in Moscow where she served as her father's hostess. Included are accounts of her trips to Katyn Forest with journalists in January 1944 and to the Yalta Conference with her father in February 1945. Other Harriman family material postdates Pamela's marriage to Averell in 1971. Included are notes between husband and wife on the occasion of birthdays and anniversaries; a declaration of gift to her in 1982, including works of art; and a large set of files on Averell's death in 1986. Present are condolence letters from prominent friends, political leaders, and heads of state, among them Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev and Margaret Thatcher. Completing the subseries is a small amount of correspondence with members of the Whitney family which has been included in the subseries because of the Whitneys' connections with the Harriman family.
The Personal Papers in the Personal and Family Papers series were kept as a separate set of files by Harriman and her staff. The bulk of the subseries consists of her personal correspondence. Included are wartime letters and notes from Max Aitken Beaverbrook; Charles de Gaulle; Charles Frederick Algernon Portal, Viscount Portal of Hungerford; and William ("Bill") Walton. Most of the correspondence in the subseries dates after Harriman's move to the United States in 1959. This later correspondence includes letters from friends she made during her years in Paris in the 1950s, among them Giovanni Agnelli, Maurice Druon, Stavros Niarchos, André de Staercke, and C. L. Sulzberger. Other friendships, including those with Brooke Astor, Kitty Carlisle Hart, and Katharine Hepburn, followed her marriage to Leland Hayward. Washington friends include Katharine Graham and members of the Kennedy family whom she first knew in postwar Europe. The subseries also contains her correspondence with United States presidents and first ladies, most notably Bill Clinton who served briefly on the board of her political action committee and whose presidential campaign in 1992 she supported as a national co-chair; Lady Bird Johnson with whom she shared an interest in gardening; and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Also found in the Personal Papers subseries are marriage certificates and other records documenting her three marriages, congratulatory letters on her marriage to Averell Harriman, records from the Jansen Shop she owned and operated in New York in the 1960s, a horoscope from 1955 when she was living in Paris, passports and other personal documents, and photographs.
The bulk of the General Correspondence series is concentrated in the years 1971-1993. As such, it reflects her immersion in Washington, D.C., life, her active role in Democratic Party politics as the founder and chair of the Democrats for the 80's, and her involvement in the world of diplomacy and international relations following her marriage to Averell Harriman. The series contains correspondence with politicians, public officials, Supreme Court justices, diplomats, foreign leaders, university presidents, academics, journalists, writers, corporate heads, union presidents, actors and other performers, and an array of Washington insiders. Represented are leading Democrats who served on the Democrats for the 80's board of directors, among them Samuel R. Berger, Clark M. Clifford, Stuart Eizenstat, Abraham Feinberg, Harry McPherson, Edmund S. Muskie, Walter H. Shorenstein, and Robert S. Strauss; Democratic presidential candidates, most notably Al Gore and John D. Rockefeller, IV, both of whom she supported; and Democratic National Committee chairs Ronald Harmon Brown, Paul G. Kirk, and Charles T. Manatt, in addition to numerous Democratic members of Congress, governors, mayors, and other office holders. The series also contains correspondence with diplomats, foreign policy advisors, and academics. Among these are Graham T. Allison, McGeorge Bundy, Richard Helms, Richard C. Holbrooke, and Marshall Darrow Shulman. A large file on the Soviet Union includes correspondence with Anatolii Fedorovich Dobrynin, as well as material on Mikhail Sergeevich Gorbachev's state visit in 1987 during which Harriman hosted a luncheon for Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev. Subject file material in the series includes correspondence, memoranda, agenda, minutes, and reports from various boards and committees on which Harriman served and organizations in which she was active. These include the Atlantic Council of the United States, Brookings Institution, College of William and Mary, Council on Foreign Relations, Menninger Foundation, National Gallery of Art, Rockefeller University, and the Averell Harriman Institute for Advanced Study of the Soviet Union at Columbia University, as well as various Churchill foundations.
The Ambassadorial File chronicles Harriman's role as United States ambassador to France from 1993 to 1997. Included are files from her confirmation hearings and swearing-in ceremony early in the Clinton presidency. Aspects of her official duties as ambassador can be traced through an alphabetical correspondence file, copies of unclassified State Department records, her speeches and writings, a scheduling file, and travel vouchers. A significant portion of the series, including much of her correspondence, is more personal in nature. Very little is included on her death in Paris in February 1997 apart from copies of eulogies.
The Speeches and Writings series contains speeches delivered by Harriman between 1973 and 1992 and articles, largely op-ed pieces, written between 1980 and 1990. Most of the speeches and articles cover similar topics, including Democratic Party politics, foreign relations, and Harriman's recollections of Winston Churchill during World War II. A master speech file contains final versions of her speeches while separate files document the drafting process. Initial drafts were often authored by others, including Robert Shrum, and contain annotations and comments by Samuel R. Berger, Clark M. Clifford, and others. A similar drafting process is evident in files of her articles. The series also contains a draft novel by John Bowles, IV, who served on the Democrats for the 80's board. He sent a copy of the novel with the hope of getting assistance in finding a publisher.
The Scheduling and Travel series consists of engagement calendars, event files, invitations, miscellaneous records and calendars, scheduling binders, and foreign travel files. Harriman's engagement calendars span the years 1959 to 1997, with some years missing. An extensive event file largely documents events hosted by Harriman, but also includes some that she attended as a guest. The bulk of the file dates after her move to Washington, D.C., in 1971, and many of the events were political fund-raisers. The event files in this series overlap considerably with the Event File series in Part II, but are more distilled than the larger working files found in Part II. The trip file at the end of the series documents Harriman's foreign travel, most often to France, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union. Included are itineraries, arrangements, correspondence, and several photograph albums.
The Miscellany series documents many aspects of Pamela Harriman's life. Her wide circle of family, friends, and connections can be traced through her address books which date from the late 1940s to the 1990s, and through Rolodexes, largely from the 1980s and 1990s. Biographical material relates chiefly to proposed and published biographies of Harriman. Included are transcripts of extensive interviews in 1991 with writer Chris Ogden with whom she had contemplated writing her autobiography. Subsequent legal files discuss the termination of their collaboration. Also contained within Miscellany is a series of diary excerpts, memoranda of conversations, and trip reports written by Harriman between 1973 to 1993. Although episodic, the accounts are generally rich in descriptive detail. Guest books record the numerous visitors to Harriman's homes in Barbados, New York, Virginia, and Washington, D.C. Press files include clippings that chronicle her activities from the 1937 to her death in 1997, correspondence with journalists, and some transcripts of interviews. The series also contains scrapbooks, some of which document specific events, others of which are compilations of letters from prominent political figures, many of whom thanked Harriman for supporting their campaigns. Finally, an Artifact series contains a gold medal depicting Konrad Adenauer that Salvador Dali designed in 1967. It is uncertain when Harriman acquired the medal.
Part II
Part II contains the records of the Democrats for the 80's, the political action committee founded by the Harrimans after the 1980 elections when Democrats lost both the White House and Senate. The records provide a case study on the proliferation and evolution of political action committees in the 1980s. More specifically, they chronicle the role played by the Democrats for the 80's in helping to reshape the Democratic Party's agenda, fund its candidates, and introduce modern campaign techniques. Renamed the Democrats for the 90's in 1989, the political action committee was dissolved at the end of 1990. Pamela Harriman continued to support the Democratic Party and its candidates during the early 1990s, most notably Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992. These activities are also documented in Part II.
The Subject File series contains files relating to Democratic committees and organizations, Democratic National Conventions, party conferences and meetings, political analysts and newsletters, political campaigns of various candidates, and a variety of topics including campaign finance, political action committees, polling, and women in politics. The series also features a large reference file of election-year data from 1980 to 1990. Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, and reports from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Democratic Governors' Association, Democratic National Committee, and Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee provide insight into the evolution of Democratic strategy in the 1980s and the ways in which the Democrats for the 80's supported these efforts. Among the project initiatives funded by the Democrats for the 80's was the establishment of the Harriman Communications Center which sought to make state-of-the-art communication technology available to Democratic candidates and members of Congress. Files on the Democratic National Conventions include related material on efforts to improve communications at the 1988 and 1992 conventions. Other topics covered in the Subject File include her membership on the Commission on Presidential Debates from 1987 to 1993 and her support as national co-chair of Bill Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992. The series contains memoranda, correspondence, and talking points from the campaign, and post-election letters from individuals seeking appointments in the new administration.
The operations of the Democrats for the 80's and the shaping of its priorities are documented in the Administrative File series. A large chronological arranged by year contains correspondence, memoranda, board minutes, reports, financial records, and lists of political contributions to candidates by the political action committee and Harriman personally. The founding of the Democrats for the 80's is detailed in chronological files for 1980 while its dissolution is covered in those for 1990. Other material in the series includes bylaws, board lists and resolutions, brochures and newsletters, contributor lists, Federal Election Commission and non-federal filings, office memoranda, and procedural manuals. Legal guidance on federal and state laws governing political action committees is found in a file of correspondence with attorneys for the Democrats for the 80's. Talking points in a press file trace how the political action committee defined itself, its activities, and its political message. The series also contains transcripts of some of the committee's early events and meetings. Washington insider Janet A. Howard served as the political action committee's third executive director. A large chronological file under her name was assembled from unfiled correspondence, reports, notes, and printed matter and reflects her busy schedule and the full array of her activities.
The Project File series features some of the Democrats for the 80's major initiatives. The committee raised funds for federal campaigns as well as those for local and statewide office. Beginning in 1982, it concentrated its fund-raising efforts on Senate candidates, launching the Win the Senate '84 campaign and, in 1984, the Senate Majority '86 initiative. Both projects were supported by direct-mail campaigns well documented in the series. One of the earliest priorities of the Democrats for the 80's was an effort to counter the influence of New Right conservatism in the Republican Party. The Project File includes research files and drafts of a 1981 New Right Manual that provided Democratic candidates with information and talking points on conservative political groups. Related correspondence with and about the National Conservative Political Action Committee, a primary focus of this campaign, is available in the Subject File. In 1982, the Democrats for the 80's produced a more general Democratic Fact Book for use by candidates. Included are working files from the 1982 edition, as well as from its 1984 and 1986 revisions. The Democrats for the 80's partnered with the Democratic National Committee and Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in 1983 in analyzing the legislative records of Republican incumbents in key Senate races. Copies of the reports on Colorado, Illinois, Maine, Mississippi, and New Hampshire are available in the series. The Democrats for the 80's also launched various media campaigns, producing radio and television advertisements and short films, the earliest of which were aimed at the New Right conservatism. A fund-raising campaign to pay for satellite technology at the Harriman Communications Center followed in 1987. The renamed Democrats for the 90's undertook a series of national polling projects in 1989-1990 that included full-scale national polls on voter attitudes, perceptions of the Democratic Party, and the testing of themes. Smaller surveys and focus groups gauged voter opinions on campaign finance reform, capital gains tax cuts, medicare catastrophic coverage, and other issues. The polling projects were coordinated by Peter D. Hart. Finally, files from two major fund-raising events, the celebration of W. Averell Harriman's ninetieth birthday in 1981 and a Democratic gala at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1990, are included in the series because of the size of the events and the complexity of their planning.
The Event File series contains working files from other events, most of which were hosted by the Harrimans and the Democrats for the 80's. The series complements material found in the Scheduling and Travel File in Part I, providing a fuller record through correspondence, memoranda, lists of attendees, financial records, invitations, programs, notes, photographs, seating charts, speeches, publicity, and news clippings. The types of events documented in the series include fund-raising dinners, lunches, breakfasts, receptions, garden parties, and "issue evenings," small gatherings in the Harriman home that featured talks by prominent Democratic leaders. Other event files include material from Democratic National Conventions and election-night gatherings hosted by the Harrimans in their home. Pamela Harriman held a major fund-raising event for Bill Clinton and Al Gore at her estate in Middleburg, Virginia, in September 1992 and a dinner for the president-elect during the Clintons' first trip to Washington after the election. Both events are documented in the series.
The Lists series contains lists from a wide variety of sources including political candidates, office holders, Democratic Party committees and organizations, political action committees, lobbyists, labor unions, corporations, industries, foundations, institutions, and religious organizations. The original titles of the lists or those supplied by the Democrats for the 80's have been retained. Although the use of these lists by the Democrats for the 80's is rarely indicated, they were most likely culled for fund-raising campaigns, invitation lists, and general networking. Database lists created by the Democrats for the 80's are also included as well as lists identified as "Harriman contacts" that are filed by state.
The collection contains a small Digital Files series. The digital content was originally stored on thirty-nine 5.25" disks and comprises just over one thousand files dating from 1982 to 1990. Several disks represent an attempt to systematically backup files from a staff member's personal computer. The remainder are more random assortments of the office's work product. Word-processed documents include drafts of fund-raising letters and event correspondence, biographical statements, newsletters, press releases, speeches, and talking points. Topics include the Party of the Decade at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, annual dinners, and other events hosted by the Democrats for the 80's, the National Polling Project, and satellite communication projects. Also included are lists of names and addresses and databases of contributors dated 1985-1986. Data from three magnetic tape reels are currently unprocessed and unavailable.
Correspondence, notes, lists, speeches and writings, photographs, and printed matter pertaining to the Churchill, Digby, Hayward, Harriman, and Whitney families.
Correspondence; lists; photographs; business records; passports and visas; birth, marriage, and naturalization certificates; a horoscope; a jewelry appraisal; and printed matter.
Correspondence and related material including agenda, minutes, reports, programs, speeches and writings by others, awards, photographs, and printed matter.
Primarily copies of outgoing correspondence, with some incoming correspondence particularly for the later period.
Correspondence, confirmation hearing briefings, swearing-in ceremony planning files, speeches and writings, copies of official records, media summaries, scheduling and travel records, financial disclosure reports, eulogies, call lists, notes, photographs, an inventory, and printed matter.
Largely drafts and final copies of speeches and writings, principally articles and op-ed pieces.
Engagement calendars, scheduling binders, invitations, miscellaneous notes and calendars, and event and trip files containing correspondence, itineraries, programs, lists, photographs, and printed matter.
Address books and Rolodexes; biographical statements; interview transcripts and correspondence related to proposed biographies; card files; diary excerpts, memoranda of conversations, and trip reports; files from Harriman's personal desk; guest books from her various residences; press clippings, interview requests and transcripts; scrapbooks; and telephone call sheets.
Gold medal depicting Konrad Adenauer and designed by Salvador Dali.
Correspondence, cables, memoranda, an operational order, and talking points.
Oversize items consisting of Rolodex and other card files, photograph albums, scrapbooks, awards and certificates, correspondence, news clippings, and other printed matter.
Correspondence, agenda, minutes, reports, briefing binders, proposals, polls, event programs, brochures and other campaign literature, newsletters, lists, speeches and writings by others, news clippings, and other printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, minutes, proposals, resolutions, financial and legal records, a corporate seal, Federal Election Commission filings, brochures and newsletters, transcripts of events and meetings, press contact lists and talking points, other lists and card files, procedural manuals, notes, and printed matter documenting many aspects of the founding, activities, operations, and eventual dissolution of the Democrats for the 80's (Democrats for the 90's after 1989).
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, financial records, briefings, research files, photographs, lists, press releases and clippings, and printed matter relating to major projects undertaken by the Democrats for the 80's.
Correspondence; memoranda; lists of invitees, attendees, and contributions; invitations; programs; agenda; notes; photographs; seating charts; speeches; publicity material; and news clippings.
Lists of political officeholders and candidates, political fund-raising contributors, labor unions and officials, political action committees, lobbyists, organizational and institutional board members, professional groups, corporate leaders, and other categories, most of which were acquired by the Democrats for the 80's from other sources, but some of which are described as "Harriman contacts" or in-house lists.
Fund-raising, event, and congratulatory letters sent; internal memoranda; lists of names and addresses; lists of political candidates and races; contributor and contribution databases; draft newsletters, press releases, speeches, and talking-points; transcript of a CSPAN interview; biographies of Harriman, and financial reports. The 1,142 files were received on thirty-nine 5.25" floppy disks. Most of them were created with WordPerfect and dBase software programs. Each disk was assigned a unique digital ID number. Access to digital content is available onsite only in the Manuscript Reading Room and requires advance notice. Use the digital ID number to request access copies of the files.
Card files, a financial ledger, posters, and lists.
The papers of Edwin J. Feulner, Jr., (1941-) span the years 1934-2014, with the bulk of the material dating from 1966 to 2012. The papers are organized into the following series: Personal File, Chronological File, Heritage Foundation, Organizations, Other Professional Files, Speech and Trip Files, Writings, and Digital Files. The collection documents Feulner's career devoted to conservative public policy and the rise of the Heritage Foundation as the leading conservative think tank and public policy research organization during Feulner's presidency.
The Personal File series is a compilation of material relating to Feulner's personal life and interests, his education, and other records documenting his life and accomplishments. A section of family papers includes Feulner's correspondence with his parents, siblings, children, and several uncles who were Catholic priests, with the largest portion being copies of letters and notes sent by him. A general correspondence file contains his correspondence with friends, associates, businesses, and organizations spanning over forty years. Diary entries for the years 1980-1982 offer Feulner's reflections on his work on the presidential transition team and his meetings and interactions during the early years of the Ronald Reagan administration. A grouping of appointment books and daily schedule card files is most extensive for Feulner's time at the Heritage Foundation, although there are gaps in coverage. Biographical information files and a collection of press clippings and other items mentioning Feulner help to provide an overview of his life and activities.
The Chronological File series consists of correspondence spanning the years 1965-2013 that provides an in-depth look at Feulner's personal and professional endeavors before and during his years at the Heritage Foundation. A majority of the copies of this outgoing correspondence appears on pink paper.
The Heritage Foundation series constitutes the bulk of the papers and documents the work of this conservative public policy think tank promoting a strong national defense, tax cuts and reform, welfare reform, free trade, free enterprise, free markets, less government, and traditional values. Folders for this series are stamped with the letters THF, the abbreviation used by Heritage Foundation staff to indicate the foundation. Highlights include the Board of Trustees files, correspondence, reports, financial records, meetings, notebooks, administrative memoranda, and a people file. The Board of Trustees files provide insight into the policy- and decision-making processes of the foundation and includes budget proposals, committee meeting files, correspondence shared with the board, financial reports, and memoranda sent to the board members by Feulner. The committee meeting files are largely comprised of briefing booklets prepared for individual meetings. Feulner's memoranda to the members is a chronological file of individual memoranda that in some instances has other material attached. Correspondence shared with the board consists of letters and copies of letters that Feulner passed on to board members. Actual correspondence relating to the Board of Trustees is part of the Heritage Foundation's main correspondence file that is arranged into Board of Trustees, general, internal memoranda, members of Congress, miscellaneous, and White House. The correspondence file covers a myriad of conservative issues and policies and documents the internal workings of the Heritage Foundation. The general correspondence, arranged chronologically by year and therein alphabetically, was designated by Feulner's staff as "whites" because his replies appeared on white paper. Providing further insight into the foundation are the annual, quarterly, and weekly reports. The 2011 annual report is absent. Some of the quarterly reports are incomplete, and the weekly reports for the years 1980-1995, 2007, and 2011-2013 are absent. The financial records, consisting mostly of cash reports and monthly reports, are incomplete. The meetings file consists mostly of agendas, some with attached material or short notes penned by Feulner, for the senior management, weekly management, and other meetings of the Heritage Foundation. The weekly management meetings are often designated as MMM referring to Monday management meetings. Contained in Feulner's notebooks are further notes on these and other meetings. The administrative memoranda, miscellaneous correspondence, and miscellany were created from unfiled material found in the papers.
The Heritage Foundation's people file is comprised of correspondence, clippings, speeches, and other material concerning prominent conservatives as well as Heritage Foundation board members. It is a compilation of overlapping files originally grouped under the headings people, very important persons, and board members. Correspondents include Richard V. Allen, Belden Bell, William J. Bennett, David R. Brown, William F. Buckley, Jr., George Bush, Joseph Coors, Philip M. Crane, Shelby Collum Davis, Midge Decter, Milton Friedman, Newt Gingrich, Jack Kemp (1935-2009), Russell Kirk, Friedrich A. von Hayek, Robert Henry Krieble, Ernest W. Lefever, Lewis E. Lehrman, Donald J. Lipsett, Clare Boothe Luce, Edwin Meese, John William Middendorf, Ronald Reagan, Henry Regnery, J. Frederic Rench, Thomas Anderson Roe, Donald Rumsfeld, Thomas A. Saunders, III, Richard M. Scaife, Frank J. Shakespeare, William E. Simon (1927-2000), Margaret Thatcher, and Paul M. Weyrich. Arrangement is alphabetical by name of person and therein chronologically.
The Organizations series contains files relating to Feulner's membership in various organizations, boards, councils, commissions, and committees outside of the Heritage Foundation. Featured in this series are the Aequus Institute, Alpha Kappa Psi, Clare Boothe Luce Program of the Henry Luce Foundation, Council for National Policy, Credit International Bank and Sequoia National Bank, George Mason University, Institute for European Defence & Strategic Studies, Intercollegiate Studies Institute, National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform, Philadelphia Society, Regis University, Sarah Scaife Foundation, and the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. Included in this material are board and committee reports, memoranda, meeting documents, financial records, correspondence, legal records, and other general information regarding these organizations and Feulner's involvement in them.
The Other Professional Files series is comprised of files pertaining to Feulner's professional employment in the years prior to 1977 and assignments in later years outside of the Heritage Foundation. The earliest material pertains to Feulner's initial work relating to conservative public policy, as a public affairs fellow, first at the Center for Strategic Studies at Georgetown University and then assigned to the staff of Melvin R. Laird, head of the House Republican Conference, in the United States House of Representatives. Other sections focus on his years as legislative assistant and administrative assistant for Representative Philip M. Crane and his time as president of the Schuchman Foundation Center for the Public Interest. The largest portion of this series concerns Feulner's years as executive director of the Republican Study Committee, a conservative caucus in the United States House of Representatives, from 1974 to 1977. Included are briefing books for members, material relating to the Republican Study Committee's Campaign Fund for 1976 Congressional elections, files pertaining to policy issues, and a chronological grouping of work papers that document the work of the group. This Republican Study Committee material is closely related to documents pertaining to Feulner's doctoral dissertation and subsequent book on the Republican Study Committee located in the Writings series. Other files relating to assignments Feulner undertook during breaks from his Heritage Foundation duties cover his work on Ronald Reagan's presidential transition team and two White House consultancies during the Reagan administration as well as his work as staff director and counselor to Republican vice presidential candidate Jack Kemp during the 1996 presidential campaign. A subject file is comprised mainly of research files on issues of interest to political conservatives, that Feulner compiled during the years he was working as a public affairs fellow and in Congressional staff positions with the House Republican Conference and the Republican Task Force on East-West Trade. There are also files related to other projects and topics of interest. Individuals featured in this series include Richard V. Allen, Philip M. Crane, Jack Kemp, and Melvin R. Laird.
A Speech and Trip Files series combines several overlapping speech, trip, and event files. The series covers various speaking engagements, trips, and other activities Feulner attended as president of the Heritage Foundation and as a member of numerous other organizations. Many of the events and engagements occurred in the Washington, D.C. area, but Feulner also traveled extensively around the United States and internationally. On his international trips, he generally traveled to multiple cities and countries. Feulner's focus on Asia is recorded by his many trips to South Korea, Hong Kong (China), Taiwan, Japan, China, and Thailand. Some speeches and conference files can be found in the Organizations series.
The Writings series is comprised of articles and columns, book reviews, books, essays, manuscripts, and a dissertation written by Feulner. Topics include conservative public policy, Congress, the United Nations, China, South Korea, the Soviet Union, foreign trade, economics, national defense, and the Republican Study Committee. By far the largest amount of material consists of Feulner's research and drafts for his doctoral dissertation "Evolution of the Republican Study Committee" that evolved into his book Conservatives Stalk the House: The Republican Study Committee. Most of the research material for the dissertation and book was pulled from Feulner's files as executive director of the Republican Study Committee. The bulk of the committee's files are located in the Other Professional Files series.
The Digital Files are comprised of audio files, video files, and text files largely relating to Feulner's speeches and speaking engagements and the 1996 vice presidential campaign of Jack Kemp.
Correspondence, appointment books and schedules, diaries, biographical information, academic files, family papers, awards, press clippings, memorabilia, and mailing lists.
Copies of outgoing correspondence beginning prior to Feulner's years at the Heritage Foundation and referred to by his staff as "pinks" because a majority are on pink paper. The years from 1986 to 1988 are absent.
Correspondence, administrative memoranda, Board of Trustees files, meeting files, agendas, annual, quarterly, and weekly reports, notebooks, people file, financial records, legal records, office and departmental files, project files, recommendations, résumés, weekly calendars, clippings, subject files, notes, mailings, and printed matter, covering from the early days of the Heritage Foundation until 2013.
Meeting minutes and related material, reports, correspondence, memoranda, notes, financial records, legal records, printed matter, and other papers pertaining to Feulner's membership in various organizations, boards, commissions, committees, and clubs outside of the Heritage Foundation.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, briefing books, subject files, and other papers pertaining to Feulner's professional employment in the years prior to 1977 and assignments in later years outside of the Heritage Foundation. Focusing primarily on conservative public policy, a major portion of the files relate to his work in the United States House of Representatives, with largest portion focusing on Feulner's years as executive director of the Republican Study Committee.
Speeches and drafts, itineraries, agendas, conference packets, correspondence, invitations, printed matter, memorabilia, photographs, and other material pertaining to events, speaking engagements, and trips attended by Feulner.
Articles and columns, book reviews, books, a dissertation, drafts, essays, manuscripts, card files, contracts, correspondence, notes, and research material.
Audio files, video files, and text files. The files are copied from a variety of storage media. Each media was assigned a unique digital ID number. Request files using the digital ID number. For file directory listings of each storage media, see Appendix A: File Directory Listings.
Two video files attached to letters sent to Feulner. These files were extracted from optical disks. A container number and folder description are provided as a reference to the original location in the paper files. Each media was assigned a unique digital ID number. Request files using the digital ID number.
Audio files, video files, and text files. The audio and video files show speeches, introductory remarks, and interviews given by Feulner and his appearance on various discussion panels. These files were extracted from optical disks. The text files from the 1996 vice presidential campaign of Jack Kemp are Word and WordPerfect document files. Another text file is a WordPerfect document listing appointments to the various committees of the Board of Trustees at the Heritage Foundation in 1998. These files were extracted from 3.5" floppy disks. Set B files are from storage media received independent of the paper files. Each media was assigned a unique digital ID number. Request files using the digital ID number.
The papers of Theodor Reik (1888-1969) span the years 1905-1994, with the bulk of the material dating from 1939 to 1969. The collection documents Reik's contributions to psychoanalytic theory and practice as a lay analyst and researcher, and as one of Sigmund Freud's first students. The papers date largely after Reik's immigration to the United States in 1938, but also include material from his earlier years in Austria, Germany, and the Netherlands. Much of the collection focuses on Reik's prolific writing for both professional and popular audiences. Many of these works explore Reik's theories on the psychological differences between men and women and were published as gender relations were being transformed in the postwar years. Included are partial drafts of many of Reik's books, reprints and copies of his published articles, notes, and research files, as well as correspondence, publishing contracts, royalty statements, certificates, interviews, photographs, and news clippings. The collection is in English and German, with English predominating after 1938. It is arranged in four series: Personal and Family Papers, Gustav Mahler, Writings File, and Oversize.
The Personal and Family Papers series contains material from Reik's personal files as well as those of his son Arthur Reik who served as his father's literary agent and later as the literary executor for his estate. The series represents a small portion of what must have once comprised Reik's personal files, but nevertheless provides insights into his career and the reception of his work, particularly in the United States. Highlights of the series include correspondence from colleagues, publishers, and readers of Reik's books; royalty statements; book reviews and publicity materials about his books; oral history interview transcripts; and newspaper articles about him. Also included are certificates, 1908-1912, from Reik's studies at the University of Vienna.
The Gustav Mahler series is the most intact portion of the collection and consists of Reik's research and writings on the composer's life and work. Included are concert programs, journal articles, booklets, and news clippings about Mahler and performances of his works, some dating from the 1920s and 1930s, as well as Reik's research notes and drafts of his writings. Among these writings are an article on Sigmund Freud's analysis of the composer and a file of handwritten draft manuscripts in German that eventually became The Haunting Melody: Psychoanalytic Experiences in Life and Music (1953), Reik's book on Mahler that explores the nature of musical associations.
The Writings File is the largest series in the collection and includes drafts of some of Reik's books, articles, introductions, and speeches; printed copies of his journal, newspaper, and magazine articles; three notebooks; and a large volume of notes. Reik wrote in English and German, switching largely to English after 1938. Copies of Reik's published articles and commentary span his publishing career from 1911 to 1968. The series' book files, however, date largely after his immigration to the United States and focus in particular on his writings on Judaism and gender relations. The surviving book drafts and notes suggest several ways Reik emulated his mentor Sigmund Freud's approach to writing. Reik, like Freud, preferred to compose on large sheets of paper. Many of Reik's writings, therefore, are stored in the Oversize series. Also like Freud, Reik showed an apparent disregard for his drafts and notes after a work was published. Reik's writing files arrived at the Library minimally organized and described and in poor physical condition. Yet most of the bundles of otherwise unidentified drafts and notes seemed to have distinct focuses, making it possible to associate them with specific writing projects. Even so, many of the books in the collection are only partially documented, at times with no more than several pages or a single chapter. Exceptions are Reik's books Jewish Wit and Pagan Rites in Judaism which have more complete drafts and The Many Faces of Sex, The Need to Be Loved, and Part IV in Of Love and Lust on Reik's theories regarding the emotional differences between men and women. Files for these latter three books consist of randomly organized notes and partial drafts rather than complete manuscripts. The large volume of notes stored in the book files and in separately organized note files capture the unfolding of Reik's thought process. According to Reik, he would record his thoughts, insights, and observations in note form, often in the evenings after a full day of seeing patients. The first drafts of his books grew out of these notes. Also included in the series are writings by others. Some of these article-length works explore Reik's contributions to psychoanalysis. Also included are writings by two women who, at one time, may have been Reik's analysands.
Correspondence, interviews, certificates, publishing contracts, royalty statements, reviews of Reik's books, publicity materials, a tribute on his seventieth birthday, brochures, programs, a photograph, postcards, and news clippings from the personal files of Reik as well as those of his son Arthur who served as Reik's literary agent and later as the literary executor for his estate. Most of the material in the series dates after Reik's immigration to the United States and, although not extensive, sheds light on Reik's contributions to the growing popularity of psychoanalysis in postwar America. A small general correspondence file focuses largely on Reik's research and writing and includes several letters from colleagues, among them psychoanalysts K. R. Eissler, Joost Abraham Maurits Meerloo, and Jule Nydes. Also included are letters, some with extensive commentary, from people who read Reik's books. Among these is a letter from novelist Herbert Gold on Psychology of Sex Relations which Gold read in 1945 while serving in the army at Camp Albert C. Ritchie, Maryland. Other correspondents include physicist Abraham Pais. Posthumous correspondence is addressed to Arthur Reik and includes condolence letters on Reik's death in 1969, letters from scholars about Reik's work, and correspondence about Arthur's interest in Gustav Mahler which he shared with his father. The reception of Reik's work can be traced through book contracts and correspondence with publishers, royalty statements, book reviews, and news articles about him.
Reik's life in Europe before his immigration is documented through certificates from his studies at the University of Vienna; newspaper articles, 1913-1938, about or referring to him; and later interviews with Reik in which he discussed his family and childhood, studies at the University of Vienna, relationship with Sigmund Freud, analysis with Karl Abraham, controversies surrounding lay analysis, his research and writing on psychoanalysis, and other aspects of his life and work. A small amount of family papers includes his first wife Eleanore Oratsch Reik's residential certificate in 1915, a copy of Arthur Reik's 1936 marriage certificate, and letters from Reik to his son in 1939-1941 urging his immigration to the United States from Palestine.
Drafts of writings, notes, photographs, and collected printed matter consisting of newspaper clippings, concert programs, journal articles, and booklets stemming from Reik's research and writings on Gustav Mahler. Reik's research on the composer stretched over many years, beginning before his immigration in 1938 and culminating in the publication of The Haunting Melody: Psychoanalytic Experiences in Life and Music in 1953. Included in the series is a set of five binders containing notes, drafts, printed matter, and photographs stored in topically labeled folders. The contents of Binder A focuses largely on Mahler's biography, commemorations of the seventy-fifth anniversary of his birth and twenty-fifth anniversary of his death in 1935-1936, and writings about the composer by Guido Adler, Max Graf, Arnold Rosé, and Bruno Walter, among others. Binder B covers a wide variety of topics, including anecdotes about Mahler, his relationships with Hans von Bülow and Sigmund Freud, his religious and superstitious inclinations, his years in Vienna, and a planned memorial. Files on Mahler's symphonies and other compositions are housed in Binder C. Binders D and E contain Reik's notes on Mahler which he taped to numbered sheets. The tape has been removed, but the original order of the notes has been maintained. In addition to the binders, the series includes loose notes and drafts, largely in German, and additional printed matter including booklets, journals, reprints, catalogs, concert programs, news clippings, and a facsimile edition of Mahler's Symphony no. 10.
Handwritten notes, notebooks, and German and English manuscripts, handwritten and typed drafts of books and articles, copies of articles published in journals and magazines, two speeches, introductions to works by others, and a file of writings by others. Like his mentor Sigmund Freud, Reik often wrote on large sheets of paper so a significant portion of the series is stored in the Oversize series. Some of the oversize material is in fragile condition and should be handled with care.
The Writings File, with its collection of notes, early drafts, and, in some cases, near-complete book drafts, reflects Reik's writing process. Reik wrote notes on scraps of paper and grouped them into packets by topic, most numerously on Judaism and the relationship between men and women. These original groupings have been retained and are identified by the topical headings created by Reik. The notes consist largely of Reik's own reflections and observations as well as insights gleaned from psychoanalytic sessions and his readings. The topics discussed in the unidentified manuscript pages mirror those found in the note packets, with a majority of the pages focusing on the relationship between men and women. Many of these unidentified handwritten pages have no title, page number, or other identifying characteristics that might tie them to a particular article or book of Reik's, and so have been separated by language and then grouped into sets based on the original order as received. Identified manuscript drafts of books and articles are sorted by title; however, even when identified, a majority of the book drafts are incomplete and some contain only a few miscellaneous pages.
While most of the material in the series was generated after Reik's immigration to the United States in 1938 and before his death in 1969, some newspapers, magazines, and journal articles as well as writings by others extend before and after those dates. Reik began writing literary and general articles for Viennese newspapers and magazines soon after completing his doctorate in 1912, and continued publishing in newspapers and magazines after his immigration. Included in the collection is a series of articles on “Men, Women and Love” published in the New York Herald Tribune in 1958. Other topics covered in his magazine and journal articles include couvade, gender relations, guilt, humor, masochism, and puberty rites. Some of the newspaper and magazine articles are in very poor physical condition and have been photocopied for ease of use.
The file of writings by others includes article-length drafts and reprints, some of which pertain to Reik or topics of interest to him. Also included in the file are journal-like letters and manuscripts by two women who may have been Reik's analysands. Barbara Ivins' writings contain the reflections of a young woman living in wartime New York in 1944. Dorothy Jeffery's letters and manuscripts, written in 1954, discuss her thoughts on the relation between men and women, her marriage, and life in California.
Drafts of handwritten manuscripts on oversize sheets of paper, often filed with accompanying notes and printed matter; newspaper and magazine clippings of articles by Reik; and a certificate.
The records of the Citizens Party span the years 1976 to 1993, with the bulk of the material ranging in date between 1979 and 1981. The collection is arranged alphabetically by topic or material type, with a significant portion concentrated in a grouping representing papers maintained by Dan Leahy, executive director, national secretary, and executive committee member of the party from 1979 to 1981.
The collection primarily chronicles the Citizens Party’s organization at the national and local level, the formation of its platform, and its campaign efforts, especially during the 1980 presidential election. Very little material related to the party’s activities beyond 1983 and ultimate disbandment in 1987 is represented in these records. Material types include correspondence, Executive Committee and Steering Committee meeting notes, campaign strategy files, local chapter procedures and records, financial records, membership directories, newsletters, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
The papers of Seymour Martin Lipset (1922-2006) span the years 1824-2013, with the bulk of the material dating from 1985 to 2001. The papers pertain to Lipset's career as a sociologist and political theorist and his body of work, including his work on American exceptionalism, democracy, Judaism in America, political extremism, the politics of academe and intellectuals, social mobility and stratification, socialism, and trade unions. He was most recognized for his comparative studies of democracy and its relationship with economic development. A son of Jewish Russian immigrants, Lipset grew up immersed in the political discussions of his Bronx neighborhood. This environment along with his continuing political interests would later affect the substance of his academic career and interests. Included in the papers are correspondence, writings, speeches, teaching material, notes and notebooks, photographs, projects and studies, printed matter, and other papers. The papers are in English and are organized into the following series: Correspondence, Speech and Engagement File, Subject File, and Writings.
The Correspondence series primarily documents the range of Lipset's activities after his appointment as the Virginia E. Hazel and John T. Hazel Jr. Professor of Public Policy at George Mason University, Fairfax, Va. in 1990. Correspondence include exchanges between Lipset and colleagues, government officials, publishers, students, various organizations, and the public. In some cases, Lipset's handwritten draft of a letter or response is accompanied by the typed version along with supporting material. Topics include academe, the American Jewish community and history, Canada, political extremism, neoconservatism, socialism, and other various aspects of sociology or political science. Correspondents include Amitai Etzioni, Larry Jay Diamond, Drora Kass, Everett Carll Ladd, Juan J. Linz, Noah M. Meltz, Earl Raab, David Riesman, and many others. The majority of the correspondence in the collection is professional in nature, but some letters provide insight into the Lipset's mentorship of students and collaborative attitude with other colleagues. Additionally, some of Lipset's letters to publishers show his keen interest in the production and distribution of his books.
The Speech and Engagement File consists of speeches, published and unpublished conference papers, correspondence, printed matter, and other complementary material pertaining to Lipset's many engagements, lectures, and talks. The progression of Lipset's speeches and papers are represented by handwritten, typed, and edited drafts along with final versions of papers or speeches in the collection. Topics featured are American exceptionalism, the American Jewish identity and community, comparative studies of the United States and Canada, democracy, presidential elections, socialism, social mobility, the state of sociology, and student involvement in politics.
The Subject File series includes awards, clippings, correspondence, interviews of Lipset by others, notes, photographs, project files, proposals, teaching material, and printed matter relating to Lipset's career and research interests. Files document Lipset's thoughts about the controversial elections of Samuel P. Huntington to the National Academy of Sciences in 1986 and 1987; involvement and affiliations with different professional organizations; projects and studies, particularly his multi-year project with Drora Kass to study Israelis in America; research interest in social mobility and stratification; and teaching files, primarily from his tenure at George Mason University, Fairfax, Va. Also included are a report, transcript, correspondence, and other documentation of Lipset's involvement in two federal cases related to the Canadian Wheat Board in 1996 and 1998.
The Writings series consists of the bulk of the papers. During Lipset's academic career, he authored, coauthored, edited, or coedited over fifty books and 500 articles. He wrote prolifically to contribute a wide range of ideas and findings and to have an intellectual impact in the fields of sociology and political science. The series is comprised of abstracts, articles, books, notes and notebooks, reprints for the Seymour Martin Lipset Lecture on Democracy in the World, and writings by others.
In 1992, a festschrift, Reexamining Democracy: Essays in Honor of Seymour Martin Lipset, was published in Lipset's honor. The festschrift includes an appendix listing Lipset's articles from 1947 to 1991 in a chronological and numerical sequence. Later this list was expanded to include publications up to 2001. Drafts and printed copies of articles arranged according to the numerical sequence of the festschrift appendix are located in the collection under the Festschrift file. Also included in some folders are reprints and translations. The collection includes the majority, but not the complete run of articles in the festschrift appendix. Additionally, some article and folder titles are slightly varied from how they are listed on the appendix.
The collection also contains published and unpublished articles which were not included in the festschrift appendix. These articles are housed under Other articles. Another category of articles in the series reflects Lipset's interest in academia and intellectuals, a topic which dominated much of his research agenda in the 1970s. Lipset and Everett Carll Ladd conducted national surveys of college and university faculty in 1969, 1975, and 1977 and gathered information about the educational, social, and political perspectives of professors. The surveys were usuallly referred to as the Ladd-Lipset surveys, and Lipset and Ladd wrote two series of articles about their 1975 and 1977 findings for the Chronicle of Higher Education. Other related surveys were also conducted in 1972, 1976, and 1979. Drafts and copies of the articles, correspondence, questionnaires, tabulations, reports, codebooks, and other material relating to the surveys are in the papers.
The book file contains reviews of most of Lipset's books from the 1950s to the 1980s. For books published in the 1990s and 2000s, more complete files containing handwritten drafts; typescripts; galleys; correspondence with publishers and collaborating authors or editors; material relating to studies and projects conducted for the books; and other research material are available. Prominent in the series are files related to It Didn't Happen Here: Why Socialism Failed in the United States, Lipset's multifaceted answer to Werner Sombart's question, "Why is there no socialism in the United States?". The papers document Lipset's initial work in the 1970s and collaborations with Gary Marks in the 1990s to finally finish the book. Also included are various drafts of the preliminary or completed book and chapters from the 1970s to the 1990s.
Lipset's other topics of interest are also featured in the book file. His career-long interest in comparing the United States and Canada is reflected in The Paradox of American Unionism: Why Americans Like Unions More Than Canadians Do, But Join Much Less, written with Noah M. Meltz, Rafael Gomez, and Ivan Katchanovski. Conditions for democracy are covered in files related to The Democratic Century. Most of the manuscript for this book was completed by Jason M. Lakin after Lipset suffered a debilitating stroke in 2001. Lipset also collaborated with Earl Raab to document the American Jewish experience and community in the United States in Jews and the New American Scene. Furthermore, Lipset's attempt to explain contemporary America, including addressing various aspects of American exceptionalism, is reflected in American Exceptionalism: A Double-Edged Sword.
Handwritten and typed correspondence, including supporting material, between Lipset and colleagues, government officials, publishers, students, and the public.
Speeches, papers, correspondence, printed matter, and other supporting material.
Correspondence, clippings, interviews, notes, photographs, printed matter, projects file, teaching material, and other papers.
Handwritten drafts, typescripts, galleys, printed copies of writings, correspondence, notes and notebooks, research material, reviews, printed matter, and other supporting material.
The papers of Edward Ellsberg (1891-1983) span the years from 1891 to 2008, with the bulk of the material dating from 1926 to 1998. Ellsberg earned the reputation as one of the United States Navy’s premier experts on salvage operations and deep-sea rescue work. The collection, largely contained in notebooks, documents Ellsberg’s career as an officer in the United States Navy, his activities as a consulting engineer, and his authorship of articles and popular books relating to his salvage exploits while in the Navy and fictional writings about maritime topics. Also present are files relating to a 1998 biography about Ellsberg entitled Salvage Man: Edward Ellsberg and the U.S. Navy by John Doughty Alden, a few writings by Ellsberg’s wife, Lucy Buck Ellsberg, and correspondence of Edward Ellsberg Pollard, grandson of Ellsberg, regarding Ellsberg. The collection includes correspondence, memoranda, lectures, articles, book drafts, short stories, play drafts, radio scripts, notes, military papers, patents, notes, digital files, newspaper clippings, and printed matter. The papers are in English and are arranged as follows: notebooks, Salvage Man John Doughty Alden file, writings by Edward Ellsberg, and writings by Lucy Buck Ellsberg.
The notebooks are arranged by number and therein by topic or type of material. Documented in the notebooks are Ellsberg’s two tours of duty in the navy (1914-1926 and 1941-1951). Topics featured are his endeavors in solving the ventilation problems in 1924 of the steamer Leviathan while serving at the New York Naval Shipyard, in New York, New York, his successful salvage of the submarine S-51 in 1926, and his service during World War II at Mits'iwa in Eritrea, North Africa, and Normandy. During the Normandy invasion, Ellsberg used his expertise to create artificial harbors to facilitate the movement of supplies and troops. Other notebooks include files relating to his work as an engineering consultant, patents relating to his development of salvage equipment, his lectures, and his work as an author. Notebooks one through five, twenty-one, forty-five, and part of number seven, were not received by the Library.
Most of the notebooks, however, pertain to Ellsberg’s articles, books, short stories, book reviews, and correspondence about his writings. Books featured are On the Bottom (Ellsberg’s non-fiction account of the raising of the S-51), Under the Red Sea, No Banners, No Bugles, and The Far Shore (three non-fiction books about Ellsberg’s World War II service). Also present in notebooks numbered fifty-nine through sixty-two are drafts and correspondence about John Doughty Alden's biography Salvage Man: Edward Ellsberg and the U.S. Navy.
Other files complimenting the Salvage Man notebooks are paper and digital files of Ellsberg's biographer, John Doughty Alden. Alden gave his paper and digital files to Edward Ellsberg Pollard. Alden's papers include drafts, research files, and digital files that he used to write the biography and are filed under Salvage Man John Doughty Alden file. The digital files are word processing files received on five and a quarter inch disks. They include articles by Alden (based on his research for the biography prior to its publication), book drafts, and research material. Research material in the digital files consists mainly of notes, interview transcripts, outlines, and lists. The paper research files are larger and more substantive than the digital research files.
The majority of Ellsberg's book drafts, handwritten and typed, are filed near the end of the collection under writings by Edward Ellsberg. Papers pertaining to his fictional works include: Captain Paul (about John Paul Jones), Thirty Fathoms Deep (about a sunken submarine), and Pigboats (the basis for the movie Hell Below). Non-fiction works represented in Ellsberg's writings are Men Under the Sea (a collection of salvage stories), Passport for Jennifer (Ellsberg’s endeavors to bring a young British orphan to the United States), On the Bottom (the salvage of the S-51), and those relating to his World War II service (previously mentioned in the notebooks). The writings also include drafts of plays, radio scripts, and short stories by Edward Ellsberg. Also included in the collection are a few writings by Ellsberg's wife, Lucy Buck Ellsberg. Pollard's correspondence about his grandfather is scattered throughout the notebooks, although notebook number sixty-three is exclusively such correspondence.
The papers of Stephen Hess (1933-) span the years 1961 to 2016. The papers are in English and are organized into the following three series: Brookings Institution, George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs Interviews, and White House Files.
Brookings Institution files consist of research material for various projects and books authored by Hess while a Brookings Institution fellow. Hess's research pursuits chiefly concern foreign correspondents in the United States and Washington, D.C. area reporters. The material includes the results of surveys of foreign correspondents conducted in 1982, 1992, and 1999. There are also transcripts, responses, and results of surveys and interviews with reporters conducted in 1978, from 1987 to 1989, and from 2005 to 2006. Other research materials concern the impact of local television news, presidential campaigns and election coverage, and congressional press secretaries. There are also notes, drafts, and other research material for the following books: The Government/Press Connection: Press Officers and Their Offices, Live From Capitol Hill!: Studies of Congress and the Media, International News & Foreign Correspondents, and Through Their Eyes: Foreign Correspondents in the United States.
The George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs Interviews consist of forty-four digital video interviews of journalists and authors conducted for Stephen Hess's course on career patterns in journalism from 2006 to 2009. The interviews were conducted by Hess in a studio or classroom with an audience present. Hess asked participants to speak about their professional lives, which generally concerned government and politics. Interviews usually included a question-and-answer session with students and audience members. Some files contain video playback errors, such as dropouts, interference, static or color shifting, and audio errors, such as pops, clicks or clipping. Files are as they were received from the donor.
White House Files consist chiefly of memoranda and correspondence with White House officials, cabinet secretaries and undersecretaries, and members of Congress during Stephen Hess's tenure in the Nixon administration from 1969 to 1971. As Deputy Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs and subsequently chairman of the White House Conference on Children and Youth, Hess worked closely with Daniel P. Moynihan and John Ehrlichman. The material is mostly arranged in alphabetical, chronological, personal, and subject files. There are also files related to Hess's work with various groups, organizations, government agencies, and commissions, including the White House Urban Affairs Council. Personal files include material concerning a 1969 trip to Japan, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
Reporter interviews, surveys, and research material chiefly, concerning foreign correspondents and news media coverage of government and politics in the United States.
Digital videos of interviews with authors and journalists, conducted as part of Stephen Hess's course on career patterns in journalism at the George Washington University School of Media and Public Affairs.
Alphabetical, chronological, personal, and subject files from Stephen Hess's tenure as Deputy Assistant to the President for Urban Affairs in the Nixon administration.
The papers of Louis Simpson (1923-2012) span the years 1922-2011, with the bulk of the material dated between 1937-2011. The papers contain correspondence, working drafts of various poems and prose, administrative material regarding publishing and publications, reviews, translations, interviews, memorabilia, copyright permissions, collected material, and subject files related to Simpson's career as an author and professor. The papers are organized into five series: Correspondence, Writings File, Professional File, Subject File, and Oversize.
The Correspondence series, arranged both alphabetically and chronologically, contains personal and professional correspondence with Louis Simpson’s many friends and associates in the literary world. Among the noted figures in the Correspondence series are: Saul Bellow, Brian Cox, Serge Fauchereau, Thomas Flanagan, John Haines, Hiram Haydn, Seamus Heaney, David Ignatow, Carolyn Kizer, Lotte Kramer, Elizabeth Kray, J. T. Ledbetter, Alison Lurie, James Nolan, Micheal O'Siadhail, Robert Pack, Allan Temko, Claire Nicolas White, Jon Manchip White, and James Wright. Featured within this series are correspondence with the poets Robert Bly, Donald Hall, Jane Kenyon, and writer Carol Bly, with whom Simpson wrote to frequently with throughout his life. The early correspondence between Simpson and his Columbia University mentor, Mark Van Doren are also included. Beyond the listed correspondents and personal correspondence, other material appearing in the Correspondence series features various aspects of Simpson’s professional life, potentially including material also found in the Professional File series such as speaking engagements, correspondence with publishers, and various administrative affairs.
Also included in the Correspondence series are letters between Louis and his family, notably his mother, Rosalind de Marantz, and his children, Anthony, Anne, and Matthew Simpson. Rosalind de Marantz lived in New York while Louis Simpson was a teenager at Munro College in Jamaica and later moved to Italy when Louis was an adult. While Louis served in the U.S. Army during World War II, he frequently wrote to his mother and the extended Marantz family.
The Writings File contains primarily working and edited drafts of various poems, prose, and other types of writings spanning Louis Simpson’s entire career. The papers document Simpson's evolution as a poet, moving from conventional poetic forms to a more Walt Whitman-influenced free verse style. Featured are Simpson’s drafts for books including Adventures of the Letter I, Caviare at the Funeral, Searching for the Ox, and At the End of the Open Road, for which he won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Other featured works within the series include several unpublished notebooks, translations, and reviews of and by Simpson. Many of the papers included in the Writings File arrived at the Library in a state where it was extremely difficult to identify from which books, if any, many of the drafts originated. Effort was made to identify where possible what books belonged to which set of drafts; however, if a book could not be positively associated with a set of drafts, it was placed at the end of the series under the "working drafts" heading and arranged by circa date. Drafts of individually titled works can be found under the "poems, prose, and other writings" heading, but may also appear among the "working drafts." Documentation of Simpson's works published in anthologies, print magazines, newspapers, and poetry journals, are located under the features in "books and periodicals" heading. Poems and prose sent to Simpson from colleagues, fans, and friends, appear under the "other people's writings" heading.
The Professional File covers the administrative dealings of Simpson’s career in both the literary and academic world. Included in this series are various administrative memoranda regarding Simpson’s published works. Additionally featured is professional correspondence between periodicals that frequently published Simpson’s poems, including the American Poetry Review, American Scholar, New York Times, The New Yorker, Hudson Review, The Ohio Review, and The Gettysburg Review. Additional material related to publishing may be found within the general publishing correspondence folders.
Material concerning Simpson's academic career within the Professional File relates to both his time as a student at Columbia University and professorships he held at the University of California, Berkeley and State University of New York at Stony Brook. Also covered are Simpson’s Pulitzer Prize, his serving as a jury member for various literary awards, and his various engagements including poetry readings, speeches, and award ceremonies. Many of the poetry readings are documented on index cards with the date, location, and titles of poems read. Simpson's involvement in professional organizations such as the Academy of American Poets and the Guggenheim Foundation are documented as well.
The Subject File contains items collected from Louis Simpson’s personal filing cabinets, including memorabilia, scrapbooks, and printed material on various topics of interest. Major aspects of this series include Simpson’s awards, travel files, personal papers related to himself and his family, interviews, articles about Simpson, and personal recommendations for other poets, authors, and students.
The Oversize series contains two items: an undated poster for a poetry reading featuring a caricature of Louis Simpson and a woodcut-print portrait of Walt Whitman by Mark Nuccio, gifted to Louis Simpson in 1982 by members of the Walt Whitman Birthplace Association.
Personal and professional correspondence with friends, associates, and family.
Working and final drafts of poems, prose, essays, translations, reviews, and other types of published and unpublished writings.
Materials spanning Louis Simpson's career as a writer and professor. Includes correspondence and related material with publishers and publications, professional organizations, judging panels, speaking engagements, poetry readings, and copyright permissions. Also includes memoranda and administrative files produced during Simpson's tenure at the University of California, Berkeley and State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Collected material, personal papers, scrap books, memorabilia, and various files originating from Louis Simpson's personal filing cabinets.
Poetry reading poster, and a woodcut-print portrait of Walt Whitman created by Mark Nuccio.
The papers of Charles Augustus Hill (1833-1902) span the years 1863-1971, with the bulk of the material dating between 1862 and 1865. The papers include correspondence, transcripts of the correspondence, and miscellaneous material chiefly documenting Hill's service as a Union army officer in the 1st Colored Infantry Regiment, United States Army. The papers consist primarily of letters written by Hill to his wife Lydia Hill during the Civil War. The subjects covered in Hill’s letters include major battles in which his regiment participated during its two years of service, including the assault on Petersburg, Virginia, in June 1864. A letter written in May 1864 refers to the retribution taken by Black troops after the Fort Pillow Massacre, Tennessee, in April 1864. Hill often provides his view of the Black troops serving under him and their treatment throughout the war. Other letters describe camp life in the Union army and his time spent as a patient in Chesapeake Hospital, Hampton, Virginia, from July to November 1864. Hill’s letters written between July and September 1865 describe his role as acting superintendent for the United States Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands in Elizabeth City, North Carolina. These letters provide insight into the political tension in the South immediately following the Civil War, as well as a glimpse into Hill’s view of the early Reconstruction era. The papers also include family correspondence consisting mostly of letters written by Hill to his family while serving as assistant attorney general of Illinois in 1898.
The 2022 Addition, 1862-1863, complements the initial portion of the collection and includes additional correspondence and related transcripts from Hill to his wife Lydia relating his experience during the Civil War and his role as acting superintendent for the United States Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands in Elizabeth City, North Carolina. The subjects covered in Hill’s letters depict major battles such as the Battle of Antietam (September 1862), the Battle of Wilson's Wharf (May 1864), and the capture of Fort Fisher, North Carolina (January 1865). Military maps and histories included in later publications are attached to several of Hill's letters and add context to the military engagements described in them. These include a June 1863 battle map of Brandy Station, Virginia, from Fairfax Downey's Clash of Cavalry (1959), as well as two entries from John Barrett's The Civil War in North Carolina (1963).
The papers of Ernest John Swift span the years 1908 to 2019, with the bulk of the material dating between 1920 and 1941. The collection documents Swift’s career as an administrator in the American Red Cross, as well as his personal life. The papers are primarily in English, with some material in French. The papers consist of eight series: Personal File, Correspondence, Clippings File, Publications, Travel File, Photographs and Negatives, Subject File, and Oversize.
The Personal File contains materials related to Swift’s personal life. It includes awards, certificates, and medals presented throughout his career, passports and other types of identification documents, calling cards and invitations, letters of condolence regarding Swift’s operation and death in 1941, and obituaries. This series also contains a scrapbook documenting Swift’s time as a student at Stanford University, as well as materials relating to Swift’s wedding and marriage to Helen Griffin Swift in 1927.
The Correspondence series includes both personal and business or Red Cross related materials.
The Clippings File contains copies of newspaper clippings regarding Swift’s personal life, career, accomplishments, and travels. It also includes some clippings regarding Helen Griffin Swift’s Red Cross volunteer work.
The Publications series consists of works and writings authored by Swift, publications produced by or relating to the Red Cross, and other miscellaneous publications.
The Travel File contains clippings, correspondence, photographs, and other materials related to Swift’s travels abroad, generally on Red Cross related business. Noteworthy materials include those relating to Swift’s 1934-1935 trip to Japan and India, for which he was vice president of the 1934 International Red Cross Conference in Tokyo, Japan. Additional materials in this series capture his relief and survey work for the Red Cross in Albania, Montenegro, the Dominican Republic, and China.
The Photographs and Negatives series features portraits of Swift, some Red Cross related images, and other miscellaneous or personal materials.
The Subject File documents some significant individuals or events in Swift’s life, including his brother, Percy Swift, as well as a series of letters from 1940-1941 detailing the efforts to get Mimi de Gielgud out of occupied France and to America in order to marry William van Doren Wright.
Awards and certificates, identification documents, letters of condolence regarding Swift's 1941 operation and death, obituaries, calling cards, invitations, miscellaneous material, and an oversize scrapbook.
Correspondence includes both personal and business-related materials.
Contains copies of newspaper clippings.
Contains notes, speech materials, and printed matter.
Contains clippings, correspondence, photographs, negatives, and miscellaneous material.
Contains photographic prints and negatives.
Contains clippings, photographs, correspondence, invitations, and other miscellaneous materials.
Contains medals, awards, photographs, and a scrapbook.
The Look Magazine records span the years 1934-1970, with the bulk of the material dating from 1948 to 1970. The collection documents Look’s writing, editorial, and research processes in this time period. The collection is organized into four series: Writer Files, Subject Files, Chronological Files, and Roland H. Berg Files.
This collection does not represent a comprehensive accounting of Look’s editorial practices. Each series only covers a portion of the magazine’s thirty-four year history with certain writers or editors more prominently featured in the materials, including William Attwood, Roland H. Berg, Bill Davidson, Peter Maas, and Hartzell Spence.
The Writer Files are primarily drafts of articles under consideration for publication in Look organized by the name of the writer. Published and unpublished articles by both staff and freelance writers, often with editorial notes, are included in the series. Some of the files also include correspondence and research documentation. Writers represented in this series include Catherine Drinker Bowen, Louise Katherine Bruner, Raymond A. Bruner, Charles Franklin Kettering, Margaret Long (Leonard), and Dorothy Thompson.
The Subject Files consist of research and editorial files related to a specific topic or article. This includes general topical research, research about individuals, letters to the editor, and field notes. Materials about the American zeitgeist feature prominently, as well as research about rocket technology in the post-World War II era.
The Chronological Files primarily consist of interoffice memos related to research, current events, and ideas for articles that are filed by month and year. They are to and from a variety of people at the magazine and cover a wide variety of topics including, but not limited to, cosmetics, crime, history, international affairs, politics, popular culture, and sports.
The Roland H. Berg Files document his role as the medical editor of Look and portions of his career as a medical writer and journalist. The writings section consists of materials written by Berg including articles for Look and other publications and correspondence and press regarding the books he wrote about the polio epidemic. The charity racket story material includes a typescript of the article by Peter Maas (“The Battle for Your Charity Dollar”), letters to the editor in criticism of the published article, and research materials, including Maas’ original notebooks. Berg was the editor assigned to the piece and was responsible for responding to the critical response it received. The general and topical files in the series include research files about the drug industry, health insurance and birth control, miscellaneous correspondence, and Berg’s membership certificates for The New York Academy of Sciences and The National Association of Science Writers.
The Writer Files are primarily drafts of articles under consideration for publication in Look. Published and unpublished articles by both staff and freelance writers, often with editorial notes, are included in the series.
Material types include drafts, correspondence, notes, interoffice memos, and clippings.
The Subject Files consist of research and editorial files related to a specific topic or article. This includes general topical research, research about individuals, letters to the editor, and field notes.
Material types include correspondence, clippings, drafts, interoffice memos, and notes.
The Chronological Files primarily consist of interoffice memos related to research, current events, and ideas for articles that are filed by month and year. They are to and from a variety of people at the magazine and cover a wide variety of topics.
Material types include interoffice memos, correspondence, notes, and photocopies of reference sources.
The Roland H. Berg Files document his role as the medical editor of Look and portions of his career as a medical writer and journalist, including writings by Berg, material regarding stories he managed, and general research.
Material types include correspondence, drafts, notes, clippings, notebooks, field notes, and certificates.
The papers of Louis Patrick Gray III (1916-2005) span the years 1931-2008. The collection focuses on Gray's time as acting director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) during the administration of President Richard M. Nixon and the impact of this period on his life in the following years. The papers are organized into eight series: General Correspondence, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Legal File, Speeches and Writings, Alphabetical File, Closed, Classified, and Oversize.
While the L. Patrick Gray III Papers contain material relating to his military career in the United States Navy, his work as a lawyer in private practice, and his positions in the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and the Department of Justice in the early years of the presidency of Richard M. Nixon, the major focus of the papers is Gray’s experience as the acting head of the FBI, following the death of J. Edgar Hoover, from May 1972 to April 1973. The Watergate Affair is a key topic; the papers chronicle the FBI investigation into the break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters, Gray’s actions at the time, and his recounting and explanation of these events during testimony at congressional hearings and before grand juries, while under investigation by the Watergate Special Prosecution Force, and in preparation for writing a book. The changes and tensions in the FBI following the death of J. Edgar Hoover are another topic covered in the material. The collection also chronicles Gray’s indictment, along with W. Mark Felt (associate director of the FBI), and Edward S. Miller (head of the FBI's Domestic Intelligence Division), for allegedly authorizing break-ins aimed at locating Weather Underground (Weatherman) fugitives while he was acting director of the FBI. Originals and copies of memoranda, reports, notes, testimony, and correspondence relating to Gray’s actions and those of others in the FBI in response to events in 1972 and 1973 appear in numerous series throughout the collection because Gray used documents from his personal FBI files as background and exhibits in hearings and legal proceedings and as resource material for a prospective memoir. Some documents contain dated comments written by Gray when he reviewed them in later years. Additional material was compiled by his son, Ed Gray, in the preparation of Gray’s posthumous memoir. W. Mark Felt figures prominently in the collection.
A small General Correspondence series contains letters received by Gray and copies of his responses. They are primarily of a personal nature and most date from the 1970s and 1980s. Correspondents include FBI agents and officials, figures from the Nixon administration, and friends. A number are letters of support and congratulations when the charges against Gray were dropped in 1980. A file of correspondence with W. Mark Felt also contains notes on telephone conversations and copies of letters Gray sent to his lawyer in response to one of Felt’s letters.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation series comprises files generated during Gray’s year as acting director. Position papers on issues, practices, and proposed changes at the FBI, memoranda to special agents in charge, notes Gray took at meetings, and notes he added to routing slips illuminate the actions of the FBI under his leadership. Information relating to the Watergate Affair is scattered throughout the collection, but among the material found in this series is the Watergate detailed memoranda file Gray used at his confirmation hearings, general investigation division summaries of the break-in investigation, a compilation of questions and answers, and digital files containing scans of the FBI’s Watergate file obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request. Other files relate to the hijacking of aircraft, the George C. Wallace assassination attempt, the American Indian Movement occupation at Wounded Knee, South Dakota, and the Weatherman. Also included are a compilation of press clippings about Gray and the FBI during that period, congratulatory correspondence, and letters sent to Gray after the withdrawal of his nomination. Some documents that had once been part of Gray’s FBI files are now part of other series. The Legal File series contains documents Gray used as exhibits when he testified before the Watergate hearings of the Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities, as documentation submitted in response to the investigation by the Watergate Special Prosecution Force, and as part of his defense in the United States v. Gray. Although United States v. Gray centered on actions taken with regard to the Weatherman, documents pulled together as general exhibits also pertain to the FBI response to other events including the Watergate burglary investigation and the American Indian Movement occupation at Wounded Knee, South Dakota. Speeches delivered by Gray as acting FBI director and documents he gathered as resource material for his memoir are located in the Speeches and Writings series.
The Legal File series documents Gray’s involvement in congressional hearings, grand juries, investigations, and federal and civil legal cases in the years after his resignation from the FBI that stemmed from his tenure as acting director. Gray's relationship with his lawyers is evident throughout the series. Notes Gray wrote for his lawyers describe his memories and thoughts about the issues under consideration and explain the documents he reviewed to prepare for testimony or plan his legal defense. His detailed notes of telephone conversations and correspondence with his attorneys recount his feelings about the legal investigations and prosecution as well as statements about him in the press. Gray’s files are supplemented by those kept by his lawyer, Stephen H. Sachs. The bulk of the files relate to the Watergate Affair and United States v. Gray. FBI memoranda, notes, and reports relating to the investigation into the break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters, press reporting on the investigation, and leaks to the press are included in a set of numbered exhibits pertaining to Gray’s Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities. Additional documents relating to Gray’s actions were submitted in response to requests by the Watergate Special Prosecution Force and are filed with material on that investigation. Among the files compiled during the course of United States v. Gray are discovery documents and exhibits pertaining to the FBI procedures and the response to terrorism and events of the period. Gray v. Bell, the lawsuit Gray filed against Attorney General Griffin Bell and others after the charges against him were dropped, is among the material pertaining to civil litigation in which he was involved. Transcripts and notes about grand jury testimony are filed in the Closed series.
The Speeches and Writings series features writings, recordings, and resource material that Gray created and compiled for a book project he began in the 1970s and early 1980s but discontinued until the end of his life when his son, Ed Gray, resumed work on the memoir and published In Nixon’s Web: A Year in the Crosshairs of Watergate three years after his father's death. Among the book project material are handwritten narratives, sample chapter drafts, recordings, and edited transcripts of tape recordings Gray made in 1978-1979. A numerical file contains resource material that Gray compiled; original folders with his original labels have been retained. Among the material relating to In Nixon’s Web are digital files documenting Ed Gray’s research and resource material, including scans of documents from Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein’s papers at the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas at Austin, and transcripts and recordings of conversations from Nixon’s White House tapes. Typescripts of speeches and remarks delivered by Gray while at the Department of Justice and the FBI are also part of this series.
The Alphabetical File series contains material pertaining to other phases of Gray’s life, including his tenures as executive assistant to secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Robert Finch, and assistant attorney general for the Department of Justice's Civil Division. Appointment books, photographs, and a scrapbook supplement those files. A grouping of military papers document Gray’s twenty-year career in the United States Navy and includes copies of Gray’s letters to friends and relations that provide details about his family life. Files from the Pat Gray Legal Defense Fund document the effort by United States Naval Academy classmates and other supporters to ease the financial burden of years of legal defense. A press problems file reveals Gray's reaction to statements about him in the press, and his annotations in books written by others about the FBI offer Gray's thoughts on their accounts of him and his tenure there. Material from the last year of Gray's life focuses on his private and public response to W. Mark Felt's announcement in 2005 that he was "Deep Throat," the informant who assisted Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein with their reporting on the Watergate Affair.
The remaining series comprises a Closed segment of material relating to grand jury testimony, Classified documents, and Oversize items.
The General Correspondence series contains letters received by Gray and copies of his responses, primarily of a personal nature, and mostly dating from the 1970s and 1980s. A few notes about telephone conversations and other related material are filed with the correspondence.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation series comprises files generated during Gray’s year as acting director from May 1972 to April 1973. Types of material include correspondence, memoranda, reports, daily logs, notes, press clippings, and digital files.
The Legal File documents Gray’s involvement in congressional hearings, grand juries, investigations, and federal and civil legal cases in the years after his resignation from the FBI that stemmed from his tenure as acting director. Types of material include correspondence, memoranda, legal papers, notes, FBI documents used as exhibits, discovery documents, background material, statements, transcripts, and lawyer's files.
The Speeches and Writings series features the writings, recordings, and resource material that Gray created and compiled for a book project he began in the 1970s and early 1980s but discontinued until the end of his life, when his son, Ed Gray, resumed work on the memoir. Ed Gray's files relating to In Nixon’s Web: A Year in the Crosshairs of Watergate, published three years after the death of L. Patrick Gray, are also part of this series. Copies of the speeches and remarks that Gray delivered while serving at the Department of Justice and the FBI are also filed here. Types of material include book drafts, memoir drafts, notes, transcripts, resource files, speeches, and digital files that include scanned documents, sound recordings, and video files.
The Alphabetical File series contains material pertaining to other phases of Gray’s life, including his twenty-year career in the United States Navy, his tenure as executive assistant to the secretary of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and as assistant attorney general for the Civil Division at the Department of Justice, and his private legal practice. Types of material include correspondence, memoranda, appointment books, certificates, printed matter, photographs, a scrapbook and other memorabilia, and digital files.
The Closed series contains transcripts and notes about grand jury testimony pertaining to the Watergate Affair and the methods used to locate Weatherman fugitives while Gray was acting director of the FBI.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, and hearing transcripts pertaining to the work of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and testimony before the House Committee on Armed Services Special Subcommittee on Intelligence and a Senate Committee on Appropriations subcommittee regarding aspects of the investigation of the Watergate Affair.
Certificates, photographs, a scrapbook documenting Gray's experience as executive assistant to the secretary of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and as assistant attorney general for the Civil Division at the Department of Justice, and a bumper sticker from that period.
The papers of Art Buchwald (1925-2007) span the years 1885 to 2007, with the bulk of the material dating from 1962 to 2000. The collection documents Buchwald’s career as a humorist and columnist, as well as many aspects of his personal life and relationships. The papers are organized into nine series: General Correspondence, Writings, Buchwald v. Paramount Pictures Corporation, Administrative File, Speeches, Personal File, Subject File, Digital File, and Oversize.
The collection extensively documents Buchwald’s work as a syndicated columnist in Europe (1949-1962) and the United States (1962-2006), as well as his work as an author, playwright, and public speaker. These papers primarily focus on Buchwald’s professional pursuits, especially his years in Washington, D.C., while working for the Washington Post, though evidence of his personal relationships with entertainers, political figures, print and broadcast journalists, musicians, literary figures, friends, and family members form a significant part of the collection. These papers further illustrate the many connections Buchwald made during his life in Paris, France, Washington, D.C., and summers in Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. Buchwald’s papers also broadly chronicle his youth and include material related to his childhood in the Hebrew Orphan Asylum and New York City’s foster care system, service in the United States Marine Corps during World War II, education at the University of Southern California, and his efforts to establish himself as a writer in Paris in the late 1940s and 1950s. Buchwald’s illnesses later in life, stay in hospice care, and death in 2007 are also documented in this collection. To a lesser extent, these papers reflect Buchwald’s lifelong struggle with depression. Though more minimally documented, this marks an important aspect of Buchwald’s life and character.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The General Correspondence series is composed primarily of incoming letters Buchwald received from friends, colleagues, and relatives. The series is organized into three major groupings: VIP, Close friends, and Chronological. The “VIP” and “Close friends” designations were maintained as received and include letters from a wide variety of notable political and public figures.
The Writings series forms the largest portion of the collection and documents Buchwald’s work as a columnist, novelist, autobiographer, and playwright and documents his many articles, books, columns, memoirs, plays, and screenplays.
The Buchwald v. Paramount Pictures Corporation series chronicles a lawsuit Buchwald and producer, Alain Bernheim, filed against Paramount Pictures in 1988 for breach of contract in the development of a treatment for the film Coming to America.
The Administrative File largely pertains to Buchwald’s career management, finances, and public persona.
The Speeches series documents events and engagements for which Buchwald served as a speaker or master of ceremonies, was honored, or attended and includes remarks and scheduling information related to his many appearances at events, conferences, conventions, organizational meetings, charity benefits, award banquets, and commencements.
The Personal File chronicles Buchwald’s childhood in foster care in New York City, service in the United States Marine Corps during WWII, education at the University of Southern California, early career in Paris, France, family, health, and death.
The Subject File holds a wide range of files pertaining to Buchwald’s personal interests, organizations and charities he supported, and organizations in which Buchwald was indirectly or directly involved, among other topics.
The Digital File series contains the contents of a personal computer and word-processing disks created and used by Buchwald between 1987 and 2006.
The remaining series houses Oversize and unusually formatted material.
The General Correspondence series is composed primarily of incoming letters Buchwald received from friends, colleagues, and relatives. The series is organized into three groupings: VIP, Close friends, and Chronological. The “VIP” and “Close friends” designations were maintained as received and include letters from a wide variety of notable political and public figures. The VIP grouping is further arranged into an alphabetical file and a chronological file. Correspondents represented in the VIP alphabetical file include Alain Bernheim, Benjamin C. Bradlee, Katharine Graham, Ann Landers, Gordon Manning, Florence Leola Starling, David L. Wolper, members of the Kennedy family, several cartoonists, and members of Congress, among others. The VIP chronological file also contains letters from many notable figures. Appendix A contains a partial list of significant correspondents found in the VIP chronological file. Al Hix and Lucy D. and Sheldon Hackney, among others, appear in the Close friends file. Though efforts were made to reduce overlap of correspondents across groupings, names may appear in more than one of the groupings in this series.
Letters across the General Correspondence series are largely personal in nature and chronicle Buchwald’s relationships with entertainers, political figures, print and broadcast journalists, musicians, literary figures, and friends. This series broadly reflects Buchwald's many circles of friends, especially those associated with Paris, Washington, D.C., and Georgetown specifically, summers in Martha's Vineyard, and Hollywood, as well as others working in the news industry. Topics covered vary based on the correspondent, but many letters detail life in Paris, time in the United States Marine Corps, shared personal history or acquaintances, projects and events in which Buchwald participated, and responses to his columns and books. The humor shared between Buchwald and his friends is well documented in this series.
The Writings series forms the largest portion of the collection and documents Buchwald’s work as a columnist, novelist, autobiographer, and playwright and documents his many articles, books, columns, memoirs, plays, and screenplays. A nearly complete chronological run of Buchwald’s columns is contained in this series and dates between 1949 and 2006. The columns take the form of newspaper clippings and drafts bearing Buchwald’s edits. Russian translations of Buchwald’s columns as they appeared in Soviet periodicals, especially Prâvda, are also included. These translations date primarily between 1958 and 1969 and were sent to Buchwald by a variety of sources, among them, Radio Free Europe, the United States Information Agency, and a reader named Misha Allen. Material related to Buchwald’s numerous books, most of which are anthologies of his columns and articles, are also contained in this series and are largely documented by correspondence with publishers, friends, and readers, book reviews, and other publishing work product. Buchwald’s memoirs, Leaving Home, I’ll Always Have Paris, and Too Soon to Say Goodbye, are heavily documented in the Writings series and include digital and analog manuscript drafts, letters from readers, and background research. Unpublished works include a collection of letters titled “Read Between the Lines” and an autobiography titled “Revenge is Sweet.” Many of Buchwald’s play scripts and screenplays are also represented in this series, with Sheep on the Runway, which was performed on Broadway from 1969 to 1970, and his first play, No Love Atoll, performed at the University of Southern California Varsity Show in 1948, among the most well documented. Researchers should note additional column drafts and book manuscripts can be found in the Digital File series. Some of Buchwald's earliest writings, including articles written while in the United States Marine Corps and as coursework while at the University of Southern California are found in the Personal File.
Material types include articles, book manuscripts, book reviews, columns, correspondence, digital files, lists, newspaper clippings, photographs, and printed matter.
The Buchwald v. Paramount Pictures Corporation series chronicles a lawsuit Buchwald and producer, Alain Bernheim, filed against Paramount Pictures in 1988 for breach of contract in the development of a film treatment. The suit was filed in the state of California on Buchwald’s claim that Paramount Pictures based their film Coming to America on his and Bernheim’s treatment titled “King for a Day,” thereby violating their contract agreements providing them compensation and credit if Paramount Pictures produced a movie based on their creative work. Buchwald was ultimately awarded damages in 1992. This series comprehensively documents the legal proceedings of the suit and includes draft copies of Buchwald's "King for a Day" and the screenplay directly based on his treatment, the initial complaint filed in 1988, briefs, motions, memoranda, depositions, and court transcripts. Correspondence from friends and colleagues reflect reactions to the suit and its outcome and a collection of clippings and a scrapbook chronicle press coverage of the case.
Material types include briefs, correspondence, dispositions, memoranda, motions, newspaper clippings, and transcripts.
The Administrative File documents Buchwald’s management of his career, finances, and public persona. This series extensively chronicles Buchwald’s financial status, speaking engagement logistics, and publishing matters such as copyrights, royalties, and syndication. A chronological file focuses on Buchwald’s speaking engagements and finances and includes contracts, correspondence with event organizers, travel itineraries, monthly expense records, and monthly financial statements, which list sources of income, net worth, and expenses. Evidence of Buchwald’s public persona and celebrity is found in a publicity file, which comprises newspaper clippings featuring articles about Buchwald, biographical material, interview transcripts, and digital audio and video files of interviews with Buchwald, especially toward the end of his life while in hospice care. Contracts, storyboards, correspondence, programs, brochures, and screenplays reflecting a number of television, radio, stage, and screen production projects are also found in this series and include correspondence and program synopses of Buchwald’s radio program Buchwald On. Projects documented in this series range from Buchwald’s active involvement and creative participation to projects where he granted permission to others to use his works. Material in this series reflects Buchwald’s involvement in production projects from an administrative perspective and does not include Buchwald’s creative works. Researchers should consult the Writings series for Buchwald’s creative works as an author and playwright and the Speeches series for transcripts of Buchwald’s remarks at speaking engagements.
Material types include contracts, copyright renewals, correspondence, digital files, expense reports, financial statements, itineraries, newspaper clippings, photographs, and royalty statements.
The Speeches series documents events and engagements for which Buchwald served as a speaker or master of ceremonies, was honored, or attended and includes remarks and scheduling information related to his many appearances at events, conferences, conventions, organizational meetings, charity benefits, award banquets, and commencements. A number of Buchwald’s speeches were given at professional organization meetings or for organizations that played important roles in his life such as the Hebrew Orphan Asylum of New York and the New York Herald Tribune. Some of Buchwald’s remarks were given in recognition of awards he received and include honorary degrees, the National Press Club's Fourth Estate Award, and the Horatio Alger Award. Tributes or remembrances given by Buchwald in honor of friends or family members are also documented. Of note is a script Buchwald revised for a production in partnership with the Boston Pops Orchestra of Saint-Saens’ Carnival of the Animals, which includes numerous scripts, correspondence, and press clippings related to the program. Major themes and topics in the speeches include childhood and leaving home, Buchwald’s service in the United States Marine Corps, his years spent in Paris, France, politics and life in Washington, D.C., and depression and mental health.
Material types include speeches, in both complete and fragmented form, speech cards, notes and transcripts, programs and invitations, correspondence, clippings, photographs, and negatives.
The Personal File documents Buchwald’s youth, early career in Paris, France, family, health, and death. The bulk of the material chronicles Buchwald’s childhood in the Hebrew Orphan Asylum’s foster care system, service in the United States Marine Corps, and years at the University of Southern California. Documents and printed ephemera reflecting Buchwald’s fourteen years in Paris (1948-1962) are comprised in this series and document his work as a critic and humorist for the New York Herald Tribune, as well as his household and family life at that time. The Personal File also contains Buchwald’s family papers, which include letters with his sisters, in-laws, and other family members and documents collected and created by Buchwald’s wife, Ann. Ann Buchwald’s papers contain correspondence with Art and other members of her family, as well as transcripts and drafts of her memoir, Seems Like Yesterday. Early examples of Buchwald’s writings are found throughout the Personal File beginning with a poem written when he was twelve years old, circa 1937. Several newsletters for which Buchwald wrote while in the United States Marine Corps, including The Coral Courier and The U-Man Comedy, are also in this series. His academic essays, produced for courses in creative and script writing at the University of Southern California, are well represented, as are pieces written for school publications, The Daily Trojan and WAMPUS. This series also includes early columns Buchwald wrote while in Paris. These consist of articles written in 1948 when he was a stringer for Variety and article drafts for the New York Herald Tribune.
Material types include address and appointment books, correspondence, digital files, family papers, honorary degrees and awards, oral histories, medical files, military documents, identification cards, marriage documents, photographs, and wills.
The Subject File holds a wide range of files pertaining to Buchwald’s personal interests, organizations and charities he supported, and organizations in which he was involved, among other topics. Buchwald’s many charitable contributions are documented in this series and include scholarships he funded, undergraduate students he sponsored, monetary donations to nonprofit organizations, prizes he donated for charitable auctions, which was usually the right to name a character in one of his upcoming columns, and his service as the auctioneer for the annual Possible Dreams auction in Martha’s Vineyard. Many humor conferences and organizations are represented in this series and include material regarding an exchange of American and Soviet humorists in 1988, for which Buchwald traveled to the Soviet Union. Letters from readers are included in the Subject File and record reactions to some of Buchwald’s columns. Correspondence and printed matter chronicle Buchwald’s ongoing relationships with the New York Herald Tribune, United States Marine Corps, and University of Southern California. Researchers should consult the Personal File for material more directly related to Buchwald’s early career with the New York Herald Tribune while in Paris, France, his service as a Marine, and his tenure as a student at the University of Southern California.
Material types include brochures, correspondence, newspaper clippings, programs, and printed matter.
The Digital File series contains the contents of a personal computer and word-processing disks created and used by Buchwald between 1987 and 2006. The series documents his professional activities during this period and focuses primarily on speech and column drafts, though to a lesser extent, correspondence and photographs are also represented. The file structure of the digital content has been maintained as received and Buchwald’s word-processing files were saved in no particular chronological or topical order, resulting in a mix of date ranges, subjects, and document types across digital ID numbers. In general, speeches and columns found on disks range in date from 1987 to 1996, while those found on Buchwald’s personal computer range in date from 2002 to 2006. An inventory of some of the disks was created, presumably by one of Buchwald's assistants, and a PDF copy is appended to the finding aid as Appendix B. Correspondence was saved among column and speech drafts and dates between 1987 and 1996. In an effort to ensure correspondence was not overlooked among the digital files, digital ID numbers containing letters are listed under “Correspondence” and under “Columns and speeches.” Correspondence found in the Digital File series includes several letters Buchwald wrote to his wife, Ann, during their separation and her cancer treatments. Letters from Buchwald to his children and friends are also found in this series. In other instances where digital materials were found with the collection’s paper content, the digital materials are listed and described alongside the paper records.
Material types include book manuscripts, correspondence, photographs, and speech and column drafts.
Oversize and unusually formatted material feature a commemorative cigar associated with Buchwald's radio program Buchwald On, a crank toy in the form of Buchwald at a book signing for his memoir, Leaving Home, the prosthetic leg Buchwald wore after his leg was amputated in 2006, and many promotional posters associated with Buchwald's columns and books. Other material includes storyboards, photographs, drawings, speech cards, and scrapbooks.
The papers of Julius W. Becton (1926-2023) span the years 1780-2008, with the bulk of the material dating from 1951 to 2008. The collection documents Becton's career as a United States Army officer who commanded infantry and armor in war and peace, the first African American general to command a corps, director of the Federal Emergency Management Administration during the Reagan administration, an educator and president of Prairie View A & M University in Texas, and superintendent of the District of Columbia Public Schools. The papers are primarily in English, with some German and Vietnamese. The papers are organized into twelve series: General Correspondence, Army Career, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Prairie View A & M University, District of Columbia Public Schools, Organizations, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Miscellany, National Security Classified Information, and Oversize. Scattered documents are in German and Vietnamese.
The General Correspondence series is arranged chronologically and mainly documents Becton’s interests, activities, and friendships outside of day-to-day professional commitments. The series is mainly a product of his post-retirements from the army and from his civilian jobs, much of it retrospective, looking back at people, incidents, and issues from his working life. It also documents periods in his army career when he was between commands, on short staff stints, and matriculated at military and civilian academic institutions. Correspondents in the series include Harry W. Brooks, Edmund L. Goldsborough, Harvey Gough, Chester Higgins (1917-2000), Benjamin L. Hooks, John Q. Taylor King, Charles C. Moskos, Robert L. Nabors, Colin L. Powell, and Manfred Rommel.
The General Correspondence, though extensive, does not account for the bulk of the correspondence in the papers. Most correspondence is part of series and files related to his army commands and leadership of military agencies while on active duty; to the civilian disaster relief agencies he directed after retiring from the army, the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency; to his presidency of Prairie View A&M University; and to his superintendency of the District of Columbia Public Schools.
The Army Career series documents Becton’s nearly forty-year career in the United States Army, from his enlistment in 1943 to his retirement as a lieutenant general (three stars) in 1983. The series is organized into files relating to his troop commands and leadership of Army agencies; an academic file relating to his stints in the armed forces graduate programs; and topical files on subjects such as race relations in the Army and the Officer Efficiency Report System (OERS). Large groupings in the Army Career series include files on the 9th Infantry Division (platoon leader and company commander in combat during the Korean War, 1950-1953); 101st Airborne Division (squadron commander of the attached 17th Cavalry Regiment), and assistant brigade commander in combat in Vietnam, 1967-1968; 2nd Armored Division (brigade commander, 1970-1972); United States Army Training Center at Fort Dix, N.J. (deputy commanding general, 1972-1975); 1st Cavalry Division (commanding general, 1975-1976); Army Operational Test and Evaluation Agency (commanding general 1976-1978); 7th Corps (commanding general, 1978-1981); and the Training and Doctrine Command (deputy commanding general, 1981-1983).
Correspondents in the Army Career series include Sidney B. Berry, Harry W. Brooks, Leo A. Brooks, Bruce C. Clarke, Roscoe Robinson, Harvey G. Dickerson, H. Minton Francis, Harvey Gough, James F. Hamlet, West A. Hamilton, Chester Higgins (1917-2000), Robert C. Larson, Sharon B. Lord, Glenn K. Otis, George S. Patton (1923-2004), Charles C. Rogers, Bernard W. Rogers, Manfred Rommel, Robert M. Shoemaker, Hervey S. Stockman, La Vern E. Weber, John A. Wickham, and Oliver W. Willard,
Two series document Becton’s service in the Ronald Reagan and George Bush administrations as the director of two federal disaster relief organizations, the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (1984-1985), part of of the Agency for International Development, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (1985-1989). Part of his job at FEMA was coordinating international civil defense policy by meeting regularly with counterparts from countries participating in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Some documents relating to this function are classified and withdrawn to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Classified series.
From 1957 to 1960, Becton was a professor of military science and tactics in the ROTC program at Prairie View A&M University in Texas. He used this opportunity to matriculate, graduating with a BS in mathematics in 1960. In 1989 he was inaugurated as president of Prairie View A&M University, the first graduate of the school to become its president. The Prairie View A&M series documents his presidency (1989-1994) of the historically black university, and his post-presidency. A large file in the series, prepared by lawyers for the Texas A&M System, relates to Knight v. State of Alabama federal case that alleged that state property tax systems discriminated against black students by underfunding public schools and historically black institutions of higher education.
In 1996 Becton commenced what he called his “toughest challenge,” running the District of Columbia Public Schools as superintendent and CEO. The District of Columbia Public Schools series documents Becton’s tenure as school chief under the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority, commonly known as the Financial Control Board, or simply the Control Board. The Control Board, a five-member panel created by an act of Congress, oversaw the District's finances during 1995-2001. It had the power to override decisions of the mayor and city council. The Control Board overrode the elected school board and installed as the effective board the Emergency Transition Board of Trustees, which, in 1996, fired the superintendent and hired Becton in his place. Becton held the position until he resigned in 1998. There is frequent correspondence with Bruce E. Maclaury, chairman of the Emergency Transition Board of Trustees. Other correspondents include Andrew Brimmer and Arlene Ackerman.
The Organizations series includes files on veterans' organizations of World War II era African American units, such as 555th Parachute Infantry Regiment and the 761st Tank Battalion; and files on the veterans and historical interest organizations of African American units that served in the American West during the aftermath of the American Civil War through the World Wars, such as the Ninth and Tenth Cavalry Association and Southwest Association of Buffalo Soldiers. While the file on the Ninth Infantry Regiment (Manchu) in which Becton served during the Korean War is part of the Army Career series, information on the 2nd Infantry Division, which included the Ninth, is documented in the Indianhead Association file of the Organizations series. A file on the Ninth Infantry Regiment's veterans organization, the Ninth Infantry (Manchu) Association, is also part of the Organizations series. Also in the Organizations series is a large file relating to The Rocks, an organization that mentors African American officer candidates and junior officers. Other professional service organizations documented in the series include the Association of the United States Army, George C. Marshall Foundation, Non-Commissioned Officers Association, and United States Armor Association. Most of these organizations are also well-documented in the General and other correspondence files.
Two major components of the Speeches and Writings series are files relating to Becton’s book, Becton: Autobiography of a Soldier and Public Servant (2008), and to his speeches. The book gestated nearly three decades resulting in several drafts. Some drafts, though unpublished, are fairly complete versions with an organization, chapter headings, anecdotes, and content that differs substantially from the published book. The speeches as a whole work the way the correspondence does, with most speeches focused on his army commands and civilian leadership positions and found within the Army Career series, and in series relating to OFDA, FEMA, Prairie View, and District of Columbia Public Schools. Speeches in Speeches and Writings are more generic and focused on his post-retirement years.
The Subject File series includes biographical material on Becton; files on his family, including correspondence and diaries; and files relating to Becton’s hometown, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, on the "Main Line" outside of Philadelphia, including files on Lower Merion High School from which he graduated. Also part of the series is material relating to African American history, particularly military history, with files on units of the pre-1950s segregated army and on the first African American general officers. The oldest in the papers, a 1780 document certifying three years of service in the Continental Army during the American Revolution of one Jonathan Cain, or Crain, is also part of the Subject File.
Correspondence with colleagues, friends, and members of the public, with attached material.
Correspondence, speeches, notes, notebooks, personnel files, unit records, academic files, scrapbooks, topical files, printed matter, government records, commissions, reports, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, speeches, handbooks, reports, notebooks, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, speeches, printed matter, government records, North Atlantic Treaty Organization records, reports, project files, topical files, travel files, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, speeches, legal case files, newspapers and newspaper clippings, notebooks and notes, organizational records, reports, topical files, printed matter, and miscellaneous material.
Correspondence, speeches, notebooks and notes, government records, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, schedules, and miscellaneous material.
Printed matter, trip itineraries, correspondence, reports, articles, and miscellaneous material.
Drafts, correspondence, research files, and background material relating to Becton's autobiography; speeches; books by others; and speech idea files.
Family papers, biographical material, topical files, regional histories, newspapers and newspaper clippings, and real estate records.
Awards, appointment calendars, cartoons and caricatures, obituaries, biographical sketches of others, photographs, slides, resumes, and miscellaneous material.
Documents containing security information removed from the collection.
Scrapbooks, calendars, posters, photographs, cartoons, and awards.
The papers of Albert Gallatin Marchand span the period 1801-1862, with the bulk of the material dating from 1839 to 1843. The collection documents Marchand’s tenure as a two-term Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives (1839-1843) and his life as a transitory resident of Washington, D.C., and consists almost entirely of letters to his wife, Susan S. (Kuhns) Marchand. Though he was not an influential member of the House, Marchand's correspondence provides insight into the daily workings of that body during the administrations of presidents Martin Van Buren and John Tyler. (No letters from William Henry Harrison’s month-long presidency are included.) He offers observations on the legislative process, comments on the distinctions between Democrats and Whigs, and relates his often witty and withering assessments of fellow representatives. His letters convey the details of his daily routine, such as living arrangements at Gadsby’s Hotel and other temporary residences and his frequent constitutionals around Capitol Hill, while also expressing his longing to return home to his wife and young children. Additional correspondence includes letters from Susan’s brother, Daniel S. Kuhns, a letter from Marchand to his younger brother, Henry Clay Marchand, and an 1862 condolence letter to Susan upon the death of William K. Marchand, Albert and Susan’s son. Of note is his June 8, 1840, speech supporting the creation of an independent United States treasury, the collection's sole item of an official nature illustrating his role as a representative.
The papers of Stephen D. Pyle consist chiefly of correspondence written to him by two members of the American Colony in Jerusalem, Jacob E. Spafford and G. Eric Matson. The American Colony was established in Jerusalem in 1881 as a Christian utopian society led by Anna and Horatio Spafford, Jacob E. Spafford’s adoptive parents.
Spafford's letters date from 1924 to 1927 and document daily life and social events in the American Colony, the travels of some American Colony members, and occasional philosophical musings on religion. A few letters contain photographs and other ephemera. Two pieces of Arabic writing, a handwritten "Arabic grammar" and an illuminated printed page from an unidentified text, were enclosed with the letters. Also included are three printed Christmas cards from the American Colony.
Matson's letter of September 18, 1924, discusses the travels of mutual acquaintances of his and Pyle's, as well as a brief description of his struggle to obtain a marriage license to Edith Yantiss Matson.
The papers of John C. Calhoun span the years 1818 to 1850 and chiefly consist of correspondence with John R. Mathewes and Littleton Waller Tazewell; a manuscript of Calhoun's last senate speech (1850 March 4) pertaining to the Compromise of 1850; a list of rules (1828) for the U.S. Commissioner of Public Buildings; and other papers.
The Koyl-Mathieson Collection spans the years 1963-1969 and consists of research material for American Architectural Drawings: a Catalog of Original and Measured Drawings of Buildings of the United States of America to December 31, 1917 (1969), compiled and edited by George S. Koyl and Moira B. Mathieson and prepared and published through the Philadelphia Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, and for Addendum to American Architectural Drawings (1977) by James M. Goode.
The States and Countries File contains architectural drawings, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, and surveys related to buildings and other structures, most of which date from the eighteenth century to the early twentieth century. The Correspondence series primarily documents the publishing of the architectural catalog, and includes correspondence with museums, architectural archives and associations, the Kress Foundation and other organizations, and suppliers. The Subject File includes architectural surveys, printed matter, manuals, and reports. The Architects series has biographical material and other appropriate information on various architects compiled for the catalog.
Architectural drawings, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, and surveys related to buildings and other structures.
Correspondence documenting the publishing of the architectural catalog.
Architectural surveys, printed matter, manuals, and reports.
Biographical material and other appropriate information on various architects compiled for the catalog.
The papers of Robert Orben (1927-2023) span the dates 1941-2019. The collection documents Orben's career as a comedy writer and humor consultant, and speechwriter for President Gerald R. Ford. The papers are arranged into five series: General Correspondence, Alphabetical File, Speeches and Writings, Miscellany, and Oversize.
This collection documents Orben's work as a comedy writer and promoter of humor. Orben initially focused on magic and magicians, but over time expanded his reach and wrote material for use by a wide range of performers and public speakers. A strength of this collection is the compilation of jokes and one-liners he wrote over the second half of the twentieth century, that he published under his own name, prepared for other performers, created for The Red Skelton Hour television program, and supplied for corporate events. His periodical, Orben's Current Comedy, a topical subscription service, contains jokes relating to the public figures, cultural trends, and current events from 1958 to 1989. A smaller amount of similar material from the 1990s that he sent to columnists and others is dispersed throughout collection. Orben's work as a promoter of and advisor on the use of humor in public speaking and his life-long connection to magicians and the magic profession are also documented. The collection complements a larger collection of Robert Orben Papers at the Gerald R. Ford Library in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Material pertaining to Orben's time as a speechwriter in the Ford White House includes memorabilia, photographs, an oral history transcript, speeches, and an unpublished memoir.
The collection's series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The General Correspondence series comprises a chronological grouping of letters sent and received by Orben between the years 1963 and 2019.
The Alphabetical File series touches on all aspects of his career and documents Orben’s dealings with colleagues, publishers, publications, organizations, columnists, clients, and friends.
The Speeches and Writings series contains approximately sixty years of jokes, one-liners, writings, and remarks from Orben's career as a comedy writer and humor consultant for performers, television programs, public figures, and corporate clients.
A small Miscellany series contains additional material documenting Orben's life and career including press clippings and photographs depicting his work with President Gerald R. Ford.
The remaining series contains Oversize material.
The General Correspondence series comprises a chronological grouping of letters sent and received by Orben between the years 1963 and 2019. The letters date from the period that Orben moved to California to work as a writer for the television program, The Red Skelton Hour, and continue into his retirement years. While some of the correspondence relates to his work, much of it is of a personal nature. Additional correspondence, grouped alphabetically by name of correspondent or topic, is located in the Alphabetical File series.
Material types include letters sent and received with related attachments. One attachment is in digital format as a PowerPoint presentation.
The Alphabetical File series touches on all aspects of his career and documents Orben’s dealings with colleagues, publishers, publications, organizations, columnists, clients, and friends. Files relating to Orben’s business partner in the 1960s, Stanley Kupferman, contain their extensive correspondence from when Orben was in California containing details about their business, Orben Publications, and their efforts to promote and sell Orben’s books and other comedy products. Orben’s letters to Kupferman also describe his experience as a writer for The Red Skelton Hour and touch on his work for comedian Dick Gregory. A large portion of this material dates from the years after Orben’s work for President Gerald R. Ford. Items relating to Gerald R. Ford include letters from Ford documenting Orben’s continued assistance with speeches in the years following his presidency and memorabilia from Orben’s time in the Ford White House.
Material types include correspondence, business papers, printed matter, and one-liners and other humorous material Orben sent to individuals and publications.
The Speeches and Writings series contains approximately sixty years of jokes, one-liners, writings, and remarks from Orben's career as a comedy writer and humor consultant for performers, television programs, public figures, and corporate clients. His earliest material is included in a grouping of small self-published books, such as The Encyclopedia of Patter (1946), Magicdotes (1948), and The Working Comedian’s Gag File (1956), that Orben wrote for magicians, emcees, comedians, and other performers. The largest portion of this material relates to his topical humor service, Orben’s Current Comedy, that he edited from 1958 to 1989 with a small break between 1968 and 1971. This periodical, issued monthly and then bi-monthly, contains jokes and one-liners relating to current events and prominent figures in politics and entertainment. Orben later compiled some of this material into a series of books. Orben’s writing for television is documented in an index card file arranged by topic, labeled “Skelton Stockpile,” containing jokes he wrote for The Red Skelton Hour as well material he wrote for The Jack Paar Program in 1962. Another set of index cards contains material Orben wrote for comedian Dick Gregory’s book, From the Back of the Bus (1962). Additional material relating to this project can be found in the Alphabetical File series. Another group of writings contains material he wrote for International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) corporate events. Orben’s articles and essays about the writing, effective delivery, and use of humor in speeches, as well as his speeches and speech material about humor in the presidency are also included in this series. An unpublished memoir offers Orben’s account of events in his life until the end of his time in the Gerald R. Ford administration. Additional jokes that he sent to individuals and publications, particularly topical material written in the 1990s, are located in the Alphabetical File series under the name of the person or publication.
Material types include jokes, articles, books, book drafts, periodicals, a memoir, notes, interview transcripts, speeches, and scripts.
A small Miscellany series contains additional material documenting Orben's life and career including press clippings about or mentioning him and photographs depicting his work with President Gerald R. Ford. A scrapbook contains Orben's earliest published writings, most of which relate to magic.
Material types include card files, calendars, photographs, press clippings, lists, passports, a scrapbook, and video files from an award ceremony.
Card files of jokes, card files of addresses, photographs, a proclamation, and a scrapbook.
The papers of John A. Casazza (1924-2019) span the years 1938-2018, with the bulk of the material dating from 1970 to 2012. The collection documents Casazza’s career in the electric power industry as an engineer, educator, and author. The papers are in English. The collection is organized into five series: Speeches and Writings File, Subject File, Course Materials, Miscellany, and Digital File.
The collection documents Casazza’s long career as an electrical engineer and business executive at Public Service Electric and Gas Company. His papers also include material related to his consulting firm, Casazza, Schultz & Associates, his teaching efforts with the American Education Institute, his advocacy work with Power Engineers Supporting Truth, and the writing of his books and other publications. Much of Casazza's work was published under the name Jack Casazza. As Casazza believed engineers and their employers have a moral responsibility to provide a service to society instead of prioritizing commercial interests, the papers frequently explore ethical issues within the electric power industry. While he advocated for engineers to have a greater role in setting electric power policy, Casazza also worked to improve the technical competence of existing government officials through educational programs.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The Speeches and Writings File series includes book drafts, articles, reports, unpublished memoirs, and talks written by Casazza.
The Subject File series contains files on a variety of topics and issues related to the electric power industry.
The Course Materials series documents educational programs offered by Casazza, Schultz & Associates and the American Education Institute.
The Miscellany series includes correspondence, photographs, and other miscellaneous material pertaining to Casazza’s life and career.
The Digital File series contains the contents of floppy disks and CDs created and used by Casazza and overlaps with material from the other series.
The Speeches and Writings File series includes book drafts, articles, reports, unpublished memoirs, and talks written by Casazza. The series contains drafts of several books by Casazza, including the first edition of Understanding Electric Power Systems. Research materials, correspondence, reviews, and copies of figures and illustrations are also present for some of his books. The chronological file in this series contains copies of Casazza’s professional articles, conference talks, reports, lectures, and expert testimonies given before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and various congressional committees. Casazza collected these materials in a set of twelve binders, assigned each binder a number (i.e. “Book I”), and created separate indexes for the contents of each binder. The container list maintains his original organization of these materials. A complete index of all twelve “Books” is included at the end of the chronological file. Additional articles and reports not part of the chronological file are listed individually in the container list. Some articles explore Casazza’s personal views on topics like race relations and religion. The series also contains copies of Casazza’s unpublished memoirs and a collection of writings he identified as his most important works. This series also includes a selection of writings by others that feature Casazza's annotations. For the most heavily annotated books, the entire book was retained. In other cases, only the relevant pages were photocopied. Also present is a draft of former Federal Power Commission chairman Joseph C. Swidler’s autobiography. After Swidler's death, an edited version of this autobiography was published as Power and the Public Interest: The Memoirs of Joseph C. Swidler.
Material types include book drafts, articles, reports, correspondence, notes, and printed matter.
The Subject File series contains files on a variety of topics and issues related to the electric power industry. Topics include transmission capacity, federal energy legislation, major electric power failures, and the environmental impact of utility companies. The files on national power surveys document the Federal Power Commission's 1964 survey and Casazza’s advocacy for an updated survey during the early 2000s. Also of interest are the files on the Northeast blackout of 2003. Casazza formed Power Engineers Supporting Truth (PEST) with Frank Delea, George C. Loehr, and Raymond Maliszewski in response to this event. PEST criticized the federal government’s investigation of the blackout, expressed concern about the impact of government deregulation on the North American electric power system, and looked to prevent future power failures from occurring. A small portion of the Subject File documents Casazza’s interest in connections between science and religion.
Material types include reports, articles, correspondence, printed matter, notes, and clippings.
The Course Materials series documents educational programs offered by Casazza, Schultz & Associates and the American Education Institute. Some programs were aimed at experienced engineers as continuing education opportunities. Others were intended for non-engineers involved in setting electric power policy, such as officials from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Department of Defense. Course topics include transmission system planning and design, pricing of transmission services, causes and effects of electric power failures, electric system security, and the history of the electric power industry.
Material types include lecture notes, course schedules, correspondence, course evaluations, and transparencies.
The Miscellany series includes correspondence, photographs, and other miscellaneous material pertaining to Casazza’s life and career. Much of the correspondence is related to Casazza’s interest in improving the technical competence of government officials and his concerns about the future of the engineering profession. Congratulatory letters on various professional accomplishments and a small amount of personal correspondence are also included. The photographs and clippings primarily document Casazza’s projects in the electric power industry. Also present are several portraits of Casazza.
Material types include correspondence, photographs, clippings, notes, a family history of the Casazza and Russo families, an oral history interview, copies of a patent, and résumés and other biographical material.
The Digital File series contains the contents of floppy disks and CDs created and used by Casazza and overlaps with material from the other series. The series documents his professional activities with Power Engineers Supporting Truth, the American Education Institute, and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Also included are copies of various book drafts, speeches and slide presentations, articles, and reports written by Casazza. Major topics include electric power failures (especially the Northeast blackout of 2003), electric power deregulation, and labor and personnel issues affecting the electrical engineering profession.
Material types include correspondence, meeting minutes, PowerPoint presentations, book drafts, articles, and reports.
The papers of Isabella Karle and Jerome Karle span the years 1912-2012, with the bulk of the material dating from 1948 to 2008. The collection documents the Karles’ sixty-five year careers as physical chemists in the field of x-ray crystallography, most of which was spent at the Laboratory for the Structure of Matter at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) in Washington, DC. The papers are primarily in English, with Polish and some German, Russian, Spanish, and Chinese. The papers are organized into four series: Isabella Karle Papers, Jerome Karle Papers, Collaborations, and Oversize.
The collection focuses almost entirely on the Karles’ professional careers with little documentation of their personal lives. With the exception of the files in the Collaborations series, Isabella and Jerome maintained separate files which are arranged into distinct series, the Isabella Karle Papers and the Jerome Karle Papers. Both of their papers reflect the development and use of methods for crystal structure analysis with Jerome’s work skewing more toward theoretical investigations and Isabella’s work involving the development and execution of specific processes to analyze crystal structures, most of which were based on Jerome’s theories and calculations. Furthermore, Isabella’s papers focus mostly on her work within the laboratory, while Jerome’s reflect his wider involvement in the field as an administrator and participant in a variety of professional organizations and institutions. Though their working relationship is rarely evidenced in the files, it is explored through oral history interviews and other biographical materials throughout the collection. There is no documentation in the collection of their involvement with the Manhattan Project or other aspects of their career outside the NRL.
The Isabella Karle Papers series documents Karle’s scientific contributions to the field of x-ray crystallography and chiefly includes research and writing files produced at NRL, mostly between 1960 and 2008.
The Jerome Karle Papers document Karle’s contributions to the field of crystallography, his administrative career at NRL, and involvement in numerous scientific organizations, mostly between 1948 and 2008.
The Collaborations series contains materials related to projects, writings, speeches, and presentations on which Isabella and Jerome participated together, the bulk of which span from 1950 to 2009.
The remaining series contains Oversize files.
The Isabella Karle Papers series documents Karle’s scientific contributions to the field of x-ray crystallography and chiefly includes research and writing files produced at NRL, mostly between 1960 and 2008. Her papers include articles, correspondence, awards, performance appraisals, biographical sketches, oral history transcripts, professional membership files, and presentations given at scientific and academic conferences. The bulk of Isabella Karle’s series is represented by her Research File, which contains a significant volume of raw crystallographic data, notes, figures and illustrations of molecular structures, and correspondence with scientific collaborators at a variety of national and international institutions. Aside from a small number of biographical sketches and oral history transcripts, there are no files that document Karle’s childhood, personal and family life, education, or her work on the Manhattan Project.
The Personal File subseries contains materials that provide a broad overview of Isabella Karle’s career, mostly between 1970 and 2008. Files include awards and nominations, résumés, oral history transcripts, biographical sketches, and photographs. Of particular interest are Karle’s performance reviews and project reports from NRL that provide succinct overviews of her research, publications, speaking engagements, and other professional activities. Other materials document her involvement in various scientific societies including the National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and the American Crystallographic Association. Additional biographical materials related to Karle can be found in the Collaborations series and include awards, clippings, and oral history interviews.
Material types include résumés, awards, certificates, oral history transcripts, biographical sketches, business cards, photographs, correspondence, memoranda, reports, applications, clippings, notes, calendars, and schedules. Some visual materials are in digital formats.
The Correspondence subseries comprises professional correspondence received by Isabella Karle, mostly spanning from 1965 to 2000. The bulk of the subseries contains incoming letters from colleagues, publishers, and other scientists in her field. Topics documented include her research interests, status of projects and publications, involvement in professional organizations, arrangements for speaking engagements, biographical sketches, and referee comments by and for Karle. The subseries is not comprehensive, and most correspondence related to specific research, writings, speeches, and subjects can be found within files maintained according to topic throughout the series. Most letters addressed to both Isabella and Jerome can be found in the Collaborations series.
Material types include letters, email printouts, memoranda, invitations, and attachments including writings, programs, and itineraries.
The Speeches and Writings subseries comprises files related to articles, reports, speeches, lectures, and book chapters written by Isabella Karle, mostly from 1960 to 2003. The files contain drafts, working files, figures, illustrations, research data, notes, abstracts, and correspondence. Frequent collaborators represented in the subseries include Darshan Ranganathan, Subramania Ranganathan, Padmanabhan Balaram, and Bernhard Witkop. The bulk of the speeches and writings correspond to the molecular structure analyses contained in Karle’s Research File. Published structures of these complex organic and inorganic substances include steroids, alkaloids, toxins, ionophores, and, especially, peptides, and relate to such varied topics as the transport of ions, protection against radiation damage, energetic and propellant materials, antimalarials, antibiotics, non-addicting analgesics, shock, neurotoxins, explosives, and nitrogen compounds. Also present in the subseries are Isabella’s lecture files from a variety of x-ray crystallography study institutes, many of which include lectures she presented with Jerome Karle. For additional materials from these study institutes, as well as writings and speeches written in collaboration with Jerome, see the Collaborations series. Additional writings, speeches, and related materials are interspersed throughout the Research File and Subject File.
Material types include articles, notes, research, data, figures, illustrations, correspondence, conference programs, abstracts, speeches, travel files, photographs, and bibliographies. Some textual and visual materials are in digital formats.
The Subject File subseries comprises files from a variety of Karle’s professional efforts, and include name files, travel files, grant files, and slides. Name files contain correspondence, draft publications, notes, clippings, photographs, and crystallographic data related to specific projects undertaken by Karle and the identified individual. Travel files largely consist of Defense Department memoranda that detail Karle’s attendance at conferences, meetings, award ceremonies, and lecture engagements. Grant files include applications, progress reports, and correspondence related to the National Institutes of Health-funded “X-Ray Diffraction Studies of Oligopeptides” project from 1981 to 2008. The subseries also contains referee comments and recommendations by Karle. Of particular interest are the recommendations Karle wrote for her daughters Louise Karle Hanson and Jean Karle Dean, both of whom pursued careers in the field of chemistry. The associated correspondence in these files contains some of the only references in the collection to Jerome and Isabella Karle’s family life. Slides, arranged by subject, likely relate to speeches, lectures, and presentations though are not identified as such.
Material types include correspondence, publications, notes, clippings, slides, photographs, research data, memoranda, applications, reports, letters of recommendation, and travel files. Some textual materials are in digital formats
The Research File subseries represents the bulk of the materials found in the Isabella Karle Papers and chiefly comprises Karle’s extensive x-ray crystallography research data, mostly from 1960 to 2006. Given the technical nature of her research the subseries is largely arranged as received with the original file names retained in order to preserve context. An alternate alphabetical arrangement of the subseries can be found at https://hdl.loc.gov/loc.mss/eadmss.ms021006.apx. Molecular structures represented include Leu-enkephalin, valinomycin, lysozyme, antamanide, batrachotoxinin A, and synthetic analogs of antamanide, cycloamanide, hexapeptides, and depsipeptides. The Research File also includes publications, draft writings, correspondence, lecture notes, slides, and other materials related to the collected raw data. Project and funding reports related to Isabella’s research can be found in Jerome Karle’s NRL files within the Organizations and Institutions subseries.
Material types include crystallographic data printouts, photographs, negatives, slides, diffractograms, notes, correspondence, reports, memoranda, lectures, figures, illustrations, writings, and clippings. Some articles, crystallographic data, figures, and illustrations are in digital formats.
The Jerome Karle Papers document Karle’s contributions to the field of crystallography, his administrative career at NRL, and involvement in numerous scientific organizations, mostly between 1948 and 2008. The series features writings, speeches, correspondence, and subject files focusing on his research in structural chemistry, highlighting his work in crystal structure determination and the development of various diffraction techniques. It also comprises files pertaining to his roles in developing national and international science policy within the National Academy of Sciences, International Union of Crystallography, and American Academy of Crystallography.
The Personal File subseries contains materials that are primarily biographical and provide an overview of Jerome Karle’s life and career. Files include biographical sketches, awards, résumés, photographs, and clippings. The subseries documents Karle’s winning of the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1985 (shared with Herbert A. Hauptman), including his subsequent involvement at various events as a Nobel laureate. Lectures presented at meetings of Nobel laureates in Lindau, Germany, are filed within the Speeches and Writings subseries. Additional biographical materials related to Karle can be found in the Collaborations series and include awards, clippings, and oral history interviews.
Material types include résumés, awards, certificates, clippings, business cards, calendars, photographs, bibliographies, and correspondence.
The Correspondence subseries comprises professional correspondence received by Karle, the bulk of which spans from 1965 to 2000. Although some outgoing letters are included, the subseries largely consists of letters sent to Karle by colleagues, scientists, and admirers of his work, especially after he won the Nobel Prize. Topics include solicitation for comments on articles, vacancy announcements, arrangements for speaking engagements and conference appearances, reprint requests, and letters from individuals seeking his autograph or advice. Additional correspondence related to the Nobel Prize can be found in the Personal File. The bulk of the correspondence in this subseries is of a general nature. Letters and memoranda related to Karle’s career at NRL and within professional organizations are filed in relevant folders in the Organizations and Institutions subseries, and correspondence tied to specific projects or topics can be found within associated materials in the Subject File. Most letters addressed to both Isabella and Jerome can be found in the Collaborations series.
Material types include letters, email printouts, memoranda, invitations, and greeting cards.
The Speeches and Writings subseries comprises files related to articles, lectures, abstracts, reports, and a monograph written by Karle focusing on a range of topics relevant to his crystallography research. The bulk of the materials span from 1950 to 2000. In addition to published and unpublished writings, the files contain drafts, working files, correspondence, research, and other background material. Topics explored focus mostly on x-ray diffraction, gas electron diffraction, electron diffraction, anomalous dispersion, and quantum mechanics. Some writings focus on the analysis of crystal and molecular structure of specific compounds. Frequent collaborators represented in the subseries include Herbert A. Hauptman, Lou Massa, Lulu Huang, Richard Gilardi, John Konnert, Wayne Hendrickson, and Judith Flippen-Anderson. Speech files mostly include lectures presented at conferences, symposia, and workshops. Lectures related to classes taught by Karle at the University of Maryland can be found in the Organizations and Institutions subseries. Writings and speeches prepared in collaboration with Isabella Karle are within the Collaborations series.
Material types include articles, abstracts, figures, illustrations, slides, correspondence, reports, presentations, testimonies, and speeches. Some textual and visual materials are in digital formats.
The Organizations and Institutions subseries documents Karle’s professional memberships, appointments, involvement in numerous crystallography organizations, and his career as an administrator at NRL, mostly from his appointment as chief scientist within the Laboratory for the Structure of Matter in 1968 through his retirement in 2009. The NRL materials include program reviews, progress reports, proposals, and performance evaluations. The subseries focuses mostly on Karle’s role as administrator at NRL, with research conducted under the auspices of the laboratory filed elsewhere throughout the series where appropriate. Karle held various leadership positions in many national and international crystallography organizations, most notably the International Union of Crystallographers, the American Crystallographic Association, and the United States of America Committee for Crystallography. The bulk of the files in this subseries details his roles within these organizations in the 1970s and 1980s. Karle was also active in general science organizations, most notably the National Academy of Sciences, the files of which focus mostly on his involvement on the Committee on Human Rights, 1991-1997, and as chair of the chemistry section, 1988-1991. Other notable organizations where he was involved on a wider level in affecting national science policy include the International Council of Scientific Unions, the National Research Council, and the National Science Foundation. The subseries also details his involvement on boards and committees at his various alma maters including City College of New York, the University of Michigan, and Abraham Lincoln High School in New York City. There are no files from his time as a student at these institutions. Files related to his involvement with the NATO Advanced Study Institute can be found in the Collaborations series.
Material types include meeting minutes, agendas, notes, correspondence, proposals, conference programs, performance evaluations, itineraries, personnel actions, reports, newsletters, financial documents, ballots, press releases, and presentations. Some textual materials are in digital formats.
The Subject File primarily documents Karle’s research activities and interests throughout his career, with an emphasis on his collaborative working relationships at the NRL. The largest group of files in the series are related to Steve Brenner, research chemist at NRL from 1962 to 2007, who collaborated with Karle on computer operations and calculations. The files contain crystallographic data printouts along with notes by Karle. Received in containers labeled “Steve Brenner apps,” the files were arranged chronologically in the order they were received. The folder dates were maintained in order to provide context, especially given their specificity. Researchers should be aware that the actual dates of materials within each folder may vary. A significant research file mostly from the 1950s and early 1960s was also maintained as received. These materials comprise notes, writings, equations, data, and likely relate to Karle’s collaboration with Herbert A. Hauptman on the topic of phase determination. Other significant collaborations in the subseries include Karle’s work with Lulu Huang and Lou Massa on the subject of quantum crystallography in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Specific topics throughout the subseries include anomalous dispersion, electron diffraction, various computational chemistry programs, and projects associated with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The subseries also includes Karle’s recommendation letters and referee comments.
Material types include reports, slides, clippings, notes, correspondence, writings, schedules, laboratory notebooks, articles, pamphlets, and photographs. Some textual materials are in digital formats.
The Collaborations series contains materials related to projects, writings, speeches, and presentations on which Isabella and Jerome participated together, the bulk of which span from 1950 to 2009. The series contains many files related to their involvement as instructors with the International School of Crystallography and NATO Advanced Study Institute from the 1960s through the 1980s. Biographical materials that provide insight into their working relationship include oral history interview transcripts, clippings, and interviews. Other notable topics and material types include C₂Cl₆ research, travel engagements, retirement information, correspondence, and awards.
Material types include awards, transcripts, clippings, photographs, correspondence, articles, presentations, speeches, lectures, notes, and schedules.
Material types include crystallographic data printouts, figures, illustrations, posters, note cards, glass slides, and blueprints.
The papers of Ara Mesrobian (1924-2019) span the years 1876-2011, with the bulk of the material dating from 1941 to 1994. The collection documents Mesrobian’s deep interest in rail travel and provides insight into mid-twentieth century rail travel, the operations of railway historical societies, and railfan subculture in the United States.
The collection is primarily comprised of Mesrobian’s correspondence files from 1950 to 2011 and documents travel logistics, railway historical society events and activities, descriptions of trains, railways, and other transportation, and personal and business matters. The correspondence is filed in reverse chronological order within the folders. There is no correspondence from 1962. Mesrobian’s collections of railroad dining car menus, railroad, trolley, and streetcar tickets and ticket books, and other related ephemera also make up a significant portion of the collection. These materials are primarily from the United States and Canada, with a limited amount from Mesrobian’s European and Asian travels. There is also a significant amount of material related to railway historical society meetings and fan trips, including memorabilia associated with the last streetcar to travel over the original electric streetcar system in Washington, D.C. in 1962.
The papers of Arthur J. Finkelstein span the years 1960-2019, with the bulk of the material dating from 1970 to 1989. The collection documents Finkelstein's work as a pollster and Republican political consultant. The papers are arranged into five series: Consultant File, Alphabetical File, Travel and Itineraries File, Personal File and Oversize.
After founding his political consulting company AJF & Associates, Finkelstein played a major part in the wave of Republican victories and the rise of the New Right during the 1970s and 1980s. The collection focuses almost entirely on his professional career and highlights the evolution of campaigns, fundraising, and messaging in this era. The Consultant File in particular demonstrates these changes as it showcases Finkelstein’s hands-on role as a campaign manager or consultant for a number of races. However, as Finkelstein’s involvement varied from race to race, not every campaign has extensive documentation.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The Consultant File documents the mostly political work of Arthur J. Finkelstein, containing memoranda, polls, and other material related to various campaigns or organizations.
The Alphabetical File contains a mix of Finkelstein's working files, correspondence, and a variety of topics primarily concerned with Finkelstein's professional life.
The Travel and Itineraries File contains Finkelstein's scheduling books, detailing trips and meetings.
The Personal File contains a small collection of various material concerning Finkelstein's college years and family.
Oversize contains Rolodex cards, a scrapbook page, and a campaign poster.
The Consultant File documents the mostly political work of Arthur J. Finkelstein, containing memorandum, polls, and other material related to various campaigns or organizations. Specifically, the series contains material primarily from AJF & Associates, the polling and consulting company founded by Finkelstein. The firm specialized in political consulting for Republican candidates, and Finkelstein’s polling, coupled with direct mail for campaign fundraising and the use of independent expenditures, helped lead to a wave of Republican victories in the 1980s. The work for these campaigns could range from a simple poll to complete campaign management, where Finkelstein consulted on the crafting of oft-negative television and radio advertisements, direct mail letters, and other general advisement. Consequently, the amount of material in this series can vary from client to client. Some of the most noteworthy clients represented in this series are: James Lane Buckley, Alphonse D’Amato, Jesse Helms, Judy Koehler, Ronald S. Lauder, Don Nickles, Connie Mack III, and Denny Smith. Alongside individual candidates, Finkelstein played important roles in political action committees, such as the National Conservative Political Action Committee and the National Congressional Club. Later in his career, he helped consult for campaigns overseas, the most notable featured in this series being the National Citizen’s Coalition in Canada and the Likud party in Israel, where he managed the campaigns for Prime Ministers Benjamin Netanyahu and Ariel Sharon. Also represented in this series is the influence Finkelstein exercised in shaping state politics in New York, specifically in Long Island.
Material types include correspondence, memoranda, polls, notes, and news clippings.
The Alphabetical File contains a mix of Finkelstein's working files, correspondence, and a variety of topics primarily concerned with his professional life. The series is an expansion of a file arrangement managed by Finkelstein, though it is unclear whether these files were kept for AJF & Associates or personal use. Some noteworthy contents of this series feature material related to his board membership to the American Conservative Union and the libertarian consumer advocacy group Consumer Alert, AJF & Associates proposals, and the response by Finkelstein and friends to an article published by Boston Magazine that publicly outed him as gay. Notable correspondents and gathered subject material in this series includes John Terry Dolan, Joan Ferdinand, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Gerald "Gerry" Nicholls, and Roger Stone. Also included are speeches, interviews, and articles written by Finkelstein.
Material types include correspondence, news clippings, articles, and message books.
The Travel and Itineraries File contains Finkelstein's scheduling books, detailing trips and meetings.
Material types include schedule books and itineraries.
The Personal File contains a small collection of material concerning Finkelstein's college years and family. The most notable portion of this series includes writings, notes, and clippings from Finkelstein's time as an undergraduate at Queen's College, New York. The writings are of particular interest, containing poems and letters written by him and a classmate which reveal a brief glimpse as to how Finkelstein viewed himself at that time. Also included are papers related to his family.
Material types include notes, letters, correspondence, articles, and news clippings.
Material includes Rolodex cards, a scrapbook page, and a campaign poster.
The Presidential and Inaugural Collection spans the years 1835-2021, with the bulk of the material dating from 1944 to 2021. The collection primarily documents presidential inaugurations and the events that have historically surrounded them, including balls and dinners, but the collection is not inclusive of every presidential inauguration. The collection includes commemorative presidential inauguration buttons, cutouts of candidates' faces, COVID-19 face masks from the 2021 inauguration, a Metrorail pass, programs, and tickets, as well as invitations to balls, lunches, and other official events staged by the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies. The Washington Assemblies file includes invitations to balls celebrating George Washington's birthday.
The Kathleen D. Harney files pertain to her time serving as chief of the White House Press Releases Office, during four presidential administrations between 1944 and 1967. Harney worked in the White House library where she was in charge of press release files, and organized and maintained presidential statements. Her files contain Christmas cards, commemorative programs, correspondence, invitations, photographs, and other ephemera.
The papers of Thomas Lowe Hughes (1925-) span the dates 1918-2018, with the bulk of the material dating from 1961 to 1991. The collection documents Hughes's career in United States politics and foreign policy, especially as an aide to United States politicians, Chester Bowles and Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, as director of the Department of State's Bureau of Intelligence and Research, and, later, as the president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The collection is organized into eight series: United States Congress, Department of State, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, General Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Boards and Associations, Personal File, and National Security Classified Information.
The collection documents Hughes's interest and work in federal politics and foreign policy, much of which was informed by his early involvement with and leadership in the Student Federalists movement as a student at Carleton College and his travels throughout Europe as a Rhodes scholar in the immediate postwar period. His papers comprehensively cover the trajectory of his career in American foreign policy, beginning in the United States Congress as an administrative assistant to Chester Bowles and as legislative counsel to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, then moving into various leadership roles in the Department of State and, finally, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Hughes's professional contacts, associations, and affiliations, many of which Hughes worked to foster and maintain for the duration of his career and beyond, feature prominently through correspondence and meeting notes, filed across several series and found throughout the collection.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The United States Congress series contains materials documenting Hughes's early career working as legislative counsel to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (1955-1958) and his work as an administrative assistant to Congressman Chester Bowles (1959-1960), as well as his continued professional and personal associations with both throughout his career.
The Department of State series contains material documenting Hughes's positions with the Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR) and the United States Embassy, London.
The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace series spans the years 1948-2008, with the bulk of the material reflecting Hughes’s tenure as the organization’s president between 1971 and 1991. This series primarily contains records of major projects, events, and functions the endowment undertook under Hughes's tutelage.
The General Correspondence series was maintained as received and is arranged into three groupings: Alphabetical file, Chronological file, and Special signatures. The series primarily documents Hughes’s professional career in the Department of State and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, with the majority reflecting Hughes’s years at the Carnegie Endowment.
The Speeches and Writings series contains transcripts of speeches Hughes gave at a variety of professional and personal engagements, articles, and an extensive collection of notes pertaining to speech and article ideas, meetings, and other professional matters.
The Boards and Associations series documents Hughes’s involvement with various international affairs think tanks and nongovernmental organizations.
The Personal File contains material related to Hughes’s education, military service, and endeavors outside of his later professional career.
The remaining series contains National Security Classified Information associated with Hughes's tenure with the Department of State and United States Congress as an aide to Hubert Humphrey and Chester Bowles.
The United States Congress series contains materials documenting Hughes's early career working as legislative counsel to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey (1955-1958) and his work as an administrative assistant to Congressman Chester Bowles (1959-1960), as well as his continued professional and personal associations with both throughout his career. The series also contains a limited amount of material documenting Hughes’s association with Vice President Walter F. Mondale. The Chester Bowles material documents Hughes’s work for Bowles's congressional office and campaigns, including correspondence from constituents, drafts of books and articles Hughes edited for Bowles, files documenting bills Bowles worked on, as well as his platforms and policies. Bowles’s participation in John F. Kennedy’s 1960 presidential campaign and subsequent appointment to Kennedy’s administration as undersecretary of state is well represented through copies of letters to Kennedy. Replies from Kennedy are present to a lesser degree. Also featured is material relating to Bowles's two appointments as United States ambassador to India, including drafts of his book, Ambassador's Report, and correspondence to Hughes from his second tenure as ambassador. The Hubert H. Humphrey material documents Hughes’s work with Humphrey as well as his continued association until Humphrey’s death in 1978 and Hughes’s involvement with Humphrey’s legacy after his death. Materials cover Humphrey’s policies in the Senate, his electoral campaigns, the inner workings of his Senate office, and, to a limited degree, his vice presidency. The Walter F. Mondale material is limited and consists of correspondence between Mondale and Hughes and ephemera related to Mondale.
Material types include correspondence, memoranda, notes, ephemera, writings, drafts, and clippings.
The Department of State series contains material documenting Hughes's positions with the Bureau of Intelligence and Research (INR) and the United States Embassy, London. The material ranging from 1961 to 1969 covers Hughes’s time as the deputy director, then director of INR and includes meeting notes, correspondence, briefings, and reports relating to the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Vietnam War, and other issues relating to the Cold War. Travel files document a 1963 trip Hughes took to Germany and England in conjunction with John F. Kennedy’s European tour and a 1964 trip to India and Pakistan resulting in a comprehensive debriefing on the Indian subcontinent. Files also include material on departmental politics and business, Senate hearings, and special study groups. The chronological files of George C. Denney within the series document Denney’s time as deputy director of INR (1963-1974), and cover many of the same topics. Material also includes notes and articles written and collected by Hughes after his tenure at INR that primarily reflect on INR’s role in world events. The London Embassy files document Hughes’s professional activities as minister and deputy chief of mission at the United States Embassy in London, England, from 1969 to1970. During this time, Hughes served as the second in command to Ambassador Walter H. Annenberg. These materials include correspondence, speeches, schedules and guest lists for embassy events, notes, printed matter, and clippings.
Material types include correspondence, speeches, memoranda, notes, reports, briefings, itineraries, and clippings.
The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace series spans the years 1948-2008, with the bulk of the material reflecting Hughes’s tenure as the organization’s president between 1971-1991. This series primarily contains records of major projects, events, and functions the endowment undertook under Hughes's tutelage. Major topics include the Arms Control Association, Future of Arms Control panel, Face-to-Face communication program events, the Mid-Atlantic Club, Board of Trustees meetings, and publication of Foreign Policy magazine. The bulk of the series is formed by a subject file containing Hughes’s files regarding staff, projects, contractors, and organizations with which the endowment regularly collaborated. Many files contain Hughes’s notes and correspondence with individuals regarding project ideas, statuses, and outcomes. Conferences and meetings on the topics of foreign policy, nuclear arms, and United States-Soviet relations, either sponsored by the endowment or attended by Hughes, also feature prominently in the subject file and throughout the series. Also of particular note are the files documenting the Board of Trustees meetings. These files include planning materials for the endowment’s biannual board meetings, meeting minutes, reports of the president, and documents reflecting an extensive program review in 1987. Also included are letters sent to the board regarding Alger Hiss’s position as president of the organization in the wake of his accusation of espionage in 1948.
Material types include correspondence, notes, reports, and printed matter.
The General Correspondence series was maintained as received and is arranged into three groupings: Alphabetical file, Chronological file, and Special signatures. The series primarily documents Hughes’s professional career in the Department of State and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, with the majority reflecting Hughes’s years at the Carnegie Endowment and his contacts with diplomats and dignitaries. Topics across the series largely relate to business matters and include interoffice memos and routine outgoing correspondence. Files regarding named correspondents in the Alphabetical and Special signatures groupings often include contextual and analytical notes supplied by Hughes and, at times, associated clippings, printed matter, and other ephemera. Researchers should note that extensive personal correspondence chronicling Hughes’s undergraduate and graduate education and extracurricular activities is located in the Personal File.
The Speeches and Writing series contains transcripts of speeches Hughes gave at a variety of professional and personal engagements, articles, and an extensive collection of notes pertaining to speech and article ideas, meetings, and other professional matters. The speeches in this series span the years 1954-2007 and represent engagements in which Hughes participated while working for the Department of State's Bureau of Intelligence and Research and for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace as president and president emeritus. The majority of the speeches are arranged chronologically, with some arranged topically for specific functions where Hughes spoke regularly, namely Mid-Atlantic Club meetings, Carnegie Endowment Board of Trustees meetings, and gatherings of the Oxford-Cambridge Association. The writings in this series are largely article adaptations of Hughes’s speeches published in Foreign Affairs magazine. Also included is material chronicling a preface Hughes wrote for the Bureau of Intelligence and Research’s Vietnam study after it was declassified in 2004. The notes in this series are extensive and cover a wide variety of topics ranging from personal and professional meetings, to impressions of projects, colleagues, and current events, and ideas for article and speech content. Hughes's notes are filed across the collection in multiple series. Other series with significant notes include the Department of State, Bureau of Intelligence and Research file and Carnegie Endowment for Intentional Peace Subject file.
The Boards and Associations series documents Hughes’s involvement with various international affairs think tanks and nongovernmental organizations. Hughes served on the boards of several institutions that aimed to conduct foreign policy research and to strengthen diplomatic relations between the United States and its Western allies. Several of these boards and associations specifically focus on United States-German relations. Major topics include the global economy, German reunification, international security and defense, the recruitment and selection of new board members, fundraising and grants, and logistics for meetings, conferences, and lectures.
Material types include correspondence, meeting minutes, notes, reports, conference programs, and clippings.
The Personal File contains material related to Hughes’s education, military service, and endeavors outside of his later professional career. Correspondence written and received by Hughes while an undergraduate at Carleton College (1943-1947), a Rhodes Scholar at Balliol College, University of Oxford (1947-1949), law student at Yale Law School (1949-1952), and lieutenant in the Air Force (1953-1954) comprises the majority of the series. Major topics include Hughes’s involvement with the Student Federalists movement, especially as national president from 1944 to 1945, travels around Europe in the postwar period, work with the Foundation for World Government in ʻEn ha-Shofeṭ, Israel, in the summer of 1950, and early work as a law student with the Senate Subcommittee on Labor and Labor Management Relations in the summer of 1951. Letters across the series feature Hughes's parents, Evan Raymond Hughes and Alice Lowe Hughes, friends, and contacts from the Student Federalists movement. The correspondence in this series was maintained as received and is organized by institution with which Hughes was affiliated or location at which he resided at a given time. Researchers should note that many topics and correspondents, namely contacts associated with the Student Federalists movement, are spread across the series. Researchers should also consult the General Correspondence file, as relevant correspondence from Hughes’s pre-career years is included, though to a limited degree.
Material types include correspondence, photographs, military papers, and printed material.
Material types include correspondence, memoranda, notes, and briefings primarily from Thomas Hughes’ tenure at the Department of State.
The papers of Ann Cottrell Free (1916-2004) span the years 1854-2018, with the bulk of the material dating from 1935 to 2000. The collection documents Free’s personal life and professional career as a journalist, author, environmentalist, and animal welfare advocate. The papers are primarily in English, with French, Spanish, and Chinese. The collection is organized into eight series: Personal File, Correspondence, Speeches and Writings, Subject File, Photographs, Notebooks and Diaries, National Security Classified Information, and Oversize.
The collection focuses on both Free’s personal life and professional career. The bulk of the collection is arranged by subject and reflects file groupings and folder titles created and maintained by Free. As a result, the collection is highly interconnected with related topical files found in multiple locations within and across series. Prior to donation to the Library of Congress, Free’s daughter, Elissa Blake Free, also arranged some of the material, sometimes including personal notes to provide greater context to the files. Some personalized or unconventional folder headings were placed in quotation marks to reflect Free’s original terminology and language used throughout the collection. The collection reflects the many topics Free was passionate about and explored in her writing throughout her life. Prominent topics include animal welfare, the environment, nature, civil rights, the plight of refugees, and the empowerment of women.
The collection’s series are listed and briefly described below. A fuller description of each series and a list of its contents can be accessed in the series descriptions within the container list.
The Personal File series primarily contains biographical material that provide an overview of Free’s life and career.
The Correspondence series comprises personal and professional correspondence from Free’s family, friends, and colleagues, the bulk of which spans from 1937 to 1997.
The Speeches and Writings series comprises articles, books, short stories, speeches, and essays written by Free.
The Subject File series largely consists of working and background files that document the breadth of topics Free wrote about throughout her career.
The Photographs series comprises prints, negatives, and scrapbooks that mostly document Free, her family, her friends, and her travels in the late 1940s.
The Notebooks and Diaries series contains Free’s notebooks and diaries spanning from her college years in the late 1930s until her death in 2004.
The remaining series contain Oversize and National Security Classified Information material.
The Personal File series primarily contains biographical material that provides an overview of Free’s life and career. This is largely reflected in transcripts of detailed oral history interviews with Free regarding her animal advocacy efforts, experiences as a female journalist in the 1940s, and work in China with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. Other biographical material includes awards, biographical sketches, articles about Free, résumés, and files related to her birth, marriage, and death. Of particular interest in the series is a file of notes and correspondence related to sessions with psychologist Elaine W. Cotlove in which Free discusses and analyzes her romantic relationships with women in the 1930s and 1940s. The series also contains material related to Free's family, mostly the papers of her mother, Emily Blake Cottrell, including correspondence, notebooks, and diaries. Free’s correspondence with her mother, however, is maintained primarily in the Correspondence series. While the series contains biographical and autobiographical material, similar files can be found throughout other series in the collection, mostly in Free's writings, diaries, and notebooks.
Material types include résumés, transcripts, awards, certificates, clippings, business cards, correspondence, recipes, and notes. Some textual material is in digital format. The file structure of the digital content maintained as received.
The Correspondence series comprises personal and professional correspondence from Free's family, friends, and colleagues, the bulk of which spans from 1937 to 1997. The correspondence is wide-ranging, touching on many aspects of Free’s life and career. Details of her travels in the 1940s are reflected within the series in letters to Emily Blake Cottrell and John Oudine, in a subject file on India, and in a compilation of letters to and from her travel companion, Verna Mae Feuerhelm Cody. Other files of note include letters related to Free’s romantic relationships with Margaret Johnson, Claude James, and Isabelle Ziegler. A file of “early job letters” reflects Free’s experiences with sexism in the journalism profession from the 1930s to 1950s. The series does not represent the entirety of correspondence in the collection as letters are filed throughout other series. Researchers are encouraged to consult the Subject File series for correspondence related to specific subjects.
Material types include letters, memoranda, invitations, greeting cards, telegrams, faxes, postcards, photographs, and writings.
The Speeches and Writings series comprises articles, books, short stories, poems, speeches, and essays written by Free. The bulk of the writings spans from 1942 to 1999. In addition to published and unpublished writings, the files contain drafts, working files, and background on Free’s publishing company, Flying Fox Press. Files are mostly arranged by type of writing, with the exception of a group of files Free arranged by subject that include a largely unorganized mix of articles, drafts, notes, and fragments. Additional files containing both published and unpublished writings, namely Free’s writings on the Animal Welfare Act, Rachel Carson, China, the Marshall Plan, Albert Schweitzer, and Eleanor Roosevelt, can be found in the Subject File. Notable unpublished manuscripts in this series mostly focus on animal welfare topics. Free’s unpublished manuscript about her experiences in China in the 1940s and her biography of Rachel Carson can be found in the Subject File. Some writings arranged by subject also include photographs, most notably the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps and Women's Royal Navy Service files.
Material types include articles, poems, essays, books, speeches, short stories, outlines, notes, clippings, drafts, correspondence, photographs, and advertisements. Some textual and visual material and images are in digital formats. The file structure of the digital content maintained as received.
The bulk of the collection, the Subject File series largely consists of working and background files that document the breadth of topics Free wrote about throughout her career. Most of the files in the series relate to animals and animal welfare issues including humane societies, animal legislation, laboratory animals, farm animals, pets, wildlife, ethics, and specifically the relationships between humans and animals. Other significant files focus on topics Free revisited throughout her life and wrote about in detail. These include extensive files on famine and politics in post war China, Eleanor Roosevelt and her relationship with the female press corps, the “reverence for life” philosophy of Albert Schweitzer, and Rachel Carson and her impact on environmental activism. Many of these files contain writings, correspondence, notes, speeches, diaries, photographs, and research files. The series also documents Free’s involvement with the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, Mrs. Roosevelt’s Press Conference Association, National Press Club (previously the Washington Press Club), Rachel Carson Council, Society of Woman Geographers, and many local and national humane societies and animal welfare associations. Other noteworthy individuals documented within the series include Elisabeth De Croÿ, Zhou Enlai, Ellen Glasgow, Temple Grandin, Lister Hill, Mary Hornaday, Ruby Black, Edouard Nies-Berger, Malvina Stephenson, Christine Stevens, and Ernest P. Walker.
Material types include clippings, notes, correspondence, writings, printed matter, and photographs.
The Photographs series comprises prints, negatives, and scrapbooks that mostly document Free, her family, her friends, and travels in the late 1940s. The photographs represent a mix of professional portraits and snapshots. The travel photographs are extensive and document Free’s travels with Verna Mae Feuerhelm Cody in 1946 and 1947 throughout Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Of note from this trip are many photographs from India taken around the time the Indian Independence Act went into effect in 1947. A detailed itinerary of this trip can be found in the "Around the world with Ann and Verna" file in the Subject File series. Other photographs documenting Free’s travels include those related to her position with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in China and work in Europe reporting on the Marshall Plan. The oral history photographs include noteworthy images handpicked by the donor to accompany transcripts found in the Personal File series. Researchers should be aware that photographs exist in other series within the collection and were retained within those files to maintain appropriate context.
Material types include prints, negatives, and scrapbooks.
This series contains Free’s notebooks and diaries spanning from the early 1930s until her death in 2004. Some notebooks are labeled according to topic, but most are chronological, documenting both professional and personal aspects of her life. In most cases, there is little distinction between the personal and professional, with many notebooks featuring notes on articles, drafts, interviews, and research as well as more domestic matters including appointments, grocery shopping, and house maintenance. Noteworthy diaries include those reflecting her time in China, India, and Europe in the 1940s. Also of note are notebooks related to Rachel Carson and a group of notebooks surrounding the birth of her daughter, Elissa Blake Free, in 1955.
Material types include notebooks, diaries, journals, daybooks, and note cards.
The National Security Classified Information series contains one incomplete report prepared for the Secretary of State for Public Affairs providing an analysis of stereotyped concepts of the United States perpetuated in the Soviet Union and neighboring countries.
Material types include posters, photographs, blueprints, notes, newsletters, buttons, a travel satchel, a diploma, a menu, and an award.
The papers of Joseph Taggart McNarney (1893-1972) span the years 1917 to 1957, with the bulk of material dating between 1944 and 1947. The collection primarily consists of office logbooks with summaries of McNarney's daily meetings including attendees, topics, and decisions. The logbooks document his time as deputy supreme allied commander of the Mediterranean Theatre (October 1944 to September 1945) and as commanding general, United States Forces, European Theater, and military governor of the American-occupied zone in Germany (November 1945 to March 1947). Also included are a 1941 diary and family photographs.
The collection provides insight into the American entry into World War II and the last months of World War II in Europe as well as the immediate postwar period. The 1941 diary documents McNarney's daily activities as chief of staff of the United States Army Special Observer Group in London. Topics include his role in planning for the eventuality of the United States entering the war, British use of land-lease supplies, a trip to Moscow to assess Soviet military viability, and involvement in negotiations over the allocation of United States military aircraft. Entries in the logbooks cover discussions and planning for Allied offenses in northern Italy in the spring of 1945 and the responses to the capitulation of German forces in Italy. McNarney's logs from the postwar period include discussions of demobilization of United States forces, staffing issues, denazification policies, food rationing, and treatment of displaced persons.
The papers of Edwin Swillinger span the years 1945 to 2021, with the bulk of the material dating from 1945 to 1954. The collection documents Swillinger's service as a medic in the United States Army during the Allied occupation of Japan following World War II. The collection consists primarily of photographs and military ephemera, such as camp newsletters, meal tickets, and Selective Service orders, taken from a scrapbook kept by Swillinger to document his military service and that of his twin brother, Richard Swillinger. Photographs are mainly candid and depict primarily military personnel and installations in the United States and Japan, including images of Nagasaki, Japan, in 1946 showing the aftereffects of the atomic bomb on the landscape. Material not part of the scrapbook consists of photocopies of letters written by Swillinger to his then-girlfriend Rose Marie Hartman, and a 1947 English translation of a 1945 report by Japanese doctors into the effects of radiation on the population of Nagasaki.
Material removed from the scrapbook has been photocopied to promote ease of access and preservation of the originals. Researchers are asked to use the photocopies in lieu of the originals, where available.
The papers of Henry Harley Arnold (1886-1950) span the years 1903 to 1967, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the years of World War II (1940-1946). The collection is large and contains material on almost all aspects of Arnold's adult life. The most comprehensive documentation, however, covers Arnold's tenure as chief of the United States Army Air Corps (1938-1942), chief of the army air forces (1941-1942), and commanding general of the army air forces (1942-1946). These changes in nomenclature reflect the growth of the military air arm from a small auxiliary of the army in the 1930s to a massive semi-autonomous armed service in World War II which became formally independent of the Army in 1947. Arnold, one of the nation's earliest military pilots, built what became the modern United States Air Force, and his papers are a documentation of that creation.
The papers are divided into a number of series and subseries. Several of the subseries contain detailed indexes which were prepared contemporaneously by Arnold's military staff or later by personal assistants either to Arnold or his wife, Eleanor Pool Arnold, after he left active service. In some cases, documents on the same or similar subjects are found in different subseries. When Arnold's papers arrived at Library of Congress, large sections came in an arrangement devised by Arnold and his staff during the creation and use of the papers. It was judged best not to modify Arnold's arrangement because it reflected Arnold's use of the papers and because several of these sections came with detailed indexes providing excellent research access to this material.
The Family Papers series, 1922-1955, consists largely of correspondence between Arnold and his family during the 1930s and 1940s. Most of this correspondence deals with family affairs along with some family business activities.
The Journals and Notebooks series, 1908-1946, includes a few journals that go back to Arnold's earliest flying days and the army air corps. Of significant interest are Arnold's notebooks from World War II when he took part in several of the major wartime conferences of the Allied leadership. Arnold kept notes on those meetings in small pocket diaries. These notes were later transcribed, and Arnold often interspersed with the typed transcriptions documents relating to the events noted in the journals. Arnold's notes include both substantive remarks about the issues discussed as well as observations about the principal figures at the conferences and physical aspects of the trip. Among the key wartime conferences recorded in Arnold's journals are those of Roosevelt and Churchill at Placentia Bay in 1941, the 1943 Cairo conferences with Roosevelt and Churchill, the Teheran conference with Stalin, Churchill and Roosevelt, and the 1944 Roosevelt-Churchill conference at Quebec. Also present are journals Arnold kept for wartime inspection trips to Great Britain, China, North Africa and the Pacific theater.
The Correspondence series, 1907-1967, is divided into several subseries. The Chronological subseries consists largely of military correspondence, reports, memoranda, and other official documents. Among its earliest items are the 1911 reports of then Second Lieutenant Arnold on his training as a pilot by the Wright brothers aviation company. Also present are copies of letters from Wilbur and Orville Wright to Arnold in which the Wrights answer Arnold's technical questions about the aircraft the brothers were building for the army. By 1939 Arnold was a brigadier general in charge of America's growing but still small army air corps. His files for 1939 and 1940 are filled with reports by American military observers in Europe about the rapid evolution of German, French, and British aircraft and air warfare tactics under the pressure of combat. As one report noted, European fighter aircraft in 1940 were routinely equipped with guns whose firepower was several times that of existing American fighters. Under Arnold's command, America's military air arm quickly caught up with and then surpassed in lethality those of other nations. Present in Arnold's 1945 file is an 8 August 1945 report to him on the dropping of the atomic bomb that begins “Hiroshima is no more.”
The Congratulatory and Condolence Letters subseries comprises files generally in chronological order for major events in Arnold's life.
The General Correspondence subseries is further divided into two parts. The first is an alphabetical file consisting largely of correspondence and other documents of a military or semiofficial nature from Arnold's World War II years, although correspondence about personal matters is also found. The second part of this subseries, a Serial file, 1946-1950, consists of files numbered 1 through 714. Access to these numbered files is provided by an index which lists personal names or private institutions with a designation of the numbered file in which relevant material can be found. The material in these files is a mixture of correspondence and other documents dealing with Arnold's professional and personal activities after his retirement.
The Personal Correspondence subseries includes material from the early 1930s and the period from 1943 to 1950. The material for 1930-1934 is largely professional correspondence dealing with aviation and army air corps activities. The files for 1943-1950 consists largely of documents dealing with Arnold's purchase and maintenance of a residential property in Sonoma, California, to which he retired after his World War II duties.
The Military File series is the largest in the collection and is extremely rich with material on all aspects of American military air activity in World War II: mobilization, organization, supply, weaponry, training, personnel, strategy, command, intelligence, and technology. Only the official records of the army air force exceed in abundance the resources offered by the Arnold papers for the study of American air warfare in World War II. Much of the material in the Military File series consists of copies of official records which can be found at the National Archives. What gives this collection research interest is that it consists of copies of those documents that Arnold or his staff regarded as of sufficient significance to cull from the flood of paper that passed through his office during World War II.
In the Military File, the first subseries, entitled the Decimal File, 1940-1945, consists of military documents, messages, correspondence, memoranda, and reports filed in accordance with a decimal filing system (similar to the Dewey decimal system) used by the army during World War II. Access to the material in these files in best sought by use of two card-file indexes. The first index is alphabetical by the name of an individual connected to the documents. The index gives the decimal files in which documents by or about that person can be found. The second index is alphabetical by subject, institution, or organization. The indexes are detailed, with the name index taking up containers 39-46 and the subject index containers 47-60. In addition to the decimal designation, some of the decimal files also have subject matter titles which have been included in the container listing of the Arnold Papers.
The Message File subseries consists of incoming and outgoing official cables and other messages between Arnold's headquarters and other offices during World War II. Most messages are filed alphabetically by subject, office, or the name of a frequent correspondent, Dwight Eisenhower, for example. This subseries also contains a chronological file of Arnold's incoming and outgoing messages filed under his name.
The Official File subseries includes military reports, memoranda, correspondence, and other documents designated by files numbered 1-287 and 516-540. Files 1-210 have subject matter titles in alphabetical order while files numbered 211-287 have geographic area titles in alphabetical order along with a few files for non-geographic military commands, ferrying command, for example. Files numbered 516-540 contain a variety of reports, logs, and extensive documentation deriving from the investigation of the Pearl Harbor attack and the role of the army air force in that disaster. Indexes are available for both of these numbered sequences. Files numbered 288-515 are not extant in the Arnold Papers.
The Reports subseries, 1913-1949, consists of official military reports related to air warfare topics. Some of the reports are printed or near-print reports while others are in manuscript form. General reports largely concern the overall status of American military air power. Specialized reports relate to a variety of topics, such as atomic energy, analytic studies of American air warfare campaigns during World War II, and estimates of German war potential.
The Subject File subseries, 1917-1950, deals with a wide variety of official, professional, and private matters, treating such diverse topics as “Elks in Mexico, ” regarding the fraternal order of Elks, military aircraft production, 1938-1945, and the 1941 Argentia conference of Allied leaders in Newfoundland. Most of the files deal with important military affairs during World War II.
The Miscellany subseries, 1934-1951, of the Military File series also contains a variety of files, including a chronological file of army air force air adjutant general memoranda and messages; a chronological mail log for Arnold's office listing “to,” “from,” and the subject of correspondence; a chronological file of Arnold's military correspondence spanning 1934-1945, the bulk of which is concentrated during World War II and deals with a wide variety of military topics; and an extensive chronological log of incoming telephone calls, often with notes on the subject of the call. In addition to the telephone logs, this subseries also includes a number of transcripts of telephone conversations between Arnold and members of his staff with other officials. Files of official war communiques publicly released by military offices relate to the course of the war effort. A Personal File index for files numbered 1-50 is included but only files numbered 34-40 and 42 are present in the collection.
The Postmilitary File, 1946-1949, contains Arnold's extensive correspondence after his retirement. The correspondence is divided into two sets, “A” and “B,” and is filed alphabetically. Indexes are provided for both sets. This series also contains subject matter files on the B-36 bomber, atomic testing, and congressional hearings on aviation policy.
The Speeches and Writings series, 1923-1955, includes Arnold's extensive speeches and writings, most of which relate to aviation and military matters. Arnold had a clear sense that he was taking part in the creation of a powerful American air arm, and many of his speeches and essays reflect his sensibility about the history-making character of the events he was discussing. Also in this series are files related to his 1949 book Global Mission, his memoir of the army air force in World War II.
Among the Miscellany series, 1903-1963, are photographs, financial papers, and biographical material, printed material, and other items that further reflect Arnold's historical sensitivity, especially the material he collected about the early years of American military aviation. Included are photographs, lists and biographies of early pilots, contemporaneous print and near-print accounts of important events in military aviation history, and extensive scrapbooks.
The Jo Chamberlin File, 1941-1989, consists of scrapbooks containing memoranda, reports, speeches, military papers, printed matter, and other miscellaneous material reflecting Chamberlin's assignment to the Office of Information Services, Army Air Forces, and as an aide to Arnold. Included are drafts of reports to the secretary of war by the commanding general, Army Air Forces, with annotations by Arnold, speeches drafted by Chamberlin for Arnold, reports from the Aleutian Island Campaign, information regarding 'foo-fighters,' and writings on Chamberlin's trip to Germany in the waning days of World War II.
The Classified series consists of security classified items removed from the collection. Removal sheets for all such material can be found in the files from which the items were removed. When any item in this series is declassified, it is restored to its original file. Classified items are not included on the microfilm edition of the Arnold Papers prepared in 1995.
Correspondence between Arnold and family members; also includes newspaper clippings.
Journals, notebooks, notes, and typescripts of notes primarily documenting Arnold's trips and conferences.
Correspondence and memoranda between Arnold and colleagues, friends, and the public, including incoming and outgoing letters and related material such as reports, flight records, commendations, and printed matter pertaining to Arnold's professional and personal interests.
Incoming and outgoing letters relating to various occasions, such as awards, promotions, and Arnold's death.
Correspondence and related material documenting Arnold's personal and professional activities and letters sent and received by his wife, Eleanor Pool Arnold.
Letters between Arnold and friends, colleagues, and the public pertaining to personal and professional interests.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, orders, directives, clippings, and printed matter documenting Arnold's military career.
Chiefly incoming and outgoing cables and related material, such as reports, logs, and lists pertaining to military matters.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, orders, directives, background information, clippings, and printed matter.
General reports, chiefly administrative and congressional, and special reports, including administrative, technical, and intelligence.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, notes, and printed matter.
Directives, messages, transcripts of telephone conversations, reports, war communiques, and lists.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, background information, printed matter, and other papers documenting Arnold's interests and activities after his retirement.
Correspondence, speeches, statements, articles, notes, drafts and proofs of Arnold's memoirs, Global Mission, and related material.
Correspondence, memoranda, financial papers, biographical information, photographs, personnel records, scrapbooks, and printed matter.
Card file describing mail received by Arnold.
Scrapbooks compiled by Jo Chamberlin, containing memoranda, reports, speeches, military papers, printed matter, and other material.
Oversize reports and scrapbooks.
Classified material.
The papers of Joshua Lockwood Logan (1908-1988) span the years 1723-1992, with the bulk of the items concentrated in the period 1940-1980. The collection documents Logan's career as a director, producer, and author of stage and film productions. Included are family papers, correspondence, business papers, financial papers, production records, writings, and scrapbooks.
The Family Papers series contains correspondence between Logan and his family, primarily his mother, Sue Nabors Noble, his wife, Nedda Harrigan Logan, and his stepsister, Lois Noble Smith. Logan's early years are reflected in his school and military papers. A group of files labeled “mental health” document his struggle with manic depression and his involvement with Merrill Moore, a noted psychiatrist. A small genealogical section contains photocopied records of the Lee, Lockwood, and Logan families as well as a few original eighteenth and nineteenth century letters and documents.
The General Correspondence series in the collection contains letters from Logan's friends, colleagues, and the general public. Notable are Zinn Arthur, Irving Berlin, Bennett Cerf, Oscar Hammerstein, Leland Hayward, William Inge, Mary Martin, James A. Michener, Jo Mielziner, Richard Rodgers, Rosalind Russell, James Stewart, and Emlyn Williams. Additional correspondence from individuals can be located in the Production File under the shows with which they were associated. For example, letters from Mary Martin appear with material on South Pacific and the production of Miss Moffat in 1974.
The Business Papers reflect Logan's multifaceted involvement in the theater world as well as his personal business matters. Correspondence with agents includes management of Logan's career in addition to employment inquiries from authors and actors. The financial papers include Logan's investments in theater productions and the stock market. Correspondence with Logan's entertainment lawyers in the legal section contains much information on the preparation of his shows, as do the interoffice memoranda and office diaries. The projects section contains idea files and material related to the many properties on which Logan held or negotiated an option but never actually mounted. Shows staged with his active participation are represented with various materials in the Production File.
The Production File consists of papers relating to the preparation and management of shows in which Logan was personally connected as director, producer, author, or actor. Also included are productions for which Logan was hired but from which he resigned before the show opened. In cases where Logan was involved in both the stage and screen version of a work, separate files have been maintained. Subjects relate to casting, financial management, legal matters, derivative productions such as touring companies and amateur performances, publicity, research, reviews, and tickets, including benefit shows. The working papers sections contain correspondence and notes on rehearsals, performance quality, plot development, script revisions, costumes, set design, location arrangements, equipment, and editing. The amount of material on each show varies greatly. Some productions, such as South Pacific, are well documented, while others, such as By Jupiter, have very little information. Related material can be found in the Business Papers under legal papers, interoffice memoranda, and office diaries. The Miscellany series contains scrapbooks for most of the major shows with which Logan was associated.
The Writings File, arranged alphabetically by author, includes scripts submitted to Logan for his consideration or advice. The scripts listed under Logan's name are those in which he was actively engaged in writing or revising. Logan's writings also include articles, books, poetry, short stories, song lyrics, and speeches. Related material, such as contracts, correspondence, outlines, notes, publicity, reviews, and royalty statements, accompany Logan's drafts.
The Miscellany series primarily contains newspaper and magazine clippings about Logan and his family. Pamphlets relating to Konstantin Stanislavsky are filed with autographs and printed material. Other material includes awards, certificates, memoranda, scrapbooks for many of Logan's best-known productions, and a scrapbook containing original artwork from Logan's military school days.
Biographical data, genealogies, correspondence among family members, diaries, medical and mental health papers, and military records.
Letters to and from friends and business associates of Joshua and Nedda Logan.
Correspondence, financial data, interoffice memoranda, legal papers, office diaries, and notes.
Blueprints, correspondence, financial data, legal papers, memoranda, newspaper clippings, notes, and printed material relating to productions with which Logan was associated.
Contracts, correspondence, drafts, newspaper clippings, notes, outlines, royalty statements, and typescripts pertaining to the writings of Joshua Logan and others.
Autographs, awards, certificates, newspaper clippings, notes, and printed material.
Oversize items consisting mostly of awards, certificates, blueprints, scrapbooks, production budget sheets, and printed material.
The papers of Elmer Gertz (1906-2000) span the years 1789-1997, with the majority of the papers concentrated from 1926 to 1988. The bulk of the papers documents Gertz's career as a lawyer, author, and manuscript collector. The collection consists of eight series: Family Papers, General Correspondence, Legal File, Subject File, Speeches and Writings File, Miscellany, Addition, and Oversize.
The Family Papers series, 1926-1991, consists primarily of letters between Gertz and family members concerning personal matters. Gertz's letters to his children, Theodore G. Gertz and Margery A. Hechtman, often summarize his professional and personal activities, providing a glimpse of the attorney's busy schedule.
The papers in the General Correspondence series, 1925-1991, also chronicle Gertz's varied interests. Incoming and outgoing correspondence relates to personal and professional matters, including various commissions and organizations with which Gertz was associated. A few of the notable correspondents in this series are Louis Adamic, Richard J. Daley, Paul Howard Douglas, Albert Einstein, Eli E. Fink, Arthur J. Goldberg, Carey McWilliams, Leo Calvin Rosten, Carl Sandburg, and George Sylvester Viereck.
The Legal File, 1905-1992, constituting over half of the collection, documents Gertz's lengthy and prominent legal career. Papers in the series are divided into two subseries: Personal and Professional. The Personal subseries, 1950-1988, pertains to cases in which Gertz was a litigant. The private lawsuit which brought Gertz national attention was Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., a precedent-setting case which changed libel laws throughout the nation. The Chicago attorney sued the publishers of a John Birch Society publication for reporting that Gertz was involved in a Communist plot to discredit the Chicago Police Department. The United States Supreme Court ruled that Gertz, as a private individual, did not have to prove “actual malice” to receive compensatory damages.
The Professional subseries, 1905-1992, consists of correspondence and memoranda, chiefly between Gertz and clients, lawyers, and judges, as well as extensive legal files including opinions, orders, briefs, writs, motions, petitions, exhibits, and transcripts. Both case files and client files reflect the wide range of cases handled by Gertz, particularly those involving libel, obscenity, capital punishment, and copyright issues. One of Gertz's clients was novelist Henry Miller, who challenged charges that his work was obscene. Gertz fought successfully in Illinois against censorship of the writer's book Tropic of Cancer.
Another of Gertz’s clients, Nathan Freudenthal Leopold, was convicted with Richard Loeb of murdering fourteen-year-old Bobby Franks in a sensational trial that captivated the nation in 1924. Gertz later helped Leopold obtain a parole after thirty-four years in prison. Correspondence relating to Leopold's release is located in the early correspondence files of Leopold v. Levin, Leopold's suit seeking compensation from Meyer Levin, whose book and film, Compulsion, were based on the murder and subsequent trial. Background files for the Levin case also contain court documents and other material relating to Leopold's murder trial, Illinois v. Leopold.
Gertz was also one of a team of lawyers representing Jack Ruby, who was convicted of killing Lee Harvey Oswald, assassin of President John F. Kennedy, in November 1963. Gertz joined the defense team in December 1964 and assisted with Ruby's appeal which succeeded in getting his death sentence set aside. Several items in the Ruby v. Texas case file are worthy of mention: Ruby's letter to his brother Earl, located in the folder "Miscellaneous, 1964-70, undated"; Ruby's note to Gertz of 9 September 1965, located in the folder "Correspondence, Aug.-Sept. 1965"; and a reporter's note to Gertz describing his visit with Ruby shortly before Ruby's death, located in the folder "Correspondence, Mar.-Aug. 1967, undated" Additional material pertaining to Ruby may be found in the Speeches and Writings File relating to Gertz’s book Moment of Madness: The People vs. Jack Ruby.
Papers in the Subject File series, 1894, 1903-1990, illustrate Gertz's diverse interests and activities. This series chronicles his service with committees and organizations and documents his duties as a delegate and committee chair of the Illinois constitutional convention, 1969-1970; his work with the Chicago Bar Association, 1977-1985 and the Illinois Coalition Against the Death Penalty, 1977-1985; and his membership on the Chicago Citizens Commission to Study the Disorders of Convention Week (1968 Democratic national convention). Also reflected in the series is Gertz's interest in various historical and literary figures: James Baldwin, Clarence Darrow, Frank Harris, John F. Kennedy, Henry Miller, Carl Sandburg, Harry S. Truman, and Bernard Shaw. Other topics prominently featured include censorship, housing, obscenity, and the death penalty. There is some overlap between this series and the General Correspondence series, and many of the same individuals appear in both series. Also included are legal papers relating to Gertz's consultations in his later years.
The Speeches and Writings File, 1888-1990, document Gertz’s activities as a prolific writer and speaker interested not only in legal matters but in literary subjects as well. Some of his most voluminous papers relate to two of his books, Frank Harris: A Study in Black and White and Odyssey of a Barbarian: The Biography of George Sylvester Viereck. Gertz corresponded with both Harris and Viereck and accumulated a large amount of research material pertaining to each, including some of their original manuscripts, numerous autograph letters, and notes from prominent literary figures. The Viereck research material includes one reel of microfilm of original material not in the collection, letters and messages of Sigmund Freud to Viereck. Other books by Gertz include A Handful of Clients, a description of some of the attorney's more interesting clients, and To Life, an account of his personal and professional life.
The Miscellany series, 1789, 1860-1991, consists chiefly of manuscripts and printed matter collected by Gertz, which complement material in the Speeches and Writings File and pertain to his general research interests. Also included in the series are papers relating to his academic career and his awards and honors.
The Addition series supplements previous installments of the Gertz Papers and span the years 1921-1997, with the bulk concentrated from 1989-1996. The Addition includes correspondence, memoranda, family papers, legal files, subject files, and writings. The subject file, comprising almost half of the addition, reflects Gertz’s affiliation with organizations such as the Blind Service Association, the Caxton Club, and the Decalogue Society of Lawyers. Also documented in the subject file is Gertz’s interest in writers Frank Harris and George Sylvester Viereck and the assassination of John F. Kennedy. The writings file in the Addition relates primarily to Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc. and the revised 1990 edition of Gertz’s memoir To Life. This file also includes a number of articles and book reviews that Gertz wrote for Real Crime Book Digest.
Among the most prominent and frequent correspondents are George Anastaplo, Allen Crandall, Paul Crump, Richard M. Daley, Lord Alfred Bruce Douglas, Otto Eisenschiml, Wayne B. Giampietro, Frank Harris, Samuel G. Herman, John F. Kennedy, Nathan Leopold, Gene Lovitz, Russ Meyer, Henry Miller, Hesketh Pearson, Muriel Peters, Peter Pollack, Jack Ruby, William F. Ryan, Edward P. Schwartz, Upton Sinclair, Kate Stephens, A. I. Tobin, George Sylvester Viereck, Peter Robert Edwin Viereck, and William W. Witherspoon.
Correspondence between Gertz and family members with attachments and enclosures. Other papers include estate papers, invitations, notes, genealogical material, writings, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence and memoranda, including attachments, between Gertz and friends, acquaintances, clients, and the public relating to his personal and professional activities.
Correspondence, memoranda, briefs, orders, opinions, motions, reports, financial papers, statements, background information, and printed matter pertaining to legal cases in which Gertz was a litigant.
Correspondence, memoranda, orders, opinions, briefs, writs, motions, petitions, financial papers, exhibits, depositions, transcripts, reports, notes, interviews, architectural plans and specifications, contracts, statements, writings, printed matter, and background information relating to Gertz's professional activities and interests.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes of meetings, invitations, speeches, statements, writings, resolutions, background information, financial and legal papers, notes, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, speeches, research material, announcements and programs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, handwritten drafts and typescripts of books, articles, reviews, research material, interviews, pamphlets, prefaces to books, poetry, notes, outlines, newspaper clippings, and printed matter. Includes one reel of microfilm* of Sigmund Freud-George Sylvester Viereck correspondence, the originals of which are not in the collection.
Correspondence, memoranda, calendars, original manuscripts and printed matter collected by Gertz, financial papers, academic papers, biographical material, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, family papers, legal files, subject files, speech material, articles, book reviews, background information, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed matter.
Oversize material consisting of broadsides, a scrapbook, and copies of design plans.
The papers of Archibald MacLeish cover the period from 1907 to 1981, with the bulk of the material dated between 1925 and 1970. Although MacLeish gave most of his literary manuscripts to Yale University, the Library of Congress's collection is particularly rich in its assemblage of correspondence reflecting MacLeish's relationships with personal friends, literary colleagues, and government associates and in its holdings of MacLeish's notebooks containing the origins of some of his greatest poems. The papers also include notes, worksheets, and manuscript drafts which detail the development of several of MacLeish's plays as well as document the political and moral convictions which motivated the many speeches and radio broadcasts he made both before and during World War II. Notes and manuscripts also exist for a series of classroom lectures on the form and condition of modern poetry conducted by MacLeish while serving as Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory at Harvard University from 1949 to 1962.
Few items remain for the period prior to 1923 when MacLeish left the Boston law firm where he was employed to live in Europe, devoting his time to reading, travel, and writing poetry. The earliest material in the Correspondence series is that between MacLeish and his father, Andrew, while MacLeish was a student at Hotchkiss School and Yale University. There are also several letters from MacLeish's brother, Kenneth, whose death in action during World War I greatly affected the poet. Of additional interest are letters from personal friends, such as Robert Newton Linscott, editor at Houghton Mifflin Company, and Charles Rumford Walker, which reflect some of the personal and artistic struggles MacLeish encountered during his years abroad.
MacLeish was one of a number of American literary expatriates living in Europe between the wars, enjoying the advantages of a favorable monetary exchange rate and the camaraderie of sympathetic fellow artists and writers. Many of the friendships which MacLeish made during the 1920's continued through later years, and the Correspondence series contains substantive letters from Kay Boyle, Ernest Hemingway, Gerald and Sara Murphy, and Ezra Pound. Incoming letters are also included in the Subject File from those who, along with MacLeish, advocated the release of Pound from St. Elizabeth's Hospital, the mental institution in Washington, D.C., where the poet had been confined after he was declared incompetent to stand trial for treason at the end of World War II. Other writers, artists, and scholars with whom MacLeish corresponded include Julian P. Boyd, John Ciardi, James Bryant Conant, Mary and Padraic Colum, Malcolm Cowley, John Dos Passos, Roy Harris, Thomas Mann, Lewis Mumford, Harold George Nicolson, Saint-John Perse, Carl Sandburg, Robert E. Sherwood, Stephen Spender, John Steinbeck, Allen Tate, Louis Untermeyer, Mark Van Doren, and Alexander Woollcott.
During the 1930's MacLeish became increasingly politicized and was outspoken in support of an American commitment to protect the liberal democratic principles which he felt were being threatened by the rise of fascism in Europe. Several of his verse plays for radio, such as Air Raid (1938), The American Story (1944), and The Fall of the City (1937), illustrate these national or democratic themes. Material for these dramatic voice productions is contained in the Literary File series.
MacLeish more fully explicated his political philosophy in a series of prose pieces written for various journals and magazines throughout the 1930s and 1940s as well as in the many radio broadcasts and speeches he made during the same period. Notes and manuscript drafts for the writings are contained in the Literary File, while similar documents for the broadcasts and speeches are located in the Speeches and Lectures File. The latter series also contains copies and drafts for speeches which MacLeish prepared for Franklin D. Roosevelt, Edward R. Stettinius, Harry S. Truman, and other government officials.
From 1929 to 1938 MacLeish worked as a writer and editor for Fortune magazine, accepting the position from Henry Robinson Luce on the understanding that his commitment to the new publishing venture would be limited to the extent that, having earned enough money to satisfy his needs, MacLeish could return whenever he wished to his newly-purchased farm in Conway, Massachusetts, to work on his own writing. The Correspondence series contains a separate file for Fortune magazine and MacLeish's correspondence with Henry Robinson Luce. Other colleagues and friends from the field of publishing with whom MacLeish corresponded include Bruce Bliven, Cass Canfield, Russell Wheeler Davenport, Charles H. Duell, Clifton Fadiman, John Farrar, Ralph Ingersoll, Freda Kirchwey, Robert A. Lovett, Eugene Meyer, Charles A. Pearce, Selden Rodman, and Edward Weeks.
In 1939, President Franklin D. Roosevelt persuaded a reluctant MacLeish to accept what proved to be a controversial appointment as the ninth Librarian of Congress. MacLeish implemented a thorough reorganization of the Library's administrative offices, published the Quarterly Journal of the Library of Congress, and established the Library's series of poetry readings. Because of his managerial skills and political involvement, MacLeish was also asked to serve, concurrent with his Library position, as director of the Office of Facts and Figures and assistant director of the Office of War Information from 1941 to 1944. In 1944, after his resignation from the Library, MacLeish was appointed assistant secretary of state for cultural affairs, in which capacity he helped plan the establishment of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Although the Subject File contains headings for these government agencies, none of the files contains extensive amounts of material. Official documents produced by MacLeish in his capacity as public servant are more likely to be represented in the central files or archival records of the respective federal agency.
The Correspondence series contains correspondence and copies of memoranda with many of MacLeish's associates, as well as with public figures, both in and out of government, whom MacLeish came to know during the war years. Correspondents of interest include Dean Acheson, Francis Biddle, McGeorge Bundy, James Francis Byrnes, Benjamin V. Cohen, William J. Donovan, J. C. Dunn, Stephen T. Early, Luther Harris Evans, A. H. Feller, Felix Frankfurter, Joseph C. Grew, Haldore E. Hanson, Harry Lloyd Hopkins, Cordell Hull, Harold L. Ickes, R. Keith Kane, Robert E. Kintner, Muna Lee, John Jay McCloy, David C. Mearns, Henry Morgenthau, Eleanor Roosevelt, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Samuel Irving Rosenman, Edward R. Stettinius, Adlai E. Stevenson, Henry Lewis Stimson, Arthur Sweetser, Charles A. Thomson, Harry S. Truman, Henry Agard Wallace, James P. Warburg, and Sumner Welles.
The Literary File contains an extensive set of notes for a series of classroom lectures which MacLeish delivered at Harvard University from 1949 to 1962. The purpose of these lectures was to provide a theoretical and historical framework within which a student could analyze the structure of modern poetry. MacLeish emphasized the influence of certain poets as pivotal to the development of modern poetry, and the notes he kept are quite thorough, providing insight into his teaching techniques.
With time afforded him after his retirement from public service, MacLeish published several books of poetry, produced dramatic pieces for various media, and wrote prose works, including social and political commentary. The Literary File contains correspondence and manuscript material for collections of poems such as Actfive (1948) and New and Collected Poems, 1917-1976 (1976). Although files related to the individual poems listed in this series include some worthwhile records, many contain material of little value, in some cases nothing more than copies of poems typewritten by MacLeish.
MacLeish continued to produce verse plays for stage, radio, and television, and the Literary File contains important material relating to these dramatic productions. Manuscript drafts and worksheets are contained in the collection for MacLeish's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, J.B. (1958). Similar material, including correspondence, is also included for other dramas such as An Evening's Journey to Conway, Massachusetts (1967), The Great American Fourth of July Parade (1975), Herakles (1967), Scratch (1971), This Music Crept By Me Upon the Waters (1953), and The Trojan Horse (1952). The disorganized state of many of the manuscripts and worksheets contained throughout the collection is the result of MacLeish's work habits. Describing the state of disarray of a draft for one of his plays, MacLeish wrote that it “can't be put together because I work like the crab retreating ten steps to go forward two and thus getting nowhere.” (1)
The greatest literary treasure of the collection is a set of notebooks kept by MacLeish from 1919 through the 1940s located in the Literary File. Containing drafts of much of his poetry and prose, the notebooks help trace the creation and development of some of MacLeish's finest work. They also include notes about his travels and readings and his reflections about other writers and their conversations on literature.
A notebook kept by MacLeish in Paris for the years 1924-25 contains drafts and trial lines for poems later published in Streets in the Moon (1926), including Ars Poetica, and a partial version of the verse play, The Pot of Earth (1925). Additional works by MacLeish represented in other notebooks include The Happy Marriage (1924), The Hamlet of A. MacLeish (1928), New Found Land (1930), Conquistador (1932), Frescoes for Mr. Rockefeller's City (1933), Panic (1935), Public Speech (1936), The Fall of the City (1937), America Was Promises (1939), and Actfive (1948).
(1) J.B. drafts and worksheets, Box 27
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, telegrams, postcards, and miscellaneous enclosures.
Handwritten and typewritten drafts, correspondence, trial lines, printed copies, notes and worksheets, outlines, notebooks, proofs, and miscellaneous items relating to plays, poetry, prose pieces, screenplays and scripts, and books.
Handwritten and typewritten drafts, correspondence, trial lines, printed copies, notes and worksheets, outlines, proofs, and miscellaneous items relating to classroom lectures, interviews, and radio and television broadcasts.
Correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes of meetings, printed matter, and miscellaneous items.
Printed matter, manuscript drafts, correspondence, miscellaneous personal records, and notes.
Diary, notebooks, correspondence, a playscript, interview transcript, and printed matter.
The papers of Julius Robert Oppenheimer (1904-1967) span the years 1921 to 1980 with the bulk of the material concentrated in the period 1947-1967, the years during which Oppenheimer was director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey. The collection comprises Oppenheimer's personal papers and relates only incidentally to his directorship of the institute. The papers consist chiefly of correspondence, desk books, printed copies of Oppenheimer's lectures, statements, and scientific notes, supplemented by memoranda, inventories, photographs, and newspaper clippings.
There was no major rearrangement of these papers; Oppenheimer's own filing arrangement and cross-reference system were used wherever possible. He once described the papers as a “hideously complete archive,” and they document the many facets of his career. The collection includes material on theoretical physics, the development of the atomic bomb, the relationship between government and science, the organization of research on atomic energy, control of atomic energy and its role in international affairs, security in scientific fields, secrecy, loyalty, disarmament, the education of scientists and international intellectual exchange, the moral responsibility of the scientist, the relationship between science and culture, and the public understanding of science.
Material in the collection prior to 1941 comprises two small groups of scientific papers consisting chiefly of reprints of Oppenheimer's early scientific writings with galley proofs, holograph manuscripts by associates, and miscellaneous notes. Correspondence containing scientific calculations was written by such prominent physicists as Hans A. Bethe, Shuichi Kusaka, Wolfgang Pauli, Julian Schwinger, and Edward Teller. Oppenheimer's writings for the early years, during which he established his reputation as a theoretical physicist, is filed in the first section of the Speech, Lecture, and Writing File. An annotated list of these early writings is also included.
Documentation of Oppenheimer's wartime contributions, including his organization and direction of the Los Alamos project, is centered in the General Case File and the Government File and includes material from such figures as Hans A. Bethe, Raymond T. Birge, Vannevar Bush, Arthur H. Compton, James B. Conant, Leslie R. Groves, Ernest O. Lawrence, John H. Manley, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Robert Serber, and John Wheeler. In the Government File Supplement is formerly classified material transferred to the Library from the Atomic Energy Commission chiefly concerning the technical and administrative problems of atomic development from 1941 to 1953. Scattered throughout the collection are letters of reminiscence and Oppenheimer's comments on histories of the Los Alamos project which reflect the spirit and friendships developed during that period.
At the end of World War II, during Oppenheimer's activities as one of the chief governmental advisers on atomic questions, he served on almost every committee, both civilian and military, that dealt with the problems of atomic energy. There is a considerable amount of correspondence documenting these activities, but little material pertaining to his chairmanship of the Atomic Energy Commission's General Advisory Committee and the Committee on Atomic Energy of the Research and Development Board. The gap in this documentation is covered in part by lists and correspondence in the Security Case File. The Membership File contains references to activities of such scientific organizations as the Federation of American Scientists, the National Academy of Sciences, and various associations of atomic scientists. These files also contain information on other professional organizations, including the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, and the reevaluation by universities of the growing role of science and government within their own operations.
The control of atomic energy and its role in international affairs is a major theme in these papers. Closely associated with these subjects is Niels Bohr, a Danish physicist, whose letters and memoranda to Felix Frankfurter filed under Frankfurter's name in the General Case File relate to the idea of an open world patterned after the community of scientists. This correspondence, given to Oppenheimer by Frankfurter, is supplemented by the many letters exchanged between Oppenheimer and Bohr, numerous notes, manuscript drafts, and biographical data amassed by Oppenheimer for his lectures on “Neils Bohr and His Time.”
Oppenheimer's hearing before the Personnel Security Board of the Atomic Energy Commission drew worldwide attention and is documented in extraordinary detail. The Security Case File includes numerous drafts of biographical and autobiographical statements prepared by Oppenheimer and his wife, Katherine, for his defense. There are a few notes taken during the hearings as well as correspondence with his lawyers, Herbert Marks and Lloyd K. Garrison. Much of the correspondence, including letters from many prominent people, and various published articles reflect public attitudes. The documentation also includes voluminous newspaper clippings and printed transcripts of the proceedings.
Although there is no official material for Oppenheimer's directorship of the Institute for Advanced Study, the Personal File contains related items on his appointment and resignation and the various literary, historical, and legal studies conducted during his tenure. Letters in the General Case File between Oppenheimer and Julian Boyd, Harold Cherniss, Herbert Feis, and George Kennan delineate relationships within the academic community, and Oppenheimer's correspondence with his secretaries from 1948 to 1966 provides further insight on both the man and the institute.
Following the revocation of his security clearance in 1954, Oppenheimer traveled widely and lectured on physics and the interrelationship of science and culture. The Speech, Lecture, and Writing File reflects this activity with notes, drafts, and printed copies of his talks and an index of titles and places of delivery. The papers also document Oppenheimer's participation in the Seven Springs Farm Conference held at Mt. Kisco, New York, in 1963.
Oppenheimer planned to write a history of theoretical physics in the twentieth century, whose leading practitioners were virtually all among his principal correspondents. Prominent scientists not previously mentioned include Felix Bloch, Max Born, Robert F. Christy, John D. Cockcroft, Paul A. M. Dirac, Enrico Fermi, T. D. (Tsung Dao) Lee, Abraham Pais, R. E. Peierls, Linus Pauling, Emilio Segrè, Leo Szilard, Yang Chen Ning, and Hideki Yukawa.
The arts and humanities are also well represented in the collection. The General Case File contains folders of material from such persons as Pablo Casals, T. S. Eliot, Wallace K. Harrison, Julian Huxley, Archibald MacLeish, Nicolas Nabokov, Eleanor Roosevelt, Bertrand Russell, Albert Schweitzer, and Norman Thomas. The Membership File, particularly for the Twentieth Century Fund and UNESCO, reflects some of the international issues in the humanities with which Oppenheimer was involved.
Addition I primarily contains a small group of originals and copies of correspondence from Oppenheimer to family, friends, and professional colleagues. There are also miscellaneous files composed of printed and near-print matter, photographs, writings by others, and one reel of negative microfilm containing “A History of the Institute for Advanced Study, 1930-1950,” written by Beatrice M. Stern in 1964.
Addition II contains inventories of classified documents from the Department of the Navy, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Department of State, and the Research and Development Board. It also contains miscellaneous correspondence received from the general public.
Appointment books with a few annotations and miscellaneous notes.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, unpublished manuscripts received, secretary's notes, clippings, photographs, reports, and printed matter.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, secretary's notes, clippings, and printed matter.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, secretary's notes, clippings, minutes, and printed material.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, unpublished manuscripts received, and clippings, chiefly from autograph seekers or admirers.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, bulletins, minutes, notices, travel vouchers, receipts for classified documents, and inventories relating to projects or agencies.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, drafts, notes, press releases, clippings, and printed matter relating to security hearings.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, awards, honors, bibliographical and biographical material, financial papers, physics papers, and testimonies.
Reprints, galley proofs, and one draft.
Drafts, notes, galley proofs, requests to reprint or quote, correspondence, clippings, printed matter, and an index.
Printed matter, photographs, and an incomplete card index of Oppenheimer's memberships.
Letters received and copies of letters sent, memoranda, manuscript and near-print research reports, and scientific photographs.
Originals and copies of letters sent. Arranged alphabetically by name of recipient. Also miscellaneous files containing printed and near-print matter, photographs, writings by others, and a microfilm copy of a history of the Institute for Advanced Study.
Incoming correspondence received from the general public and inventories of classified documents.
Classified government documents consisting mostly of correspondence and reports.
Classified government documents consisting of memoranda and a report.
Restricted government documents consisting of correspondence.
The records of Alex. Brown & Sons span the years 1796-1908, with the bulk of the material dating from 1796 to 1884. Included are business records of successor companies, subsidiaries, and allied business. The records document the commercial and financial activities of Alexander Brown, his sons, and their successors, showing the development of their banking house in conjunction with extensive import-export operations, the building of ships and worldwide trade activities, and the building of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. They also reflect the company's change from a mercantile to an international banking house having connections with Brown, Shipley & Company of Liverpool, and with Brown Brothers & Company, of New York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore. The records are organized into the following series: Lettercopy Books, Letterpress Books, Daybooks, Cashbooks, Ledgers, Sterling Ledgers, Ledger Sight Bills, Journals, Sales Books, Waste Books, Accounts Current, Blotters, and Miscellany.
The firm of Alex. Brown & Sons was founded by Alexander Brown, an Irish immigrant who came to Baltimore in 1797 and engaged in the mercantile business as an importer of Irish linen. The records are largely confined to the operations of the firm's outlets in Baltimore, which served as the American headquarters for the firm's chain of offices from 1800 to 1840. Lettercopy and letterpress books generally provide a continuous, daily record of the branch's outgoing correspondence with other offices in the organization and with the branch's out-of-town customers from 1800 to 1879.
Letterbooks, in the collection contain detailed information concerning political, civil, and military affairs affecting the firm. The Lettercopy Books series, consisting of letters sent, includes records of the Falls and Brown Company, 1803-1804, and of Campbell McIlvaine & Company, 1830-1837. The Letterpress Books series is organized into three subseries. Set A includes records similar to those in the Lettercopy Books series and is distinguished from them chiefly by the copying method. Set B is comprised of letterpress copies of letters sent to Brown Shipley & Company, London, England. The letterpress copies in Set C are of letters sent to Brown Brothers & Company, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia offices.
The collection also includes financial records in a variety of formats. Daybooks are daily journals of business transactions in the order of their occurrence. Cashbooks record money received and paid out, showing date of transaction, name of customer or client, description of the transaction, and amounts received and expended. Ledgers contain postings to accounts receivable and accounts payable; they include ledgers of Falls & Brown, Baltimore, 1796-1810. Sterling Ledgers contain postings to accounts receivable and accounts payable of Alex. Brown & Sons sterling operations. Ledger Sight Bills contain a record of journal postings by bill number. Journals contain daily entries from daybooks and blotters. Sales Books appear to be logs of customer sales. Waste Books are daily journals of business transactions in the order of their occurrence; one book is from Stewart Brown, Philadelphia, and Falls & Brown, Baltimore. Accounts Current appear to be summaries of accounts receivable and accounts payable. Account entries include account name, transaction date, and description. Blotters are daily journals of business transactions.
The Miscellany series includes journals and ledgers of the Union Railroad Company sinking fund, credit rating and statements books, minute books of the Aransas Pass Harbor Company of which Brown and Sons Company was a bondholder and trustee, and of the Female Orphan Asylum, Baltimore. Also in the series is a book containing signatures of persons authorized to conduct business with Brown & Sons Company.
The collection also includes records of other Brown family firms, such as the firms of Stewart Brown, of Philadelphia, an older brother of Alexander Brown, 22 April 1796- 30 May 1797; and of Moore Falls and Stewart Brown of the firm of Falls & Brown, of Baltimore, 1797-1810. These records are not necessarily noted specifically in the descriptions below
Copies of letters sent. Some volumes contain an alphabetical index of correspondents.
Letterpress copies of letters sent. Some volumes contain an alphabetical index of correspondents.
Letterpress copies of letters sent to Brown Shipley & Co., London, England. Some volumes contain an alphabetical index of correspondents.
Letterpress copies of letters sent to Brown Brothers & Co., Boston, Mass., New York, N.Y., and Philadelphia, Pa., offices. Some volumes contain an alphabetical index of correspondents.
Daily journals of business transactions in the order of their occurrence showing store location, date of transaction, folio number, name of customer or client, nature of transaction, description of merchandise, quantities, and amounts received and expended.
Record of money received and paid out showing date of transaction, name of customer or client, transaction description, and amounts received and expended.
Volumes contain postings to accounts receivable and accounts payable. Account entries include account name, transaction date, description of transaction, folio number, and amounts credited and debited. Some volumes contain alphabetical indexes of account, customer, and client names.
Volumes are labeled "supplementary sterling ledgers" and appear to contain postings to accounts receivable and accounts payable of Alex. Brown & Sons sterling operations. Entries include account name, transaction date, description of transaction, folio number, and amounts credited and debited. Some volumes contain alphabetical indexes of account, customer, and client names.
Contains a record of journal postings by bill number. Entries include transaction date, bill number, date paid, amount paid, and folio number.
Volumes contain daily entries from daybooks and blotters. Entries include folio number, date of transaction, transaction description, and amounts credited or debited.
Volumes appear to be logs of customer sales. Entries include folio number, date of transaction, name of customer, description of merchandise, quantities purchased, and amount of money received.
Daily journals of business transactions in the order of their occurrence. Entries for each transaction include folio number, date, nature of transaction, name of customer or client, and amounts received and expended.
Volumes appear to be summaries of accounts receivable and accounts payable. Account entries include account name, transaction date, description of transaction, and amounts credited and debited. Some volumes contain alphabetical indexes of account, customer, and client names.
Daily journals of business transactions in the order of their occurrence showing store location, date of transaction, folio number, name of customer or client, nature of transaction, description of merchandise, quantities, and amounts received and expended.
Journals and ledgers for ground rent accounts held by trustees of the sinking fund of the Union Railroad Co., Baltimore, Md. Volume entries include date of transaction, account number, description of transaction, and amounts debited and credited.
Single volume denoting credit worthiness of customers and clients. Entries show date, customer or client name, and opinion concerning ability to pay, business practices, and reliability.
Letterpress copies of customers' statements of account containing date, customer name and address, description of merchandise purchased, quantities, and amounts credited and debited to account. Volume also contains weekly financial statements of Alex. Brown & Sons sterling operations and an alphabetical index of customers.
Contains minutes of meetings and copies of resolutions adopted by the board of trustees of the Aransas Pass Harbor Co., Aransas Pass, Tex., of which Brown & Sons Co. was a bondholder and trustee. Laid in are correspondence, resolutions, notes, lists, and agreements concerning acquisition of Aransas Harbor City & Improvement Co., Aransas Pass, Tex.
Single volume containing minutes of meetings of the board of directors of the Female Orphan Asylum, Baltimore, Md. Also included are financial reports and a newspaper clipping concerning the founding of the organization.
Contains signatures of persons authorized to conduct business with Brown & Sons Co. and includes letters of introduction, business cards, receipts, and signatures cut and pasted from other documents. Items entered alphabetically by name of customer or client, although some entries are not in proper order.
The records of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA), founded in 1890 by the merger of the National Woman Suffrage Association and the American Woman Suffrage Association, span the years from 1839 to 1961 but are most numerous for the period 1890-1930. These records document the organization's history and activities, and are organized into the following series: General Correspondence, Subject File, and Miscellany.
The General Correspondence series consists of correspondence with individual members and supporters of the association, and with its officials. The series also incorporates correspondence with related organizations, and with the Board of Directors, Executive Committee, and other units of NAWSA. The collection features letters from many of the leaders in the woman's rights movement, including pioneer figures such as Millicent Garrett Fawcett, Abby Kelley Foster, Helen H. Gardener, Sarah Moore Grimké, Julia Ward Howe, Florence Kelley, Mary Ashton Rice Livermore, Lucretia Mott, Anna Howard Shaw, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Emma Willard. More recent leaders are represented by Ida Husted Harper, Mary Garrett Hay, Belle Case La Follette, E. Sylvia Pankhurst, Maud Wood Park, Mary Gray Peck, Jeannette Rankin, and Rosika Schwimmer.
Other correspondents include prominent writers, reformers and political leaders such as Henry Ward Beecher, William Edgar Borah, Witter Bynner, W. H. Channing, Eugene V. Debs, Albert Einstein, Ralph Waldo Emerson, William Lloyd Garrison, William Dean Howells, Robert M. La Follette, Ben B. Lindsey, Upton Sinclair, Ainsworth Rand Spofford, Theodore Tilton, Oswald Garrison Villard, James Wolcott Wadsworth (1877-1952), Theodore Dwight Weld, and Woodrow Wilson.
The Subject File includes biographical information on some of the principal suffrage workers, a collection of antisuffrage literature, progress reports from state and local suffrage organizations affiliated with the National American Woman Suffrage Association, records relating to the work of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage, formed by the merger of NAWSA's Congressional Committee with the National Woman's Party in 1917, and litigation proceedings resulting from Mrs. Frank Leslie's bequest of one million dollars to the organization. The subject file includes important material on the official organ of the association, the Woman's Journal, 1907-1949. Among the printed items in the Miscellany series is a set of indexed scrapbooks prepared by Ida Porter Boyer which document activities in the woman's rights movement as reported in the nation's newspapers and periodicals during the years 1893-1912.
Letters sent and received, with related material such as magazine articles, newspaper clippings, pamphlets, and other printed matter, photographs, press releases, receipts, and telegrams.
Minutes, press releases, resolutions, correspondence, subscription lists, telegrams, printed matter, newsletters, notes, telegrams, and scrapbook pages relating mainly to state and local suffrage organizations and leaders in the movement. Includes a large number of published writings and photographs.
Miscellaneous material including reports, speeches, typescripts, photographs, minutes, newspaper clippings, and pamphlets; scrapbooks compiled by Ida Porter Boyer; and printed matter.
The papers of Donald Thomas Regan (1918- 2003) span the years 1919-1993, with the bulk of the collection dating from the period 1981-1987, the years in which Regan served first as secretary of the treasury and then White House chief of staff during the presidency of Ronald Reagan. Regan's career at Merrill Lynch and Company started with a training program following his military service in World War II and culminated as chief executive officer and chairman of the board. His papers, focusing mainly on his government service in the Reagan administration, are organized into three series: Treasury Department, White House, and a Personal File.
The Treasury Department series contains files from Regan's tenure as secretary of the treasury from January 1981 to January 1985. It is the largest segment of the collection and documents the economic policies of the Reagan administration. Chronological files within the series include Regan's official correspondence and a reading and information file containing material put together by Regan's executive assistant, David L. Chew, to brief the secretary on important issues and activities. Another subseries contains memoranda prepared by various offices in the Treasury Department, including those relating to domestic finance, economic policy, monetary affairs, and tax policy. A speeches and engagements file contains a chronological record of the speaking engagements, statements, and trips Regan made as secretary.
The subject file in the Treasury Department series focuses on the issues, activities, and organization relating to the Treasury Department during Regan's tenure. It includes files on the bureaus comprising the department, such as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, the Secret Service, and the United States Mint, as well as economic policy-making bodies such as the Cabinet Council on Economic Affairs, the Council of Economic Advisors, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Office of Management and Budget. A file of transition material contains briefing books on economic issues addressed at the start of the Reagan administration. Additional subjects covered include the federal budget, financial deregulation, tax cut legislation, and tax reform. Filed with material on the thrift industry are papers relating to a congressional inquiry into savings and loan institutions which took place in 1991 when Regan testified regarding policies and activities during his term as secretary of the treasury.
Individuals whose activities and correspondence are reflected in the Treasury Department files include department officials Marc Leland, Ann Dore McLaughlin, Richard T. McNamar, Roger W. Mehle, and Beryl W. Sprinkel; director of the Office of Management and Budget David Alan Stockman; head of the Federal Reserve Paul Volker; and Vice President George Bush.
In January 1985, at the start of Ronald Reagan's second term, Donald Regan and James A. Baker switched positions, with Baker becoming secretary of the treasury and Regan taking over as White House chief of staff. Papers in Regan's White House files relate to his service until his resignation on 27 February 1987. Regan's management of the day-to-day operations of the Reagan presidency is documented in the daily schedules of both Regan and the president and Regan's telephone logs of incoming and outgoing calls. Notes recording the activities and issues dealt with by the White House, including notes on meetings and conversations, are also among Regan's files.
A subject file in the White House series includes administrative and briefing documents related to Regan's appointment as chief of staff. One such document is a letter from Richard Nixon offering his impressions and advice on running the White House. Another subject treated is arms control negotiations with the Soviet Union, including files on summit meetings in Geneva, Switzerland, and Reykjavik, Iceland. Located in files relating to the Soviet Union is an exchange of correspondence between Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev that occurred in the period between these summit meetings. There is also material on the Iran-Contra Affair, some of which, along with files for his memoirs, was subpoenaed during an independent counsel's investigation into the Iran-Contra Affair. Notations and markers are attached to documents requested and examined in 1992 as part of this inquiry.
Individuals mentioned in the White House series are William Casey, Michael Deaver, Robert C. "Bud" McFarlane, John M. Poindexter, and Nancy Reagan.
The Personal File contains material related to Regan's activities outside government before and after his positions in the Reagan administration, including a few items from his career at Merrill Lynch. These files supplement a larger collection of records, including fifty-six volumes of desk diaries, schedule books, and calendars dating from 1952 to 1980, which is located in the Merrill Lynch corporate archives in New York. Other papers from the period prior to Regan's work in Washington include files of political activities and memberships in organizations ranging from the tournament policy board of the Professional Golfers' Association of America to his chairmanship of the board of trustees of the University of Pennsylvania.
Files from the period following his departure from government service include speeches and writings. Files from the preparation of his memoirs For the Record, which he wrote with the assistance of Charles McCarry, include transcripts of tapes which Regan dictated, communications with and drafts by McCarry, and research files containing such original documents from Regan's Treasury Department and White House periods as a diary of his initial days as secretary of the treasury, his handwritten account of the assassination attempt on President Reagan in 1981, as well as notes from that day, material on Reagan's cancer surgery in 1985, and the Geneva summit meeting. Among the speeches and writings are commentaries, mainly on financial topics, which Regan presented on television and radio. Papers relating to Thomas Dawson, Regan's executive assistant at the White House who moved with him to the firm Regan established, Regdon Associates, also appear among Regan's personal files.
Official and personal correspondence sent by Regan with attached material, a reading file of memoranda and notes from Regan's staff with attached related material, and a file of notes to staff.
Letters received by Regan.
Memoranda received by individuals in the Treasury Department and other government officials.
Scrapbooks containing correspondence, photographs, clippings, and other memorabilia from Regan's tenure as secretary of the treasury.
Speeches, statements, testimony, correspondence, and miscellaneous material relating to speaking engagements, trips, and other official activities undertaken by Regan.
Correspondence, memoranda, briefing books, minutes, transcripts, reports, schedules, notes, clippings, charts, and printed matter.
Correspondence, notes, memoranda, schedules, telephone logs, speeches, invitations, transcripts, clippings, reports, and printed matter.
Correspondence, memoranda, notes, speeches, book manuscripts and related material, writings, transcripts, and other material covering Regan's activities outside government service.
Government security classified correspondence, memoranda, reports, and notes.
Top secret government security classified congressional hearing transcript.
