This collection contains the papers of the World War II 52nd General Hospital, which was affiliated with Syracuse University College of Medicine and stationed at Camp Livingston, Louisiana and Kidderminster, England. The collection has five series: Photographs, Audio-Visual Materials, Memorabilia, Printed Materials, and Subject Files.
This collection consists of records produced by the Office of Academic Affairs at SUNY Upstate Medical University.
Currently, there is one series within the collection consisting of accreditation materials. Additional materials will be added over time. 
This collection contains the papers of Donald S. Childs, who graduated from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1909.
The collection has one series, Writings.
This collection contains the papers of Henry Darwin Didama, who became a Professor of Clinical Medicine at the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1872 and Dean of the College of Medicine beginning in 1888. The collection has five series: Writings, Printed Materials, Photographs, Subject Files, and Memorabilia.
This collection contains the papers of John H. Ferguson (1902-1978), who graduated from Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1926 and later taught at the university, chairing both the Pathology and Medical Jurisprudence departments. The collection has five series: Chronological Calendar, History Report to the Committee of Board of Trustees, Subject Files, Memorabilia, and Photographs.
This collection contains the papers of Seymour Fisher, who was a Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, and head of the psychology research program at SUNY Upstate Medical University. The highlights of this collection are his correspondence with colleagues and research data from his Rorschach ink blot tests. This collection has six series: Administrative and Teaching Records, Correspondence, Printed Materials, Research, Writings by Dr. Fisher, and biographical information and obituaries on Dr. Fisher.
Writings by Others.
This collection contains the papers of Leo E. Gibson, who graduated from Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1920 and was a urologist. The collection has four series: Printed Materials, Subject Files, Memorabilia, and Photographs.
This collection contains the papers of James B. Preston, who was a Professor of Physiology at SUNY Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, NY. The collection has five series: Subject Files, Photographs, Printed Materials, Lectures, and Correspondence.
This collection contains the papers of Barbara W. Streeten, who was a Professor of Ophthalmology and Pathology at
SUNY Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, NY. The collection has four series: Writings, Subject Files, Photographs, and Posters.
This collection contains the papers of Allen G. Tripp, who graduated from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1900.
The collection has two series, Writings and Memorabilia.
In 1922, the Syracuse University College of Medicine was authorized to organize and staff the 52nd General Hospital. It was organized in 1941 during World War II and called to active duty on September 1st, 1942 for basic training at Camp Livingston, Louisiana. The unit was then briefly transferred to Camp Kilmer near Brunswick, New Jersey before embarking on January 2nd, 1943 on the Queen Elizabeth with 18,000 troops. On January 8th, it disembarked at Grenoch and was taken by train to Taunton, England. It remained at Camp Norton until March 1st, when they were transferred to the permanent hospital at Wolverley, near Kidderminster, England. The unit treated casualties from the D-Day invasions and the Battle of the Bulge and was most active during its last year and a half before its dissolution on June 14th, 1945.
The Office of Academic affairs works behind the scenes with the president, vice presidents, deans, faculty and staff across the colleges to support university accreditation, institutional and strategic planning regarding education, and individual educational program development and approval process through SUNY and the New York Office of Education. The Office also supports academic policy development and revision, the measurement of student learning outcomes and evaluation of educational programs, honorary degrees, and various faculty awards.
Donald Smythe Childs (1888-1960) was one of the earliest radiologists in New York State and graduated from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1909. He interned at St. Joseph’s Hospital from 1908 to 1910 before becoming a physician at Waterloo in 1910. In 1914, he returned to SU to become a Professor of Radiology, a position he held until 1948. In addition, he was an Instructor and subsequently a Professor of Osteology at SU for 28 years. During World War I, he served in the Medical Corps as a Captain from 1917 to 1919. In 1915, he married Amy Murray Edwards, with whom he had two sons: Donald S. Childs Jr., who also became a renowned radiologist, and Eleaser Edwards Childs. He assisted with radiology at many local institutions, including St. Mary's Maternity Hospital, Marcy State Hospital, the Syracuse Free Dispensary, the Syracuse Psychopathic Hospital, St. Joseph's Hospital, Elmcrest Children’s Center, and the House of Providence. He was the secretary-treasurer of the Radiological Society of North America from 1931 until his death and the business manager of its scientific journal, Radiology. Among his many public service positions, he was most notably a Trustee of the American Board of Radiology from 1940 until 1958, Chancellor of the American College of Radiology beginning in 1949, chairman of the Section of Radiology of the American Medical Association in 1956 to 1957, President of the Syracuse Academy of Medicine, and President of the American Board of Radiology, which was the official examining and certifying body for his medical specialty. Dr. Childs was a member of the American Roentgen Ray Society, Century Club Syracuse, and Innominate Club Syracuse and a Fellow of the American College of Radiology. He was awarded the Gold Medal Award of the Radiological Society of North America in 1949 and died in 1960 at the age of 72.
Henry Darwin Didama (1823-1905) was born in Perryville on June 17, 1823. His father and grandfather, John and Simon Didama, came from Delft, Holland with the Holland Company to settle in Trenton, NY and both worked as doctors. Henry attended Cazenovia Seminary and was a teacher during the winter of 1840-1841. He began practicing medicine in the office of Doctor David A. Moore of Cazenovia and continued under Doctor Nelson A. Powers of Syracuse. He studied at the Geneva College of Medicine and the Albany Medical School, the latter of which he graduated from in 1846 at the age of 23. He then settled in Romulus, where he remained for 5 years and studied under Enos Smith Vail. At this time, he met and married Sarah Miller, the daughter of Honorable Sherman Miller. Henry came to Syracuse in 1851, and in 1874 he bought the Wescott homestead on South Salina Street and made that his office and home for the remainder of his life. The family had three children; Henry Darwin Jr., who died in infancy; Sherman, who died when a medical student; and Amelia, who married William M. Niven and completed a medical course at Syracuse and assisted her father, but died in 1893 from typhoid fever in Florida.
With the establishment of the Medical College in 1872, he was elected as Professor of Clinical Medicine, and in 1873, he was made Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine and Clinical Medicine, which he served as until his resignation in 1893. After the death of Dean Frederick Hyde in 1888, he was elected Dean of the College of Medicine and received the degree of LL.D. from Syracuse University that same year. In 1894, he was elected Trustee at Large of Syracuse University, which he served as until his death. In addition, he wrote under the nom de plume Amos Cottle about his observations of foreign customs and people in letters to the local press. He most notably served as president of the Onondaga County Medical Society, the Syracuse City Medical Society, the Central New York Medical Association, the Medical Society of the State of New York, the New York Medical Association, and the Syracuse Academy of Medicine, and Vice President of the American Medical Association before his death on October 4, 1905.
Born in Elmira Heights, New York, John H. Ferguson (1902-1978) received his undergraduate degree from Syracuse University and his M.D. from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1926. Shortly after his graduation, Ferguson was appointed as an instructor of Pathology in 1927, made Assistant Professor in 1929, Professor in 1942, and Chairman in 1950. He also taught courses in the Medical Jurisprudence Department until it was absorbed by the Department of Public Health and Preventative Medicine in 1954. In addition to his teaching contributions, Ferguson played key roles in the future of the institution. In 1933, he helped to plan and design the Basic Sciences Building. In the late 1940’s, he compiled a report for a State Committee, persuading them to transform the Syracuse University College of Medicine to what is now SUNY Upstate Medical University. He taught at SUNY Upstate Medical University until his retirement in 1968. In addition to his contributions to medical education, Ferguson was the Onondaga County Necrotomist from 1927-1950.
Seymour Fisher (1922-1996) was born on May 13, 1922 in Baltimore, MD. He earned his PhD in Psychology in 1948 at the University of Chicago. In 1961 he became a professor at SUNY Health Science Center in Syracuse, NY (now named SUNY Upstate Medical University) and taught in the College of Medicine for 34 years. He was a professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, and headed the psychology research program. While at SUNY Upstate Medical University he conducted several research studies on nurses with Rorschach ink blot tests. His research also included topics of psychology, pharmacology, body image, Freudian analysis, humor, and female sexuality; the last of which drew a large general audience. His research into psychoactive drugs scrutinized drug companies that released drugs (like anti-depressants) onto the market before having put them through rigorous, scientific testing. He also worked with colleagues around the country, including Dr. Sidney E. Cleveland, David Mendell, and Dr. Roger P. Greenberg (a colleague in Syracuse). Dr. Fisher wrote several books (19 in total published). He also published about 200 research articles.
His wife, Dr. Rhoda Fisher, was a clinical psychologist and had a private practice in child psychology in Manlius, NY. She and Seymour researched the psychology of humor and wrote at least two books together (Pretend the World is Funny and Forever: A Psychological Analysis of Comedians, Clowns, and Actors, 1982; and The Psychology of Adaptation to Absurdity: Tactics of Make-Believe, 1993). Their work put them into contact with comedians like Kaye Ballard, Sid Caesar, and Jackie Mason.
Dr. Fisher died of a heart attack on December 5, 1996 at the age of 74. He was living in Manlius, NY at the time.
Leo Eaton Gibson (1894-1966) was born in the town of Willet and attended Whitney Point High School before receiving his B.S. in 1917 and M.D. in 1920 from Syracuse University. His internship was at St. Josephs on Staten Island from 1919 to 1922, and his residency in urology was at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. During World War II, he served in the military as a surgeon for the US Public Health Service and completed postgraduate education at the Brady Urological Institute at John Hopkins. He married Pauline Remington, and they had two sons, Eaton and Peter. He was president of the Medical Society of the State of New York and Onondaga County Medical Society, a member of Alpha Kappa Kappa, and a consulting urologist at the Upstate Medical Center, St. Joseph's Hospital and Syracuse Memorial Hospital. From 1927 to 1954, he was a member of the Syracuse University College of Medicine faculty and a clinical professor emeritus until his death in 1966.
Dr. James B. Preston (1926-2004) was a renowned neurophysiologist. Dr. Preston attended Ohio Wesleyan University from 1944-1945. His education was interrupted by military service. He served in Korea from 1945-1947 as a member of the Army Signal Corps and then as a medic stationed on the 38th parallel. When he returned, he attended Ohio Wesleyan for another year and then enrolled at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine where he received his M.D. in 1952. He spent the next two years in a combined internship-research fellowship at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. In 1954 Dr. Preston was hired as an instructor at the SUNY Upstate Medical University, and in 1956 he was named an assistant professor at Upstate. In 1960 at the age of 34, he was promoted to a full professor and chairman of the Department of Physiology where he remained for 31 years before he retired in 1991. In 1992 he became a professor emeritus at the SUNY Upstate Medical University.
Dr. Preston’s scientific research centered on investigations into the neural basis of the control of movement. His contributions to neurophysiology are fundamental to our concepts of how the brain controls movement. Over the course of his career, he published over 40 research based articles in his field. His research was continuously funded by the National Institute of Health for over thirty-two years. Many of his graduate students and postdoctoral students went on to distinguished academic careers in the area of neural science. For over forty years, medical students benefited from his instruction. Preston served on numerous national and state committees including: Chairman, Physical and Molecular Biology Evaluation Conference-NIH, DRG (1968); Chairman, Physiology Training Committee-NIGMS,NIH (1971-1973); Chairman, Working Group on Pharmacology, National Advisory Committee on Multiple Sclerosis-USPHS (1973-1974); President, Association of Chairs of Departments of Physiology (1973-1974); Chairman, Subcommittee on Chemotherapeutic Agents, National Multiple Sclerosis Society (1975- 1980); Chairman, Sponsored Research Advisory Committee, Research Foundation, SUNY (1982-1986); Conference Chair, Winter Conference on Brain Research (1987-1988); Director, Winter Conference on Brain Research (1989-1991).
Barbara Anne Wiard Streeten (1925-2015) was an American ophthalmologist known for her research contributions on pseudoexfoliative disease of the lens, the protein composition of the zonule, and ocular finding in many genetic disorders. She was born in Derry, New Hampshire in 1925 and raised in Revere, Massachusetts, where she was valedictorian of Revere High School at the age of 16. In 1945, she received her A.B. (magna cum laude) at the age of 20 from Tufts University followed by her M.D. (cum laude) in 1950 from Tufts University Medical School. Tufts University awarded her the medical Alumni Association Prize in Physiology in 1947 and the Medical Alumni Association Prize in Pathology, Bacteriology, and Parasitology in 1948. She completed residencies in pathology at Boston City Hospital and in Ophthalmology at Wayne County Hospital and the University of Michigan followed by a fellowship in Ophthalmic Pathology at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary.
Dr. Streeten was an ophthalmology faculty member at the University of Michigan from 1956 to 1960, but moved to Syracuse in 1960 with her husband Dr. David H.P. Streeten, who was a prominent endocrinologist and faculty member at SUNY Upstate Medical University for 50 years. Dr. Streeten joined Upstate as an Ophthalmology and Pathology faculty member in 1964 and was Director of the Eye Pathology Laboratory from 1967 to 2008. She received her first NIH grant in 1975 for research on the structure of the ocular zonule entitled “The Fiber-Gel Structure of the Ocular Zonule” and was continuously funded for 27 years. She retired at the age of 83 after having authored more than 120 journal articles and book chapters, with 68 published abstracts. Her honors include the SUNY President’s Award for Excellence and Leadership in Research in 2000, the SUNY Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Scholarship and Creative Activities in 2005. She was also awarded the Zimmerman Medal in 1997, the highest honor in Ophthalmic Pathology.
There are few details available for Allen Gideon Tripp (1868-1912). He was born in Clay, New York on November 13, 1868 and primarily lived in Cicero. He began his studies at the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1896 and graduated in 1900. While at Syracuse University, he was the class president in 1898 and 1899 and was a member of the Iota Chapter of Alpha Kappa Kappa. He married Angie L. Overacre in June 1900 and died in 1912.
This collection contains the papers of the World War II 52nd General Hospital, which was affiliated with Syracuse University College of Medicine and stationed at Camp
Livingston, Louisiana and Kidderminster, England. There are five series in this collection.
Photographs: these materials include negatives and print photographs of the 52nd GH donated by various individuals. Almost every photograph has been digitized and can be viewed on the Archives and Special Collections METS database or on the New York Heritage and Digital Public Library of America websites.
Memorabilia: this series contains oversize certificate and poster memorabilia from the unit.
Printed Materials: these documents include printed materials about the unit, including newsletters, newspaper clippings, emails, transcriptions, and published maps and articles.
Subject Files: this series has various sub-series of individuals and events relating to the 52nd GH in a variety of formats, including photographs; writings, such as correspondence, notes, and diaries; ephemera that is loose and mounted in scrapbooks; audio-visual materials; and printed materials, such as publications, newsletters, photocopies of federal records, newspaper clippings, and extensive original documentation on the camp from Dr. Farr.
Audio-Visual Materials: these materials include various audio-visual materials from the 52nd GH, including CD, VHS, DVD, cassette, 78rpm vinyl, and 16mm film recordings.
Records in this collection were produced by the Office of Academic Affairs. There is currently one series on accreditation.
Accreditation: this series includes materials relating to LCME and Middle States studies conducted at Upstate Medical University from 1972 through 2011. Consists mostly of reports and meeting minutes. 
This collection contains the papers of Donald S. Childs, who graduated from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1909 and was a radiologist. There is one series in this collection.
Writings: this series contains two of Dr. Childs’ notebooks with notes, experiment observations, sketches, and tables from his academic career at Syracuse University College of Medicine.
This collection contains the papers of Henry Darwin Didama, who became a Professor of Clinical Medicine at the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1872 and Dean of the College of Medicine beginning in 1888. There are five series in this collection.
Writings: this series contains the original and typed transcription of Henry Darwin Didama’s diary entitled “Private Journal of the Affairs du Vie, 1842-1852.”
Printed materials: these documents include printed materials from and about Henry Darwin Didama from 1875 to 1906.
Photographs: these materials are portrait photographs of Henry Darwin Didama and correspondence from 1944 on the donation of two portrait photographs from R.W.S. Vail of Albany, the grandchild of Enos Smith Vail of Romulus.
Subject Files: this contains one folder with information on Henry Darwin Didama.
Memorabilia: these documents consist of certifications, membership, and diplomas.
This collection contains the papers of John H. Ferguson (1902-1978), who graduated from Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1926 and later taught at the university, chairing both the Pathology and Medical Jurisprudence departments. There are five series in this collection.
Chronological Calendar: This manuscript compiles a history of SUNY Upstate Medical University, from its origins as Geneva Medical College in 1834 and its assimilation into the State University of New York system in 1950. Chapters of the manuscript are largely based on departments (administration, libraries, secretaries, pathology, anatomy, biochemistry, family medicine, jurisprudence, etc.). Each department is then organized chronologically, highlighting chairmen, deans, and key administrative figures from the creation of the department until around 1968. Almost every figure listed and described by Ferguson is accompanied by a photograph. Individuals may appear in more than one chapter, as they were the head of multiple departments. Additions and revisions to selected chapters were added in the 1980s and early 2000s by unknown contributors.
History Report to the Committee to the Board of Trustees: This document argues the case for the State to purchase Syracuse University Medical College in order to establish their upstate medical college. Ferguson provides a narrative history of Syracuse University Medical College, including photographs of floor plans, the campus, and internal views of classrooms. He also provides information about the library, School of Public Health Nursing, costs and incomes, local hospitals, relationships to local industries (such as Bristol Laboratories), and the future of the College. The report is a total of 51 pages.
Subject files: This file includes newspaper clippings of Ferguson’s obituaries, a copy of his dedication in the 1965 Auricle, a copy of Ferguson’s curriculum vitae (circa 1950), and a letter from John H. Ferguson Jr.
Memorabilia: This file includes awards Ferguson received upon his retirement.
Photographs: There are sixteen black-and-white portrait photographs and eight negatives of John H. Ferguson, most likely his faculty portraits.
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Frederick Hyde, Henry Darwin Didama, Gaylord P. Clark, John L. Heffron, Herman G. Weiskotten, William R. Williard (only biography), Wilfred W. Westerfeld, Carlyle F. Jacobsen, Julius B. Richmond, Lewis W. Bluemle Jr., Richard P. Schmidt, George F. Reed, Donald C. Goodman, John B. Henry
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Abby Bond, Mary A. Barker, Louise Leonard, Lucy Pelton Faigle, Genevieve Mahan Rowlingson, Mary Burkhard Evans, Maxine King
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:James H. Abbott, Augustus J. Carroll, David A. Sinclair, Francis J. Wozniak, Joseph K. Hill, Kirby A. Vosburg, Davis G. Johnson, Donald A. Boulton, Walter Wiggins, Lee Walton, William A. Harris, Richard Muller, Stella Zimmer, Louis Georgianna, Nickolas Apgar, Joyce Berman Goldberg, Julia Hammock, Gary Bishop, Ellen Cook Jacobsen, Donald C. Samson, Albert G. Boeck, Anna Halsted, Betty N. Kisil, David N. Watts, William Mueller, Edward Toner, John Maines, Ward Mackey, Hobart Newton, Raymond McPhilmy, Jean Fancher, Richard Drayer, Thomas Ranger, Sam Martin
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph. Names appear in chronological order:Ruth Bielby, Clark Rumsey, Stanley E. Truelson, Irwin H. Pizner, Evelyn L. Hoey
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:John Towler, John Van Duyn, Gaylord P. Clark (only biography), Scott Owen, George M. Price, Harold D. Senior, Henry W. Stiles, Philip B. Armstrong, David G. Whitlock, Chester L. Yntema, Donald C. Goodman, Elinore J. Spring-Mills, Larry F. Lemanski
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Reverend John J. Brown, John Towler, William Manlius Smith, Charles A. Covell, George A. Hanford, Gustave M. Meyer, Ernest Noble Pattee, Robert K. Brewer, Wilfred W. Westerfeld, William R. Ruegamer, Anthony N. Martonosi (only biography), John Clint Elwood, Richard L. Cross
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Nelson Nivison, Reuben C. Hanchett, Horace D. Babcock, Lucien M. Underwood, Gaylord P. Clark, Frank P. Knowlton, Robert F. Pitts, Gordon K. Moe, James Preston
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Otis J. Burt, George R. Metcalf, William H. Dunlap, John L. Heffron, Reuben C. Hanchett, William A. Curtin, Henry B. Doust, Marion S. Dooley, Allan D. Bass, Alfred Farah, Jay Tepperman, Helen Tepperman, Irwin M. Weiner, Jose Jalife
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Leverett Dale Bristol, Oliver Wendell Holmes Mitchell, Orren D. Chapman, Justus F. Mueller, Paul F. Wehrle, George G. Holz, Robert M. Dougherty
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Nelson Nivison, A. Clifford Mercer, William H. May, Halbert S. Steensland, Herman G. Weiskotten, J. Howard Ferguson, Rolla B. Hill, Gerald B. Gordon (only photograph), Frederick R. Davey, W. Dewey Alsever, William A. Groat, Ellery G. Allen, Eugene L. Lozner, John B. Henry
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Hiram N. Eastman, Henry Darwin Didama, Henry L. Elsner, I. Harris Levy, Edward C. Reifenstein Sr., Richard H. Lyons, Paul A. Bunn, William J. Williams
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Harvey B. Wilbur, J.C. Carson, Richard H. Hutchings, Hersey G. Locke, Wardner D. Ayer, Eugene N. Boudreau, Philip E. Duffy, Giblert S. Ross, Carl J. Croslet, Burk Jubelt
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:J. Otis Burt, William H. Dunlap, Henry Clay Baum, Henry A. MacGruer, Lopo DeMello, Schuyler P. Richmond, Leon H. Griggs
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Nelson Nivison, Alfred Mercer, William H. Mills (only biography), Fred M. Meader, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Clealand A. Sargent, William A. Brumfield, Harry A. Feldman, Richard P. Oates
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Charles A. Covell, Alfred A. Mercer, Jacob J. Levy, Lee A. Hadley, Thomas E. Walsh, George M. Raus, Leo Jivoff
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Frederick Hyde, John Van Duyn, Nathan Jacobson, David M. Totman, Edward S. Van Duyn, Albert G. Swift, Arthur B. Raffl, Robert O. Gregg, C. Barber Mueller, Lloyd S. Rogers
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:John J. Buettner, Joseph Delmonico, Allen B. Dobkin, Howard L. Zauder, Enrico Camporesi
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Edward S. Van Duyn, Ralph R. Fitch, Clarence E. Coon, Richard S. Farr, Roscoe D. Severance, John B. Stevens, James B. Wray, David G. Murray, Hansen Yuan
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Alfred M. Wose, Thomas F. Laurie, Leo E. Gibson, Francis O. Harbach, Otto M. Lilien, Zahni N. Makhuli, James Keith Light
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Howard G. Case, Arthur E. Ecker, Stanley Batkin, Robert B. King, Charles Hodge
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Charles E. Rider, John Van Duyn, William H. Dunlap, Nathan Jacobson, Frank W. Marlow, Thomas H. Halsted, George S. Britten, Frederick J. O'Conner, Mortimer G. Brown, Gordon D. Hoople, Harry A. Rubenstein, David W. Brewer, Alfred W. Doust, George F. Reed, Richard Raymond Gacek
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:Charles E. Rider, John Van Duyn, Frank W. Marlow, David F. Gillette, Harold H. Joy, Franklin R. Webster, James L. McGraw, John Hoepner
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
Wilfred W. Porter, J. Otis Burt, William T. Plant, A. Clifford Mercer, Edward Judson Wynkoop, Brewster C. Doust, Tyree C. Wyatt, Julius B. Richmond, Sterling D. Garrard, Mary Louise [Voorhees], Frank Aram Oski, Warren Grupe
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
Wilfred W. Porter, Henry B. Allen, William D. Hinsdale, Albert S. Hotaling, Eugene W. Belknap, Henry W. Schoeneck, Robert E. L. Nesbitt, Edward C. Hughes, Aaron B. Miller, George B. Broad, Thomas P. Farmer, Nathan P. Sears, Chester E. Clark, Michael S. Baggish
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
Harvey B. Wilbur, J. C. Carson, Richard H. Hutchings, Hersey G. Locke, Wardner D. Ayer, Eugene N. Boudreau, Harry E. Steckel, Edward J. Stainbrook, Marc H. Hollender, David B. Robinson, Donald Oken, Sidney A. Orgel, Leslie Franklin Major
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
Charles A. Covell, A. Clifford Mercer, Clarence E. Coon, Donald S. Childs, Foster C. Rulison, Clayton H. Hale, Paul A. Riemenschneider, John G. McAfee, Stephen A. Kieffer
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
William T. Plant, J. Gilbert Justin, Martin A. Knapp, Ceylon H. Lewis, William S. Andrews, William Avery Groat, J. Howard Ferguson
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
John Herbert Morrison, G. Bruce Dearing, Mary Jane Brennan Schneider, Donald Charles Goodman (only biography)
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
John McCabe
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph and biography unless otherwise noted. Names appear in chronological order:
Francis S. Calvia, L. Thomas Wolff, John DeSimone, Macaran Baird
The following individuals are included in this folder with a photograph. Names appear in chronological order:
James S. Waldron
This collection documents the professional activities of Seymour Fisher during his employment at SUNY Upstate Medical University. It also includes personal correspondence, photo-copied journal articles on topics of research, articles and cartoon clippings, manuscripts, conference booklets, administrative documents, publishing documents, research information from some of his Rorschach ink blot tests, and other material. Items document professional and personal relationships with colleagues, the process of researching and publishing his writing, administrative information about courses and faculty at SUNY Health Science Center/SUNY Upstate Medical University, and raw research data. Topics include body image, psychology, pharmacology, sexuality, and humor. Medium is paper, including newsprint, book paper, and coated paper for printed publications; lined loose-leaf, graph paper, copy paper, and transfer paper. Format is mostly letter-size or smaller, typed or handwritten.
There are six series in this collection.
Administrative and Teaching Records: this series contains employment-related records, including a job evaluation form for Dr. Fisher, a faculty candidate's CV, photocopies of other's published material, course notes, and a memo. 1991-1996, undated.
Correspondence: this series contains personal and professional correspondence to and from Dr. Fisher. Primary contact of correspondence is Dr. Sidney Cleveland. 1980-1996.
Printed Materials: this series contains a subject file with biographical information and obituaries on Dr. Fisher. It also contains a book publishing agreement, conference proceedings from the First Annual Conference on Trauma, Loss and Dissociation: The Foundations of 21st Century Traumatology (02/16/1995-02/20/1995), clippings, and a proof copy of Body Image and Personality, by Seymour Fisher and Sidney E. Cleveland. 1958-1995.
Research: this series contains raw research data, test results, logs, and notes, primarily from projects labeled "Research Cruise: Future Topics", "Blots: Project 36: Nurses", and "Proj 143: Orig: Blots". 1983-1984, undated.
Writings by Dr. Fisher: this series contains reviews, published writings, and unpublished writings by Dr. Fisher. 1959-1995.
Writings by Others: this series contains manuscripts from Dr. Dan Egli, Dr. Marc Runco, Dr. Roland Moses, Dr. Richard Karmel, and Dr. Jill Reardon; as well as photocopied books and articles. 1994, undated.
This collection contains the papers of Leo E. Gibson, who graduated from Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1920 and was a urologist. There are four series in this collection.
Printed Materials: these documents were accumulated by Dr. Gibson on a variety of medical subjects primarily in the 1950s.
Subject Files: these materials include papers on the Medical Society of the State of New York, the Urologists Correspondence Club, and Dr. Gibson’s urology clippings and drafts of publications.
Memorabilia: Dr. Gibson's certificates, licenses, and diploma are in this series.
Photographs: this series contains glass lantern slides that relate to Dr. Gibson’s urology studies.
This collection contains the papers of James B. Preston, who was a Professor of Physiology at SUNY Upstate Medical University in Syracuse, NY. There are five series in this collection.
Subject Files: these documents include newspaper clippings, photographs, press releases, and newsletters from the 1950s to 1990s in addition to VHS and DVD recordings of the 2004 memorial ceremony for Dr. Preston. The folders with Dr. Preston’s notes include photocopies of scholarly publications with Dr. Preston’s handwritten notes and comments on the articles.
Photographs: these materials from the 1950s to 1990s contain group photographs of his department and academic organizations, 2 boxes of Polaroid slide mounts with research information, tables, and figures, and portrait photographs of Dr. Preston, including one photograph of him with Donald Kennedy, who was the commissioner of the FDA during the Carter Administration.
Printed Materials: this series has two folders with published articles that Dr. Preston contributed to or was featured in from 1956 and 1988.
Lectures: this series primarily contains Dr. Preston’s lecture materials from the 1960s to 1990s, which include slides, typed and manuscript notes and drafts of lectures, index cards with references, correspondence, and print publications with notes, figures, and images. The folders on the Carlyle F. Jacobsen lecture series from 1966 and the 1980s include correspondence, biographical information, newspaper clippings, press releases, publicity materials, print photographs, slides, notes, and photocopies of articles by Dr. Jacobsen.
Correspondence: these documents concern Dr. Preston’s career, research, and publications from the 1950s to 1980s. Some related materials are included with the letters, such as newsletters, newspaper clippings, reports, and lecture notes.
This collection contains the personal papers of Barbara W. Streeten that relate to her research and career as a Professor of Ophthalmology and Pathology at SUNY Upstate Medical University. There are four series in this collection.
Writings: these papers contain Dr. Streeten's publications, research materials for publications, and corresponding materials for publications, including notes, forms, correspondence, and photographs from the late 1970s to 2000s.
Subject Files: these records contain Dr. Streeten's research materials from the late 1970s to 1990s. These were primarily for publications, but there are also materials for unpublished papers, such as manuscript drafts and notes, correspondence, and photographs.
Photographs: these materials consist of research photographs from the 1980s and 1990s, including ones reproduced in publications, and print photographs of Dr. Streeten from 1976.
Posters: this series consists of digital photographs of Dr. Streeten's scientific posters that primarily were displayed at conferences before the research information was published.
This collection contains the papers of Allen G. Tripp, who graduated from the Syracuse University College of Medicine in 1900. There are two series in this collection.
Writings: this series contains Dr. Tripp’s notebooks, notes, and school materials from his academic career at Syracuse University College of Medicine.
Memorabilia: these documents include a diploma, membership certificate, and medical license.
