The items in this collection consist of Manned Spacecraft Center/Johnson Space Center memorabilia from Eggers' personal collection from his time working as a contractor for General Dynamics Corp. in the early 1960s.
Personal papers documenting Maxime Faget's careers during his lifetime. The materials mostly cover his career in the US Navy, in NACA, and NASA spanning 53 years.
The City of Houston Collection consists of official correspondence and documents relating to the City of Houston from 1881-1900.
The bulk of this collection dates from the years 1943 through 1945. The collection mainly contains black and white photographs taken by Clell Thorpe, as well as some 4x5" negatives, one letter, one manuscript, and some miscellaneous items.
The Nassau Bay Garden Club collection documents the organizational records of the Nassau Bay Garden Club from 1964-2000.
In 1982 Dr. Irvin Borish assumed the Benedict Professorship of Optometric Practice at the University of Houston. The University of Houston College of Optometry established the Irvin M. Borish Chair in Optometric Practice in 1987. This endowed chair carries more than one million dollars of support. The papers of Dr. Irvin Borish contain manuscripts, patents, awards and notices, conference proceedings, print items, correspondence, photographs, as well as audio and video recordings.
The Neuman Library, 1974-2013 Records document the careers and initiatives of Francis Weeks and Gay Carter who were librarians at the University of Houston-Clear Lake Neuman Library.
Although the Buffalo Bayou had been used for boat navigation in Houston as early as 1839, the Houston Ship Channel was established in 1914. In 1841, the mayor of Houston established the Port of Houston, which was supported by the city and later by the state of Texas. In 1880, Congressional legislation was introduced which began the involvement of the federal government in the Ship Channel. There are 66 items in the collection, dating from 1926-1964. Included is a typed manuscript history of the Port of Houston and Buffalo Bayou, a typed version of the ordinance establishing the Port of Houston, and photos documenting the history of the Port of Houston .
<abstract label="Abstract" encodinganalog="520$a">From 1958 until 1994 the Petroleum Institute, an annual educational seminar, was held at the University of Houston. The Institute was designed to inform participants about all aspects of the petroleum industry. These records consists of brochures, evaluation results, photographs, correspondence, and program booklets.
The Comiculture Collection contains ephemera from UHCL Comiculture event hosted by the University of Houston-Clear Lake from 2009-2013
This collection is composed entirely of U. S. Navy recruiting literature from 1941-1949. Included are booklets, pamphlets, broadsides, posters, promotional materials and some miscellaneous response cards.The collection was donated to the University of Houston Libraries by Floyd Glass, a Houston resident, book collector, and retired Naval officer.
The Nassau Bay Garden Club collection documents the organizational records of the Nassau Bay Garden Club from 1964-2000.
The African American Studies Program was established during the late 1960s and offers courses that focus on the history and culture of African Americans and the contributions that people of African descent have made to civilization. Materials include annual reports, brochures, catalogs, development plans, grant proposals, and reports to the community and date from 1990 to 2001, with one item from 1971.
Dr. Tom Battin was considered to be a pioneer in educational television. He taught at the University of Houston for 21 years and was Professor Emeritus at the UH School of Communication. This collection contains correspondence, articles, lecture notes, scrapbooks, photographs, scripts, and films dating from 1936 to 1976.
The John M. Eggleston Papers document with reports, notes, and memorandum documenting NACA and NASA projects for which Eggleston was responsible or participated from 1946-1987.
As one of a number of all-male singing organizations which formed in the German communities of Texas during the last half of the 19th century, The Houston Saengerbund was founded in 1883, as an organization through which German immigrants in Houston could join with their countrymen to sing songs in the German language. The Houston Saengerbund is still in existence more than one hundred years after its founding, and the Saengerbund and Damenchor continues to perform at Houston-area public events.This collection contains the records of the Houston Saengerbund from the years 1874 to 1985.
Timber Cove Recreation Association Records covers the association's annual reports, minutes, budgets, membership, and items related to pool construction and maintenance from 1962 to 2006.
Born to a prominent British family in 1894, Aldous Huxley's career as a writer began in the 1920s with a sequence of novels and short story collections which lampooned the pretensions of post-World War I society. Interested in a variety of literary forms, Huxley also published books of essays, travel observations, and poetry. His works include Brave New World, Point Counter Point, The Doors of Perception, as well as short stories, essays, plays, literary criticism and Hollywood screenplays. This collection contains signed letters and manuscripts written by Aldous Huxley.
The College of Arts and Sciences, created in 1942, consisted of three divisions: the Division of Cultural Arts, the Division of Sciences, and the Division of Social Sciences. The College of Arts and Sciences continued as the central instructional unit of the University of Houston until 1975 when it was divided into three colleges: the College of Humanities and Fine Arts, the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, and the College of Social Sciences. This collection consists of records relating to all aspects of the College of Arts and Sciences. Materials date from 1937 to 1973, with the bulk dating from 1963 to 1973. Materials include correspondence, reports, forms, reading files, minutes, and a large variety of other reference and background items relating to the College of Arts and Sciences and its various departments and divisions.
Scientist in Residence Program Records covers the collection and donations of educational materials by Dr. Ronald Pastrana to Mill Road Intermediate School from 2006-2008.
The Col. James Morgan Papers Collection consists of personal, business, and military correspondence, as well as various indenture and tenant documents, military orders, receipts, and folk remedies. When available, hand written transcriptions are filed behind the original documents. Manuscripts date from 1836 to 1859, with the bulk of the collection dating from the 1830s. The collection comprises 1 manuscript box with 43 individual items.
On December 7, 1976 President Philip G. Hoffman announced the 50th Anniversary of the University, with events to run throughout 1977. This collection consists of documents relating to the various events of the celebration and the committee overseeing the events. Materials include agendas, correspondence, minutes, brochures, forms, calendars, commemorative newspaper articles, and press clippings dating primarily from 1976 and 1977.
The Harold J. McMann Logbook Collection is of logbooks covering four decades (1961-2002) reporting McMann's NASA career at the Extravehicular Activities (EVA) Office. The collection covers the activities of the Crew Systems Division at the Lane-Wells Building (MSC site 4).
The M.L. Calk collection consists of eight letters that M.L. Calk wrote while he served with the 23rd Alabama Volunteer Infantry Regiment. M.L. Calk served with the 23rd Alabama Volunteer Infantry Regiment in both the Kentucky (September - October 1862) and Vicksburg (December 1862 - July 1863) Campaigns.
The Hershell Howard Nixon And Joan Lowery Nixon Papers, 1974-1978 is a collection of general correspondence, drafts, galley proofs, a book, and newspaper clippings from Joan Lowery Nixon's writing career and Hershell Howard Nixon's work as an exploration petroleum geologist and memberships in the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the American Professional Geological Scientists, the Houston Geological Society, the West Texas Geological Society, and the Rocky Mountain Association of Geologists
Dr. Patrick James Nicholson the author of In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston came to the University of Houston as a lecturer in Management in 1951. In 1956 he became Executive Director of Development and Assistant to the President and he was named Vice President of University Development in 1957, a position he maintained until his retirement in August of 1981. This collection includes correspondence, brochures, reports and newspaper articles concerning many university-related topics as well as a small amount of personal material.
The Mary Blount Christian Papers, 1970-1978 (#1990-0008), consist of materials relevant to the writing career of Blount, a children's book author.
The University of Houston was founded in 1927 as the Houston Junior College, operated by the Houston Independent School District. In 1934, the school was renamed the University of Houston and became a four-year college. The President's Office Records include correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, invitations, and related material dating from 1927-1981 that were received or created by the President of the University of Houston.
Clippings, correspondence, and other documents in files relating to university personnel, the Houston Shaw Festival, and the Bridges Preprimary Laboratory School compiled by the UHCL Communications Office of the University of Houston Clear Lake.
This small collection is comprised entirely of clippings and publications related to the history of the Port of Houston. It was given to the library by William A. Bernrieder, Executive Secretary of the Cruiser Houston Committee, in 1979.
John R. Garman Papers, 1967-1998 document John Garman's career at NASA, OAO Corporation, and the years after his retirement as software engineering and information technology consultant.
W.D. Lowther was a member of Company D, 2nd Texas Brigade, 17th Consolidated Regiment in the Confederate Army. The Lowther collection consists of 13 fetters from dated from June, 1863 through May of 1864.
This collection contains material pertaining to the university and government-sponsored office for the support and advising of veteran students during the 1940s and 1950s. The office provided assistance in application for admission to the university and obtaining compensation through the GI Bill. A special housing bureau helped veterans and their families locate places to live. Materials include budgets, correspondence, and UH Veteran's registration packets dating from 1944-1958.
The 35 items in the Winfield Scott collection document aspects of the life, military service and political career of General Scott from 1831 to 1866. The items include letters, general orders, legislative ordinance, maps, sheet music, envelopes, several printed engravings and a printed mezzotint. A letter addressed to Elisa Wyse from Lieutenant John Wyse, with whom General Scott corresponds, also is included.
Veteran's Village was a collection of converted navy barracks and trailers, which formed a nucleus of ex-servicemen's housing. The Veteran's Village became a community in itself, complete with a constitution, governing council, regular newsletter, and nursery school. This collection contains material dealing with the organization of the Veteran's Council, the UH Veteran's Club, newsletters as well as announcements, petitions, and press releases.
As an assistant to Houston mayor Oscar Holcombe, William A. Bernrieder spearheaded a successful local drive to have a Navy heavy cruiser named for the City of Houston. He supported the USS Houston (CA-30) during her years of service as a member of the Cruiser Houston Committee, and following the ship's sinking, continued to memorialize the ship and interact with surviving crew members. This collection consists primarily of materials related to the campaign to have a ship named for the city of Houston, and the history of the USS Houston (CA-30). Additional materials are related to the 1936 visit to Houston of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Cheryl Crawford worked as a theatre producer for five decades, primarily on Broadway, producing musicals that included Brigadoon, Porgy and Bess, and Yentl, and four Tennessee Williams plays. She was also a founding member of both the Group Theatre and the Actors Studio. Her collection includes correspondence, production materials, scripts, programs, playbills, audio tapes, posters, and sound recordings, as well as her personal collection of sheet music.
Dr. David Ashley White is currently the Director of the Moores School of Music at the University of Houston, where he is also professor of composition and theory. This collection consists of published and manuscript scores, programs, correspondence, audio-visual materials, and other items relating to his career as both a composer and music instructor.
William Wilberforce Edgerton served as a private with the 107th New York Volunteers during the American Civil War, participating in the battles of Antietam, Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg. He enlisted in 1862 and was honorably discharged on June 18, 1865. The collection consists primarily of correspondence from Edgerton to his mother, brother, and sisters.
Ima Hogg, daughter of Texas Governor James Hogg, helped found the Houston Symphony Orchestra in 1913, and became president of the Houston Symphony Society in 1917. This collection contains materials, primarily programs, that she collected in relation to cultural events which she attended in Houston, various American cities, and abroad. The development of the Houston Symphony is well-represented through programs and newspaper clippings.
Professor and author Bruce Kellner met the Houston-based poet Vassar Miller in 1974. This collection includes correspondence from Miller to Kellner, poems by Vassar Miller, critical essays about Vassar Miller, and a typescript of Bruce Kellner's play Swimming on Concrete
The Fritz Leiber Papers contains correspondence, notes, manuscripts, typescripts, publications and tearsheets, diaries and biographical materials, financial, legal and medical records, photographs, illustrations, convention materials, and miscellaneous materials. Additional oversize art/illustration materials and ephemera such as weaponry, sculpture, and awards are housed separately. The materials date from the 1930s to the 1980s. They are housed in 60 manuscripts boxes, 5 storage boxes, and 3 oversized boxes.
Houstonian Vassar Miller published ten volumes of poetry over the course of a literary career which spanned almost forty years, and was twice named poet laureate of Texas. The collection includes correspondence, manuscripts and typescripts of her poems, plays, and short stories, and materials pertaining to the editing and publication of the anthology Despite This Flesh.
During Tatiana Semenova's long career as a ballet dancer and teacher, she danced with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and the Paris Opera Ballet, led the American Youth Ballet in Houston, served as Director of the Houston Ballet Academy, and formed the Ballet of Houston. Her collection includes scrapbooks, photograph, programs, and personal materials.
The original order of the Professor Richard Jonas Papers has been maintained where possible. The collection includes limited correspondence, brochures and directories that relate to health, welfare and various community-related agencies. Most of the materials in the collection date from 1934 to 1978 with the majority dating from the 1950s. Items in the collection relating to the university include the Guidance Office, job evaluation manual, the library, the proposed College of Philosophy and Religion and U.H. veterans. The collection also includes a small portion of personal correspondence, which may provide background information and perspective to the researcher.
This 76-item collection mainly consists of letters written to and from Colonel Israel Shreve between the years of 1776 and 1793, with the bulk of the correspondence taking place between the years 1777 and 1780. Most of the correspondence is between Shreve and other officers in George Washington's Continental Army, and was written while Shreve was Colonel of the Second Regiment of New Jersey during the Revolutionary War. The collection is divided into two series, one of the Colonel Israel Shreve Correspondence, and one of Miscellaneous materials, including other correspondence.
This collection is composed of 46 items including letters, articles, and broadsides, which document various aspects of Austin's life.
The Ruth Pennybacker Collection consists of the teaching aids she used in class, photocopies of plays, news clippings, and programmes. Included in the collection is a scrapbook crafted in 1967 by her students, colleagues, and friends as a tribute to Miss Pennybacker.
The Cunningham Papers are divided into 9 series and 10 boxes making up approximately 9 linear feet spanning the years 1914 to 1964. The papers include correspondence, press releases, news clippings, programs, bulletins, speeches, expense accounts, campaign lists, strategic plans and organizational materials.
Forms part of the University Archives.
George M. Fuermann amassed this extensive collection of Texas and Houston historical materials during the period from 1950 - 1971. During this time he wrote a regular column, "Post Cards," on local history for the Houston Post and also authored ten volumes on the subject. The collection also includes much of George Fuermann's correspondence and manuscript material.
The Collection contains materials related to the book, A College Forum, edited by Joseph Doggett, Everett Gillis, and Rosa Bludworth, published by The Odyssey Press in 1963. In the Preface, the editors' arrived at what they considered a special design for their work, seeing a twofold need: "the need of the student for readings that will stimulate his own expression; the need of the instructor for a text that is adaptable to either a subject matter or a types of approach."
The Galveston Hurricane Photograph collection comes from a scrapbook of pictures taken by Rex Dunbar Frazier, a Stone & Webster Engineering representative called in to collect storm damage data and photographs.
The U.H. Statistics 1947-1970 contains various reports issued by the university. Some of the topics of these reports include Teacher Load Reports, New Students, Statistics, Coordinating Board Reports, and Grade Distribution Reports.
The University of Houston Chapter of the American Association of University Professors Records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of documents directly related to the organization including the AAUP Constitution, minutes, bank statements, letters, correspondence, membership lists, and newsletters. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Houston pianist Bessie Alva Griffiths studied piano with local philanthropist Ima Hogg before going on to give recitals and to teach piano in her home. Griffith's papers include personal photographs, some programs and other materials related to her career, and a small amount of memorabilia.
Documentation of the career of Texas journalist and prose writer, Leon Hale. Central to this career, since 1956, is his work as a regular "roving Texas" columnist and chronicler for the Houston Post and Houston Chronicle.
The Professor Joseph S. Werlin Papers contain extensive newspaper and magazine articles relating to international issues of interest to Dr. Werlin. Topics include, but are not limited to, politics, racism, nationalism, agriculture, birth control, and many others. Most of the materials date from the 1940s and 1950s, there is also a limited amount of personal material, including correspondence and photographs, in the collection.
The Professor John Q. Anderson Papers contain extensive materials including letters from former students, a diary, transcripts and other materials relating to American folk beliefs, medicine, and folksongs along with newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, notes and many other items.
Dr. Louis Kestenberg taught German at the University of Houston from 1933 until 1974. The collection contains files related to Kestenburg's teaching and activities at the University of Houston as well as his academic interests.
These 43 documents are all linked to Sam Houston or his family. The bulk of them bear his signature.
This collection contains 203 items and includes items dated from 1858 to 1900. The bulk of the items are dated between 1869 and 1881. The collection consists for the most part of correspondence, with some legal documents and tax papers.
The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, is a statutory board appointed by the Governor. It is responsible for statewide planning and policy-making to assure quality and efficiency in Texas higher education. The collection consists of Audit Reports, Correspondence, Board Minutes, Proposals, Reports, Rules and Regulations, Resolutions, and Statements.
University of Houston W.W. II Clippings contains newspaper articles that mostly relate to the University of Houston during the years 1939-1944.
The George Kirksey Papers contain clippings, manuscripts, some correspondence, scrapbooks, and numerous photographs. Materials are dated between 1910 and 1971. The collection comprises 18 manuscript boxes and has 3,363 items.
The Office of University Relations along with the Office of Development comprises the Division of University Advancement, which works to advance the institution both externally and internally. The Office of University Relations supports the university through the offices of internal and external communications, publications, and marketing. The Office of External Communications generates communications pieces, such as news releases to the media, and responses to media inquiries on behalf of the university. The collection dates from 1948-1997 with most of the materials dating from 1977 to 1997.
Mr. Romansky was a native Houstonian who practiced law. This set of papers documents his philanthropy and tremendous civic contribution to the contemporary art scene in Houston. Included also, is evidence of the social and civic contributions of his Uncle Thomas Flaxman.
The University of Houston conducts a self-study in accordance with the requirements of the Commission on Colleges and the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Traditionally they take place over a two year period and involve a broad cross-section of faculty, staff, and administration of the University. These studies are comprehensive and analytical in nature with the goal of identifying both the strengths and weaknesses of the university and to make recommendations to improve the performance of the institution. The materials in this collection are arranged chronologically.
Most of the documents in the collection bear the names or the signatures of individuals who fought in the battle or were significant to the history of the Republic of Texas.
This set of 21 photographs was taken by an unknown individual between April 16 & 21 - immediately after the 1947 explosion in Texas City. At some point the photos were taken from a small album. We have the notes concerning each photo made on the facing album pages but no additional information. Please see the "Historical Note," above, for more information about the deadly explosion.
Donald Barthelme, Sr. was a prominent Houston architect and professor at the University of Houston and Rice University. The collection contains his architectural drawings, papers, photographs, and other materials.
In 1988, Heart's Invention: On the Poetry of Vassar Millerwas published as volume 5 in the American Poets Profile Series by Ford-Brown & Co. The collection consists of materials related to the publication of the book, including correspondence, typescript drafts, and galley proofs.
The heavy cruiser USS Houston(CA-30) was named for the city and port of Houston. On March 1, 1942, the Houstonwas sunk by the Japanese in Sunda Strait, and her surviving crew members were taken prisoner of war. The collection contains materials in a wide variety of formats that document the history of the ship and her crew.
This series includes articles, an artists' book, essays, a libretto, poetry, notes, notebooks and her UH thesis Psychic Kissing, which evolved into the novel The Lord's Motel. Items, both published and unpublished, are in alphabetical order by format and then by title.
Performing arts programs, ticket stubs, and clipped reviews collected by Mr. Weinberger from 1947 through 2001. The programs reflect a variety of performance types and venues.
Writer Donald Barthelme founded the journal Forum in 1956 while working at the University of Houston, and served as editor until 1960. This quarterly journal featured articles on a wide range of topics including philosophy, literary criticism, economics, anthropology, psychology, biology, mathematics, architecture, film, music, and theater. The collection contains three manuscript boxes of materials related to Barthelme's tenure as editor of Forum .
Kenneth Patchen was a pioneer in avant-garde poetry, the picture poem, and poetry jazz. The collection contains correspondence, photographs, publicity and promotional materials, books, picture-poems, sound recordings, newspaper clippings and miscellaneous items.
Jan de Hartog (1914-2002) was a Dutch born author and playwright. The Jan de Hartog Papers consist of manuscript material, correspondence, scrapbooks, photos and other material documenting De Hartog's life and career. The papers are divided into three series: Works, The Hospital Materials, and Career.
Three letters from Paul Bowles, written from Tangier, Morrocco to Stroker Magazine publisher Irving Stettner, 1983-1984.
Bacon, a skilled worker, is allowed to enter Cuba through Havana.
Writer Beverly Lowry was a professor at University of Houston Creative Writing Program from 1976 until 1981. This collection includes typescript manuscript drafts of the novels Come Back, Lolly Ray, Emma Blue, and Daddy's Girl as well as correspondence received by Beverly Lowry from her agent and her editor. The Beverly Lowry Collection also includes galley proofs and page proofs for the three novels.
Letters from John Updike addressed to Carla Cooper, Executive Director of University Relations, and David Farmer, Head of Special Collections, regarding the author's visit to the University of Houston on March 20, 1985 as part of the University of Houston's 1984-85 Writers in Society Seriesand an excerpt signed by the author from his first novel The Poorhouse Fair. The remainder of the collection consists of letters from Updike to the University of Houston written after his visit.
A philosophy professor at the University of Houston and writer, Leiber has produced both scholarly and fiction works dealing with philosophy, psychology, linguistics, and cognitive science. The bulk of the material in this collection is typescript materials of The Sword and the Eye, The Sword and the Tower, Beyond Gravity, Beyond Humanity, and Tit for Tat.
Letter from Charles Bukowski, written from Los Angeles, CA to John [Martin]. March 12, 1974. Describes drinking and gambling.
(Francis) Warren Roberts has had an active publishing career, focusing a great deal of his time and effort on editing the works of D. H. Lawrence. He has also published additional works on D. H. Lawrence. The majority of the collection relate to activities of the Grolier Club, of which Roberts is a member, and publications for D. H. Lawrence works, symposia, and related activities. Among the D. H. Lawrence materials are issues of several newsletters, including D. H. Lawrence News and Notes, Lawrence Country News, and the Newsletter of the D.H. Lawrence Society of North America.
Joseph Stephen Cullinan founded the Texas Company and was a key figure in the commerical and cultural history of Houston in the early 20th century. This collection contains correspondence, records and other materials relating to Cullinan's business ventures, family life, and community involvement.
This collection consists of five letters from Sir Edwin Arnold to Mr. William Yates Thompson dating from 1887-1896. Letters discuss writing and travel.
John Lehmann was a poet, autobiographer, and one of the foremost literary editors of the twentieth century. This collection contains signed manuscripts, typescripts and galley proofs for two books: Poets of the First World War and Three Literary Friendships: Byron and Shelley, Rimbaud and Verlaine, Robert Frost and Edward Thomas. Also included in the collection are book reviews written for the London Sunday Telegraph, an essay for the Dictionary of National Biography, and a draft of a birthday poem for Roy Fuller.
Donald Barthelme was an experimental short story writer and novelist who contributed frequently to The New Yorker magazine in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. He remains best known for his classic collection Sixty Stories. Barthelme served as director of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston for many years. The collection contains typescript drafts, galley proofs, and page proofs of Barthelme's work, correspondence with fellow writers, and other materials related to Barthelme's writing and teaching career.
Maxine Mesinger was a social columnist for the Houston Chronicle from the years 1965 to 2000. The collection contains clippings of Mesinger's work for the paper as well as photographs, correspondence, memorabilia and audiotapes.
Letter from artist and writer Paul Alexander Bartlett, written from Tucson, Arizona to Chicago philanthropist Anita McCormick Blaine. June 11, 1933. Request for support in writing education.
Letter from Marcel Breuer, written from New York City to University of Houston Professor of Architecture Howard Barnstone. October 12, 1971. Regards letter from Barnstone asking for support in Hugo V. Neuhaus Jr.'s nomination to the AIA College of Fellows.
Letter from Senator Tom Connally, then chair of the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, to G.V. Brindley of Temple, Texas. Regarding the case of a missing serviceman, Lieutenant Lloyd L. Withers.
Letter from William Brumbelow, written from Chattanooga, Tennessee to his wife, location unknown. August 10, 1863. Describes war activity and family matters.
Scrapbooks contain writings by Dudley, correspondence, maps, photographs, photostatic copies, mementos and artifacts.
The H. David Kaplan Performing Arts Collection contains correspondence, publicity photographs, snapshots, slides, programs, various arts publications, autographs, ticket stubs, clippings, posters, showcards, and artwork. The collection is derived from the personal collection of H. David Kaplan.
A vast number of books, monographs and reference works on physics, mathematics, philosophy and history of science compose the collection. There are thousands of reprints of original papers autographed by their authors. The manuscripts of hundreds of published and unpublished books, papers, and lectures from physicists, mathematicians, philosophers, and literati are in the collection.
This collection consists of published short stories, typescript drafts, notes, theater programs, photographs, and clippings associated with Karchmer's plays, and personal correspondence.
Paul E. Purser was Special Assistant to the Director of Project Mercury, which developed into the Manned Spacecraft Center, the precursor to Johnson Space Center. In 1968, he served as Special Assistant to the President, University of Houston, where he advised the development of the University of Houston, Clear Lake. The papers consist of typescripts, page proofs and other materials related to the work "Manned Spacecraft", reports and articles, as well as Purser's files of clippings and research materials.
This collection contains the papers of Linda May, a Houston feminist activist who coordinated numerous national and global women's conferences and represented the American Jewish Coalition at the 1985 and 1995 United Nations' NGO Conference on Women. The series are arranged by organizational or institutional affiliation, and each contains photos, correspondence, press clippings, and literature. Linda May also has a book collection with Special Collections. For separated books, see Separated Materials note.
The majority of this collection contains documentation and notes pertaining to the creation of the short documentary film The Living Tree. Other items include film scripts, periodicals and ephemera from her film career.
This collection contains research materials, notes and correspondence related to the writing of The Rough Road to Justice: The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas. The book was commissioned by the State Bar of Texas Committee for Women in the Profession in 2003 under the leadership of Ellen Elkins Grimes and funded in part by a grant from the State Bar Association as well as other donors. Materials are arranged by function, with each series referring to a type of document. Materials are arranged by subject within each series.
This collection includes photos of Rose Club events, yearbooks that catalog membership, secretarial records and correspondence, and several scrapbooks. The majority of the materials are arranged chronologically and in the order they were received from donors.
This collection contains materials related to the establishment of the Auxiliary fundraising board of the Houston Center for Hearing and Speech, formerly known as the Houston School for Deaf Children. Press clippings, school newsletters, copies of speeches, and gala and meeting invitations are all included.
This collection contains research and draft materials from Claudia’s book and journalist work such as notes, editors’ commentary, final publications, promotional materials, and more. Claudia’s journals written during the drafting of her book are also included.
This collection contains materials related to Marcella Perry's work as a banker and politician between 1945 and 1985. The contents are broken up into two series: News, Events, and Correspondence; and Photos, Scanned Documents, and Scrapbooks. The sequencing is chronological and maintains the original structure created by Marcella and her family as closely as possible.
This collection contains items created between 1959 and 2013 related to the Texas Society of Professional Engineers (TSPE) and their Auxiliary, with a concentration on the Houston branch. The materials are broken up into series and organized chronologically within those series, with particular attention given to the original organization of the materials. There are meeting minutes, president’s records, relevant publications, and other miscellanea.
This collection is predominantly comprised of documents related to Betty Jukes’ nearly fifty years as an event planner, philanthropist, and volunteer in Houston. Organizations of note that Mrs. Jukes was involved with include the Houston Junior Woman’s Club, The Woman’s Club of Houston, the Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh Fund, and more. Spanning the years of 1967 through 2014, this collection also includes various awards and ephemera that Betty Jukes received throughout her career, and many interesting letters of correspondence between Mrs. Jukes and persons of note such as Lady Bird Johnson and Ima Hogg. Items are filed according to organizational affiliation and year.
This collection is housed in 45 boxes and organized into 12 series entitled: Buffalo Bayou Partnership, Market Square Park Project, Art Lies(the magazine), good (the book), Blaffer Gallery, Friends of Integrative Medicine, Uncommon Cents, News clippings, photographs, A/V Materials, and Ephemera/Index Cards. Materials within this collection have been arranged topically and therein in chronological order.
This collection includes the photographs, publications, and ephemera belonging to the North America Taiwanese Women’s Association. Materials are arranged topically and then chronologically, whenever possible. The series included are: Photo Albums/Scrapbooks, Publications, and Ephemera. The bulk of the materials are written primarily in Taiwanese except for the cookbooks which also include the English translation of the text.
This collection consists of the research materials of Drs. Judith McArthur and Harold Smith. Included are copies of materials held at other institutions as well as the authors’ notes. The collection is divided into six series: Minnie Fisher Cunningham, People, Conventions/Conferences, Organizations/Committees, Issues, and Photographic Material. All materials relate to Minnie and her various efforts across differing fields of interest. The bulk of the papers consist of correspondence between Minnie and individuals and organizations. The series is organized thematically and alphabetically.
This collection includes materials related to the UH Women’s Resource Center. The collection is broken into four series: General Information, Advertisements, Organizations and Printed Materials.
This collection includes materials related to the University Commission on Women (UCW). The majority of the materials included in the collection revolve around the governance and operation of the organization with a large series being dedicated to the mentoring program. The collection consists of six series: Governance, Meetings, Mentoring Program, Reports, Research, and General Information.
This collection includes articles written by Karkabi, correspondence, notes and research materials. The collection is divided into ten series: Personal, Articles, Correspondence, Appointment Books, Houston Chronicle, Notes, Multi-Media, Publications, Research, and Ephemera. All series are arranged topically and chronologically.
The collection is primarily concerned with the River Oaks Area Democratic Women, though it also contains material for both Democrat and Republican political candidates. Material in the collection includes correspondence, business and financial records, photographs, and the organization’s publication, Register. The collection is divided into six series: Governance, ROADwomen Register, Events and Programs, Organizations, Campaign Materials, and Various Materials. All series are arranged topically and chronologically except for Organizations and Campaign Material, which are organized alphabetically by name group or candidate.
This collection includes speeches, written works, as well as DVDs and photo CDs that document civic and professional life of Andrea White, former First Lady of Houston, housed in one box and comprised of three series.
The Patricia R. Cole and Nancy J. Flanakin National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence Records documents the organization’s work in providing training and consultation to organizations interested in the prevention of domestic and sexual violence. The collection includes correspondence, legal and legal style documentation, financial documents, printed materials, creative works, clippings, transparencies, forms, publications, posters, CDs, a VHS tape, note cards, handwritten notes, and ephemera created and maintained by The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence (NCDSV). Because all records had been previously transferred from the organization to create a reference library at UT Austin, it was not possible to maintain original order. Additionally, the files of published literature in the field of domestic violence were removed as this material was deemed not an organic part of the organization's documentation. Where possible, folder contents were kept intact.
The collection is primarily concerned with the Society of Women Engineers- Houston Area Section, though it also contains material from the regional and national levels of the organization. Material in the collection includes correspondence, business and financial records, photographs, and publications of the organization. The collection is divided into eleven series: Correspondence, Financial Documents, Organizational Governance, Meeting Minutes, Society of Women Engineers Publications, Printed Materials, Society of Women Engineers Regional and National Conference Materials, Retreats and Workshops, National Materials and Programs, Audio-visual and Mixed Media, and Various. All series are arranged topically and chronologically.
This collection is comprised of one box and includes newsletters and correspondence from the Harris County Women’s Political Caucus and the Texas and National Women’s Political Caucuses, brochures, convention related documents and histories and bylaws of the organizations. It also includes a few issues of the Women’s Political Times, a publication of the National Women’s Political Caucus. Materials are arranged regionally, and then by topic within each regional series.
This collection includes the records, correspondence, written works, articles, and photographs that document the life of Toby Myers as a worker in the Battered Women’s Movement. The thirteen series span from 1972 to 2010.
This collection is comprised of 12 boxes and 17 linear feet and documents the evolution of the Maternal Health Center of Houston into the Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas branch. Material in the collection is dated from 1936 until 2004. The collection contains historical information about the origins of the Planned Parenthood of Southeast Texas and the Maternal Health Center as well as the national birth control movement and Planned Parenthood Federation.
This collection includes the records, written works, collected writings, and photographs that document the development of the Houston Gorilla Girls, an anonymnous women’s art collective that protested sexism and racism in the art world from the 1987 to the late nineties. There are nine series, spanning from 1985 to 2000 which are entitled as follows: Correspondence; Organizational Documents and Photographs; Propaganda; Diverse Works Installation: Another Dead Horse; Rice University Installation at the Sewell Gallery: “Been Down So Long Feels Like Up To Me”; Other Gorilla Girls Installations and Shows: 1988-1997; Miscellaneous Clippings, Photographs, Articles, and Correspondence; New York City Guerrilla Girls; and Guerrilla/Gorilla Girls, Other Cities.
This collection includes the articles of incorporation, by-laws, administrative documents, informational brochures, records of consciousness raising and fund-raising events, and newspaper clippings for the Asians Against Domestic Abuse organization.
The collection is organized in 17 series and is housed in 6 boxes that document the organization and community volunteer programs of the Altrusa Club of Houston. The collection includes meeting minutes, financial records, and annual records. Concerning the club's yearly activities, there are newsletters from 1956-2008 and yearbooks ranging from 1936-2008.
Housed in 6 boxes and organized into 5 series titled: Mary Ellen Ewing, Gladys Ewing, Family Photographs, Presley K. Ewing, and Josie (Vesta) Ewing, this collection documents the feminist activities of Mary Ellen Ewing, Gladys Ewing’s social life, legal and familial concerns of Presley K. Ewing, and the writings and journeys of Josie (Vesta) Ewing.
The collection is housed in 5 boxes and organized in 10 series: Organizational Information; The Delphian Society Manuals; Special Projects; Correspondence; Bit-O-News Newsletters; Photographic Material; Publicity Clippings; Delphian Memorial Scholarship Fund; Delphian Chapters’ Scrapbooks and Houston Delphian Assembly Scrapbooks. These series document the organization’s operations, numerous social events and scholarship fund information.
The Komen Foundation, Houston Records are housed in 35 boxes. The materials are arranged chronologically in ongoing yearly series with the following recurring subseries: Administrative Documents, Organizational Documents, Roster, Scholarships and Grants, Informational Material, Newsletters, Sponsors, Events, Race for Cure, Clippings and Correspondence, etc. Most notably, this collection documents organizational events and fundraising efforts from 1998 to 2012.
This small collection is housed in 1 box and consists of one series that documents Norma Lee’s correspondence concerning activist and feminist activities in the mid to late 1970’s. Most notably, the collection contains correspondence from well-known political figures such as Rep. Barbara Jordan. Additionally, you can find correspondence regarding high profile issues and events such the Equal Rights Amendment and the International Women’s Year (IWY) National Women’s Conference, 1977.
The contents of this collection comprise the life of Harriet Joan Ehrlich. The bulk of the materials contained within revolve around Ehrlich’s tenure with the EEOC, specifically as director. The collection has been divided into eight (8) series: Correspondence, Certificates, Personal Writings, Multimedia, News Clippings, Press Books, In-Service Educational Materials, and Ephemera.
This collection is housed in 9 boxes and arranged in 7 series. Annise Parker’s papers document her campaigns for elected office in the City of Houston from: City Council Race-Defeated-1991; City Council Race-Defeated-1995; City Council Race-Won-1997; City Council Race-Won-2001; City Controller Race-Won-2003; and City Controller Race-Won-2005.
Containing 13 series and housed in 6 boxes, this collection documents Mrs. Chenoweth's life's work as a lecturer and writer. Most notably, her lecture and radio show program materials are extensively represented in such formats as article clippings, correspondence, typescript, periodicals and photographic material.
The papers of Leonor Villegas Magnón are organized into eight series: Correspondence, Biographical material, Publications/Manuscripts, Cruz Blanca documents, Texas and US history and politics, Women’s interests, Mexican history and politics, and Photographs.
This collection documents the creative process of Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. as it produced album artwork for Houston-area and other American hip hop artists.
Mrs. Shuart’s papers are organized into three sections. The collection documents contributions to the University of Houston and contains materials relevant to her interests dating back to the mid 1980’s.
This collection consists of 7 series and is housed in 2 boxes. The focus of the papers is the various organizations with which Oren has been affiliated. Most notably, this collection includes organizational material regarding the Houston Area Feminist Federal Credit Union, the National Organization for Women and Women and Labor organizations.
This collection includes materials pertaining to the life and rap career of John Edward Hawkins, or HAWK. Digital files comprise the bulk of the collection and mostly include digital photographs of HAWK and his associates at hip hop related events.
The Burdette Keeland Papers cover the period 1926 to 2000 and are comprised of his architectural drawings, business and personal files, memorabilia, photographic prints, and negatives, as well as materials from his teaching career.
This collection includes personal records, fliers, posters, photographs, business records, audiocassettes, and memorabilia belonging to Carlos “DJ Styles” Garza, and relating to his work as a b-boy, DJ, and hip-hop music producer in Houston from the mid-1980s to 2011.
Personal papers, photographs, creative material and technology, sound recordings, and promotional material comprise the DJ Screw Papers.
This collection consists of materials related to the creation and production of the book Houston Rap, by photographer Peter Beste and writer Lance Scott Walker. These materials include digital photos taken by Beste, audio recordings and transcripts of interviews conducted by Walker, photo prints from the editing process of the book, exhibit prints of photos from the book, photo contact sheets, and dummy copies of the book.
This collection contains documents, photographs, publications, and memorabilia relating to Steve Fournier and his work as a DJ, Rap Pool of America founder, and hip hop promoter in Houston in the 1980s and 1990s.
This collection contains Alesis Digital Audio Tapes (ADATs), invoices, photographs, and posters from Samplified Digital Recording Studios and is divided into four series: Recordings, Invoices, Promotional Materials, and Photographs.
The Houston Hip Hop Recording Artists Collection was started in 2010 as part of an effort to document the history of Houston Hip Hop. This collection is an artificial collection and incorporates smaller collections donated by DJs, rappers, business owners, and the hip hop community. SoSouth was particularly helpful in starting this collection.
This collection contains meeting minutes, treasury reports, correspondence, and documents related to the meetings of the Political Association of Spanish Speaking Organizations (PASSO).
The Emilio R. Ypiñia Journals is a manuscript collection consisting of 5 distinct journals authored by Emilio R. Ypiñia (1905-1936). Each volume contains approximately 100 pages and 10-20 poems, essays, and journal entries authored throughout the 1930s, the bulk in 1933.
The collection is approximately .5 linear feet and consists primarily of documents, correspondence, organization records, photographs and clippings. A significant part of the collection is comprised of photocopies.
The Texas Music Collection contains research files on the history of Texas music, particularly musicians and record labels, including the administrative and financial files of Duke/Peacock records, of the Houston area. Newspaper clippings, photographs, financial records, songbooks, and administrative files comprise the research files.
The KUHT Collection includes film reels, videotapes, correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, photographs, and related material dating from the 1950s through the 1990s. The bulk of the material dates from the mid-1960s to 1990s with a few photographs dating to the early to mid-1950s.
The Mexico Documents Collection is a result of combining several smaller artificial collections into one in order to improve organization and facilitate access. The collection chronicles the history of Mexico from Spanish rule to the Mexican Revolution.
Paper records related to Frontier Fiesta, dating from 1941 to 2006. Materials have been arranged by series, and chronologically within each. Materials found in this collection include programs, newspaper clippings, financial records, contracts, applications, rules and regulations, show scripts, correspondence, and photographs.
The eleven series of Lynn Randolph Papers are housed in three boxes and contain documentation of her exemplary training and career in the visual fine arts including exhibits, shows, reviews, individual art projects, and collaborations.
This collection includes Resurrection Metropolitan Community Church (RMCC) documents, as well as photographs and a film of Ralph Lasher. The collection includes RMCC’s financial and administrative documents, as well as flyers and advertisements. It also includes documents from religious conferences and exercises.
Records in this collection of Tenneco history include three major areas of interest. One group consists of management and planning records created by executives of Tenneco. The second group reflects a joint effort to write the history of Tenneco, Built from Scratch. Draft manuscripts, publication costs, and a Tenneco management reunion reflect the concerted effort to document the company’s history. A third group contains in-house publications reflecting Tenneco’s business accomplishments and publications from a variety of sources that constitute energy industry profiles. A small group of ephemera includes a vinyl record album, photographs, and maps.
This collection consists of 59 exhibition panels, two large light boxes with transparencies, and mounting hardware. The exhibition purports to show fifty Hines projects, but the materials received from the donor include only 48.
This collection includes writings by Royal Dixon as well as other authors close to Dixon, biographical material, materials related to his teaching and his leadership of organizational activity, correspondence, research notes from his writings, and newspaper clippings the author collected.
This collection includes anthologies and journals that contain Estess’ poetry and reviews. Whole volumes are arranged alphabetically by journal title.
This collection contains deeds, abstracts of title, legal files, real estate sales records, and many other materials related to businesses and properties held by various members of the Detering family from 1871-1989.
This collection contains drafts, revisions, editorial notes, and writings pertaining to the works of American novelist and poet Olive Hershey.
The Texas Medical Center: A History of the Founding Years, 1941-1980 is an unpublished photocopied typescript (232 pages) consisting of a Preface, nine chapters, and a bibliography.
This collection contains materials produced by or related to the Immanuel and Helen Olshan Texas Music Festival held at the University of Houston. Collection materials date from 1985 to 2013, though the majority of materials are from 1991 to 2013.
This collection primarily consists of correspondence from Captain O.C. McDavid during his service in World War II in the South Pacific.
The This is Our Home, It Is Not for Sale Film Collection contains records covering the full scope of the production of a documentary film. Records cover fundraising activities, releases and contracts, insurance, research materials, production notes and logs, film screenings and festivals, photographs, and posters.
The collection contains typed and handwritten drafts of poems and other writings, as well as correspondence, photographs, clippings, and memorabilia related to Cynthia Macdonald’s life and work as an accomplished poet and co-founder of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston.
The collection includes personal office files, teaching aids, sheet music, and Moffit arrangements of SWC school fight songs.  It also contains complete shows for marching band, as well as general formation patterns.  There are original Moffit working scores, formations/shows for the Michigan State University Marching Band, the University of Houston Marching Band, and the Purdue University “All-American” Marching Band.  It also includes the Patterns of Motion material, ephemera, and awards. Materials range in date from the 1930s to 2008.
The Chocolate Bayou Theater Company Collection consists of 3 boxes of materials dating from 1979-1988.  The collection is divided into two series: Administrative Papers and Productions.
The Mary Foote Manuscripts Collection contains four of the children's moralistic or cautionary tales of author Mary P. Foote.
The University of Houston Women's Association Collection contain records of the organization from its founding in 1962 through 1994. The bulk of the materials date from the 1980s. Most of the UHWA papers consist of paper documents, with a few photographs.
This collection contains legal documents, advertisements, correspondence, and maps from various Texas counties dating from 1818 to 1907. Deeds and tax receipts make up a signififcant portion of the collection.
Vitae folders are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each card contains information (education, date of birth, brief employment history, and sometimes a photograph) for people employed by the University of Houston. Some of the folders also contain newspaper clippings associated with that individual.
Forms part of the University Archives. The U.H. News Releases include official university news releases, advertisements, correspondence, and administrative records, dating from 1947-1954. This collection is arranged into series based primarily on how it was originally received.
These records are contained in 18 record cartons. The materials relate to the Open University program and include correspondence, reports, program information, workbooks and classroom supplements.
The collection is a result of integrating several items from Manuscripts A-Z into one artificial collection to improve organization and facilitate greater access. The collection contains correspondence, manuscripts, notes, and autographs belonging to various American and British literary figures from the 19th and 20th century (with one exception from 1634).
This collection consists of manuscripts from a variety of sources. Included are correspondence, legal documents, printed documents, and other formats. In addition to original documents, some folders also contain transcriptions, translations, or preliminary research notes.
This collection includes administrative files from the Houston National Bank, as well as scrapbooks of prominent individuals associated with the bank.
The Larry McMurtry Collection contains multiple typescript manuscript drafts of the novels Leaving Cheyenne, The Last Picture Show, Moving On, Somebody's Darling, Cadillac Jack: A Novel, The Desert Rose, Lonesome Dove, and Texasville, plus manuscript notes and publisher's copies related to some of these works. The collection also contains the typescript manuscripts and first galley proofs for the book of essays In a Narrow Grave.
This collection contains notebooks, correspondence, and other works by William B. Shrimplin. A particular focus is on the development of Shrimplin's personal bookplate. Also included are correspondence and works both by and relating to Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain).
The Edward Holley Resources of Texas Libraries Papers contains materials relating to the book, Resources of Texas Libraries (1968) that he co-authored with Donald D. Hendricks. Items in the collection range in date from 1964 to 1970 with most of the material dating between 1967 and 1968.
The collection is housed in 3 boxes and 2 drawers and is organized into 10 series entitled: Organizational Documents, Roster/Year Books, Newsletters, Photographic Works, ROBWEC Anniversaries, Invitations and Greetings, Clippings, Correspondence, Notes, and Ephemera.
This collection contains five series: The TOA President Correspondence, Executive Secretary Correspondence, TOA Committee Correspondence, TOA Administration, and Audio Tapes. Material includes correspondence, memoranda, meetings, newspaper clippings, reports, audio tapes and other administrative material.
The collection arrived in generally good order and condition. Some material from the late 1950s to early 1960s was very brittle, and has been placed in protective mylar. The collection includes an almost complete run of minutes, financials, and yearbooks.
The Harper Leiper Studios Houston Aerial Photographs Collection contains aerial photographs of Houston during the 1970s and early 1980s taken by commercial photographers Harper Leiper Studios.
The Womynspace Records is housed in 1 box and consists of 3 series: Organizational Information, Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) and Disarmament Movement. This collection documents organizational meetings, events and goals. Additionally, these records include material from the 1970s and 1980s collected by the organization regarding Pro- and Anti- ERA sentiments, ERA ratification deadline extension Senate Hearings and the Disarmament Movement.
The Houston Municipal Wharves Photographs Collection contains photographs of Houston Ship Channel construction during the years 1916-1917.
The Houston Chinatown Photographs Collection contains scenes of Houston’s Chinatown taken during the 1970s or early 1980s.
The U.H. Forensics Team Records contains newspaper articles, schedules of tournament events, correspondence, tapes, and photographs relating to the U.H. Forensics Team between the years of 1956-1973. Typically the newspaper articles describe the team's performance at various national tournaments.
Housed in 2 boxes, this two-series collection primarily documents the year of Judge Sondock’s appointment to the Texas Supreme Court as an Associate Justice in 1982. Most notably, this collection includes a 25 in by 17 in, 96-page scrapbook consisting of clippings, photographs, invitations, programs, correspondence, and congratulatory notes regarding her 1982 appointment. Additionally, this collection contains childhood photographs of Judge Sondock from the 1930s.
The collection primarily contains announcements, scholarly journal articles, newsletters, and newspaper clippings, the majority pertaining to Dr. Stead's academic contributions as well as her efforts to establish FHPW and GHBER.
This collection is housed in 9 boxes and organized into 5 series. The content of the collection consists of Houston Comet’s memorabilia documenting their four WNBA championship wins from years 1997 to 2000.
The John H. Lienhard series of speeches and materials cover a diverse range of topics. The earliest speech dates from 1962 and the most recent in the collection dates from November 1997.
The papers of Edison Ellsworth Oberholtzer contain employment contracts, information relating to the University of Houston, photographs, newspapers, certificates, and diplomas.
This collection includes two naval uniforms and a panoramic photograph.
This collection contains eighty-eight vintage postcards collected by E. Virginia Barnett. The collection includes materials from Arkansas, California, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Virginia, Oregon, Washington and Washington D.C.
The collection contains the transcripts and cassettes of the Phi Kappa Phi oral history interviews. A small amount of written material and three computer diskettes are also included with the collection. All materials date from 1978 to 1985. The cassettes have been boxed separately for preservation reasons.
The Schlayer Collection contains the typescript and galleys for the book How to Be a Financially Secure Woman (New York: Rawson Associates, 1977).  The collection consists of three documents: a photocopy of the typescript, and two sets of galley proofs, one marked “Author’s reading set 1 of 2”, and the other “Author’s reading set 2 of 2.”
This collection contains photographs, correspondence, newspaper clippings, short stories, and articles related to or written by Donald Barthelme and his brothers, Rick, Steve, and Peter Barthelme, as well as notes by Helen Barthelme.
These records contain 1 box relating to the Houston Alumni Organization. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include manuals, certificates, event programs and flyers, promotional material, fundraising material, newsletters, published material, reports, correspondence, posters, and stationary.
These records contain 9 boxes, 9 oversize folders and 1 scrapbook, all relating to the various athletic teams of the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the University Print Plant.
These records contain 7 boxes relating to the C.T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
This collection contains records relating to the Hines College of Architecture at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 9 boxes relating to the various departments that make up the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 6 boxes relating to the College of Education at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 2 boxes and 1 oversize folder relating to the University of Houston Law Center. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 4 boxes and 1 oversize folder relating to the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 2 boxes relating to the College of Optometry at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 1 box relating to the College of Pharmacy at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 2 boxes relating to the College of Technology at the University of Houston. Material includes booklets, flyers, reports, handbooks, manuals, and video tapes.
These records contain 3 boxes relating to the Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 10 boxes relating to the Cullen College of Engineering at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
This collection contain 2 boxes of records relating to the Graduate School of Social Work at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
These records contain 1 box relating to the Honors College at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
This artificial collection was created to bring together materials related to the investiture of Presidents and Chancellors at the University of Houston.
This small collection contains memorabilia collected from the revolution. Included with the items are translations provided by the donor.
The collection consists of Sanskrit and Gita scholar Vishnu K. Divecha's work as a translator, teacher, and student of the Bhagavad Gita and other Sanskrit and Hindi works, as well as a library of such works.
This collection contains materials from Voices Breaking Boundaries’ (VBB) history and administration, planning documents, event materials, press clippings and audio-visual materials.
This collection contains materials related to organizational structure of the Houston Area Fiber Artists (HAFA), such as meeting minutes, financial records, secretarial records, membership lists, and more. There is also extensive photographic documentation of various art pieces created by HAFA members, as well as a number of VHS tapes and DVDs showcasing this material.
Crooker’s papers include documents relating to zoning ordinances, city planning minutes, activities of subdivisions, news clippings on development issues, City Council speakers, and organizations such as Citizens for Zoning.
Collection includes records relating to the formation and development of the Gulf Coast Council on Foreign Affairs and its successor organizations, the Gulf Coast World Affairs Council, and the Houston World Affairs Council.
Materials in this collection represent Hana Ginzbarg’s working files for Armand Bayou.
This collection includes the records from the Scottish Brigade Alumnae association and the Scottish Brigade. The series included are: Scottish Brigade Alumnae Records; Scottish Brigade Alumnae Photographic and Video Material; Official Brigade Records; Scottish Brigade Performance Material; Scottish Brigade Photographic Material; Scottish Brigade Publicity Clippings; Stephen F. Austin Senior High School Yearbooks; and Scottish Brigade Memorabilia and Scrapbooks.
The processed records in this collection contain 14 boxes relating to the various student organizations at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant.
This collection contains theatre programs from 1939-1961.
Houston Heights is situated northwest of downtown Houston, Texas. This Collection contains records from the Houston Abstract Company, the Houston Title Guaranty Company, the Stewart Title Company, and the Southern Abstract and Title Company.
This collection is primarily concerned with correspondence from Kenneth Wade Kennedy relating to his World War II service. The collection also includes correspondence from various family members, newspaper clippings relevant to the family, and a small number of musicale programs and wedding invitations.
The H. David Kaplan Schlumberger Well Services Collection contains information ranging from 1970-1976.
This collection consists of six volumes of subdivision plat maps of developed areas of Houston, Texas recorded between approximately 1900 and 1970.
This is an artificial and disparate collection of Texana, or materials relating to the history of Texas. In order for the collection to be useful to researchers, an artificial order was imposed by the processor.
The Business Manager Records of C. F. McElhinney are the records McElhinney generated during his tenure at the University of Houston (1945-1973).
The processed portion of these papers includes 12 linear feet described in five series. They comprise the editorial files for 100 Years of Science and Technology in Texas, published by Rice University Press in 1986. Professor Swenson, of the University of Houston, and Reverend Leo Klosterman, of the University of St. Thomas, co-edited the work, which was sponsored by Sigma Xi, a scientific research society. The materials date from 1977 to 1987.
This collection contains papers related to the publication of Le Bayou and includes subscription information, correspondence, and the submissions of both published and unpublished authors. It also includes the papers of Le Quartier Latin, the French Club of the University of Houston, and its publication Le Feuille de Chou.
The documents in this collection have been identified as forgeries and were exhibited at a Forgery Conference held at the University of Houston Libraries in 1989.
This collection contains manuscript scores for 6 of Carlisle Floyd's works, dating from 1958 to 1992.
This collection includes slides of life in Eastern Europe and Soviet Russia during the late 1920's to the early 1930's. There are also examples of artwork, monuments, and the palaces of the wealthy.
The UH Core Advisory Committee Records document the development of the University of Houston's Core Curriculum from 1966 to 1992. Materials include university self studies, task force and committee reports, core curriculum documents, and undergraduate council minutes.
This collection consists of two color aerial photographs of Houston, Texas taken in 1972 by the International Aerial Mapping Company of San Antonio.
This collection consists of one bound volume of color aerial photographs of Houston, Texas taken in 1983 by MPSI Mapping, Inc. of Dallas. It measures approximately 20 inches by 25 inches.
The Sue Dauphin Houston Area Performing Arts Collection consists of eleven boxes of materials dating from 1947 to 1987.
The collection consists mainly of media records such as articles, magazines, news clippings and newsletters. The collection also contains bills, bill analyses and proposals, speeches and brochures. Other printed materials in the collection include invitations to events, directories, certificates, cards and campaign originals. The ephemeral material consists of pins, posters, special license plates and framed photographs.
The collection is organized in eleven series and housed in 6 boxes. Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the material is the correspondence between the inmates and the organization. The series are organizational material, administrative documents, Goree unit TDC, correction system: laws & conditions, volunteer program, client services, Christmas projects, external correspondence, published information and photographic materials.
Ninfa’s Papers include business plans, business, personal, and political correspondence, photographs, magazine and newspaper clippings press coverage, proof of public service deeds, scrapbooks, artifacts (buttons and stamps, memorabilia, menus, plaques), and framed enlarged picture and media items and roughly cover the years from 1971 to 2001.
Scenic Houston is a chapter of Scenic Texas, Inc., a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that focuses on promoting policies and actions that enhance the beauty and appeal of our streetscapes and roadways.
Collection of 43 geochemical data maps from locations in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, Kentucky, and Israel.
The original order of the Professor Richard Jonas Papers has been maintained where possible. The collection includes limited correspondence, brochures and directories that relate to health, welfare and various community-related agencies.
The Ruth Pennybacker Collection consists of the teaching aids she used in class, photocopies of plays, news clippings, and programmes. Included in the collection is a scrapbook crafted in 1967 by her students, colleagues, and friends as a tribute to Miss Pennybacker.
The Faculty Organizations Records primarily consist of organizational minutes, as well as constitutions, bylaws, and reports. Records include those of the Faculty Association (1954-1963), Faculty Assembly 91951-1959), and Faculty Senate (1969-2005).
The Collection contains materials related to the book, A College Forum, edited by Joseph Doggett, Everett Gillis, and Rosa Bludworth, published by The Odyssey Press in 1963.
The American Association of University Professors, University of Houston Chapter Records consists mainly of documents directly related to the organization including the Constitution, minutes, bank statements, letters, correspondence, membership lists, and newsletters.
The UH Veteran's Office Records contain material pertaining to the university and government-sponsored office for the support and advising of veteran students during the 1940s and 1950s. Dates for items in the collection range from 1944 to 1958, with the bulk of the material dating from the late 1940s.
The Veteran's Village Records contain material dealing with the organization of the Veteran's Council, the UH Veteran's Club, newsletters as well as announcements, petitions, and press releases. Items date from 1945 to 1956 with most of the material dating from the late 1940s and early 1950s.
The UH 50th Anniversary (Half Century) Records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of documents relating to the various events of the celebration and the committee overseeing the events.
The UH Statistics Records contain various reports issued by the University. Some of the topics of these reports include Teacher Load Reports, New Students, Statistics, Coordinating Board Reports, and Grade Distribution Reports.
This collection consists of twenty-nine Boxes of records relating to all aspects of the College of Arts and Sciences.
The Professor John Q. Anderson Papers contain extensive materials including letters from former students, a diary, transcripts and other materials relating to American folk beliefs, medicine, and folksongs along with newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, notes, and many other items.
This collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists of Audit Reports, Correspondence, Board Minutes, Proposals, Reports, Rules and Regulations, Resolutions, and Statements.
The Battin Collection contains correspondence, articles, lecture notes, scrapbooks, photographs, scripts, and films. The materials date from 1936 to 1976, and comprise eleven manuscript boxes, one newspaper box and six films, five in reel cases. Because so many articles are one paragraph or less, they were placed with others in Mylar sheet protectors for preservation.
University of Houston World War II Clippings contains newspaper articles that mostly relate to the University of Houston during the years 1939-1944.
The collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order and in general the original order has been maintained. Materials in the collection include departmental records, extensive press clippings, and videos.
The collection arrived at the Archives in good order and the original order has been maintained whenever possible. The collection consists of thirty-five folders dating from 1958-1994.
The collection includes information about the history of the African American Studies Program, the First Annual Wilson Whitley Golf Tournament, fellowship programs, and study abroad programs. Materials in the collection include annual reports, brochures, catalogs, development plans, grant proposals, and reports to the community.
The collection contains financial, promotional, and managerial records of Hazelwitch Productions from the date of its receipt of Certificate of Operation in July 1981 to its final production in 1996.
This collection is composed of minutes, budgets, programs, and ephemera, arranged into four series.
This collection documents the career of Nikki Van Hightower from the time of her appointment as Women's Advocate up to, and including, her work as Harris County Treasurer.
The records of the Greater Houston Women's Foundation (GHWF) consist mainly of documents related to the organization, including financial and administrative records, membership records, newsletters, correspondence, and some oversize material such as promotional posters and placards.
The Hispanic Women in Leadership collection contains information about the group's conferences, meetings, organization, and programs. The conferences series is the largest, as the annual conference is the main activity of Hispanic Women.
The River Oaks Blossom Club collection contains material dating from the Club's inception in 1939 through 2004.
The papers of the Federation of Houston Professional Women (FHPW) consist primarily of meeting notices, agendas, and minutes; fliers for Federation or Federation-sponsored activities; financial reports; membership rosters; and photographs. The majority of the material falls between 1990 and 1997.
The papers for the Houston Women’s Caucus for Art (HWCA) span from its founding in 1978 to 2004. Some items, however, pre-date this period. The largest portion of the records is devoted to photos and to art exhibitions sponsored by the Caucus. The next largest portion includes newsletters, grant applications and fundraising, financial records, and conferences. The remainder of the collection is devoted to information pertaining to the business of the Caucus, membership, and the visual arts in Houston.
The papers of the Women in Visual and Literary Arts (WIVLA) consist of meeting minutes, fliers about events, and newsletters. All material dates from 1994 to 2011.
Although the Women's Assembly founded Brigid's Place in 1996, the papers in ththe processed portion of this collection span from 1974 to 2011. Some research items date to the late 1980s and early 1990s. The original accession of papers arrived in five boxes, which split naturally into the two categories of the Women's Assembly and Brigid's Place. The papers were arranged topically and chronologically.
The collection arrived in little discernable order and the processor in consultation with the archivist has imposed an order.
The Women's Fund for Health Education and Resiliency Records collection consists of 34 boxes of material, including fundraising and educational outreach events documentation, administrative materials, committee meeting minutes and files, correspondence, membership rosters, income tallies, research grant applications, photographs, newsletters, and publications.
Information in the collection includes material on the history of the organization, business and financial records, materials from the three annual celebrations, and programs from area worship services. It also includes yearbooks, photographs, and scrapbooks.
The collection consists of administrative materials such as meeting invitations and agendas, minutes, financial reports, bylaws, and events sponsored by the Women's Studies department as well as newsletters published by the Women's Studies and Friends of Women's Studies and various ephemera and memorabilia.
The KUHT Records includes correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, photographs, and related material dating from the 1950s through the 1990s. The bulk of the material dates from the mid-1960s to 1990s.
This collection includes the organization's correspondence with the government and members' correspondence amongst themselves, as well as announcements of meetings and different events that they held occasionally. It also includes electric battery review booklets plus articles showing the organization and members' various achievements.
Comprised of a Project File and a Subject File, materials in the collection date from 1894-1957 and include project blueprints, correspondence, financials, reports, maps, and field notes. Project File materials document Waldo's professional activities, ranging from construction and site planning to worksite and employee management. These materials document major projects, such as the Beaumont, Sour Lake, and Western Railway and the layout of Rice University, and smaller projects, such as the movement and reconstruction of the Waldo Mansion to its present Westmoreland location. Collection materials also include personal correspondence, financials, maps, scrapbooks of newspaper clippings, and a small amount of material related to the teaching career of Gentry Waldo, Wilmer Waldo's brother.
Democratic representative of District 13 in the Texas State House of Representatives, 1966-1980. Collection includes correspondence, publications, notes, and other materials pertaining to a variety of individuals and subjects from across Allred's political career.
Henry Hank Eggers (1938-2012) was born in Philadelphia PA and was an Electronics Technician in the U.S. Navy. Shortly after leaving the U.S. Navy in the early 1960s, Eggers became a Field Engineer for General Dynamics Corporation. He was sent to Houston from San Diego California to work at NASA under contract on installing and maintaining the IBM 4020-Bitserver as well as other computer and electronics equipment. He was responsible for the design of several circuits to improve the speed and efficiency of the system and conducted meetings with representatives from Kodak and Lockheed and showed demonstrations of the 4020 as they were interested in purchasing this type of equipment.
Maxime Faget was born on August 26, 1921, in Stannis Creek, British Honduras (now Belize) and died on October 9, 2004, in Houston, Texas. Dr. Faget was married to the former Nancy Carastro of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. They lived in Dickinson, Texas, with their four children, Ann Lee, Carol Lee, Nanette, and Guy. After graduating from Louisiana State University, Faget served in the Submarine Service of the United States Navy during World War II. During his lifetime, Faget worked as a United States government employee, first at the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) and then later as one of the founding employees of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Faget was on the design team for the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo, and Space Shuttle vehicles and held several key patents for both Mercury and Shuttle.
After his retirement from government service, Faget went on to found the company Space Industries. He began Space Industries, Inc. with the goal of placing a commercially operated space station in orbit. This project, named the Industrial Space Facility, was proceeding well until the disaster of Space Shuttle Challenger. After the Challenger disaster, resistance from Congress caused several key financial backers to pull out, effectively ending the viability of a commercial space venture for the 1980s and 1990s. After the disaster, Space Industries first merged with the Calspan Corporation and later with General Dynamics Corporation. It no longer exists as an independent entity.
Faget received many awards during his lifetime, including being inducted into the Space Hall of Fame and the National Inventors Hall of Fame and being elected to the National Academy of Engineering. Faget received the Arthur S. Flemming Award in 1960. He was presented the Golden Plate Award in 1961 by the Academy of Achievement. In 1963, he was awarded the NASA Medal for Outstanding Leadership, and in 1965, he was given the Award of Loyola. Faget received an honorary Doctorate of Engineering from the University of Pittsburgh in March 1966. He was an active member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Faget died in 2004....
Clell Thorpe served as a Marine Corps photographer documenting the activities of Marines in the South Pacific during World War II. During the period [1944?]-1945, he traveled to several islands that had been taken from Japanese in earlier battles, such as Tarawa (captured in November 1943) and Kwajalein (captured on February 1944).
In 1943, Thorpe trained as a Marine Corps photographer at the Naval School of Photography in Pensacola, FL (the Marine Corps is administratively part of the U.S. Navy).
One of Thorpe's assignments involved photographing the Marine Bombing Squadron (VMB-613). The squadron trained in Boca Chica, Florida and Newport, Arkansas during 1944, then went to the home base for the VMB-613 as the squadron participated in operations in the Marshall Island throughout the war.
Thorpe took many photographs on a Pacific atoll in the Marshall Islands, which was not identified due to wartime censorship.
Thorpe also photographed on Tarawa Island in 1945.
Thorpe is known to have lived in Houston, Texas during 1947, and probably other years.
The Nassau Bay Garden Club was chartered in 1964 and is one of the oldest organizations in Nassau Bay, TX. The first year saw twenty-three charter members and the adoption of the pansy as its club flower.
During the 1965-66 year, the Club was accepted into the Houston Federation of Garden Clubs, Inc. and the Yard of the Month awards and first flower shows were instituted. Other early years saw the beginning of the annual Christmas Tour of Homes, judging of outdoor Christmas lights, and the planting and lighting of a memorial Christmas tree in honor of astronaut Roger Chaffee, who died in the Apollo 1 spacecraft fire in 1967.
Other projects have included Arbor Day tree plantings, beautification of NASA Rd. 1, donations of litter barrels and money, and plantings of other shrubs and flowers at Nassau Bay establishments.
The Club elects and appoints board and committee officers every year and membership is open to any resident of the City of Nassau Bay.
Irvin M. Borish was born on January 21, 1913 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the son a Lithuanian Jewish immigrants. His father later contracted tuberculosis, forcing the family to move to Liberty, New York, where Borish graduated from Liberty High School. He returned to Philadelphia in 1930 to pursue studies in English literature at Temple University. In 1932 he enrolled in the Northern Illinois College of Optometry in Chicago.
Dr. Borish graduated from Northern Illinois College of Optometry in 1935 and achieved the best academic record in the institution's history. During the same year, the Northern Illinois College of Optometry also appointed him to the position of Instructor on the school's faculty as well as Chief of Staff for the college's Eye Clinic. By 1942, Dr. Borish held the position of Assistant Dean.
In 1944 Borish moved to Kokomo, Indiana where he started a successful private optometric practice. A heart attack in 1973 forced him to retire from private practice. After recovering, he assumed a full-time faculty position at Indiana University's Optometry School. Between the 1944 and 1973 he actively pursued many endeavors. In 1948 the first of numerous editions of Clinical Refraction, still a standard for optometry students, was published. While in private practice, Borish lobbied for the establishment of an optometry school in Bloomington, Indiana, wrote nearly one hundred articles, delivered numerous lectures, served as a visiting professor to at least nine optometry schools, and patented hard toric and bifocal contact lenses. He also contributed to the by-laws establishing the Association of Schools and Colleges of Optometry, coauthored the original manual of Accreditation used by the Council on Education and Accreditation in Optometry, as well as working on the by-laws of the Contact Lens Manufacturers Association which sets standards for the safe manufacture of contact lenses.
Dr. Borish retired from Indiana University in 1982, at which time he assumed the Benedict Professorship of Optometric Practice at the University of Houston. Since his arrival at the University of Houston, the University of Houston College of Optometry has established the Irvin M. Borish Chair in Optometric Practice (1987), an endowed chair with more than one million dollars of support. In 1995, Indiana University honored him by establishing the Borish Center for Ophthalmic Research.
Frances Weeks began working at Neumann Library on March 1, 1996 and served as Coordinator of Access Services, supervising both the interlibrary loan and circulation departments. During her time here, she donated a complete collection of Newbery Medal award winning books to the Curriculum Library. She also was instrumental in the formation of the UHCL Veterans Scholarship Endowment, which she, along with others, helped fund. She was active in the UHCL Veteran's Day Celebrations, The President's Cabinet, and was part of the charter class of Leaders in Action. She retired from the University on January 2, 2014 after 17.5 years of employment.
Gay Carter served as a charter reference librarian from the time the University opened its doors in 1974. In 1980, she began supervising Neumann Library's federal depository and Texas state depository collections. She was active in the Government Documents Round Table of the Texas Library Association, serving as both chair-elect and chair. Gay has been involved for many years in genealogical research and has been a featured speaker, presenter, and writer for several genealogical organizations. She retired from the University in May, 2013.
The Houston Ship Channel was established in 1914; however, Buffalo Bayou, which flows through Houston, had been used for boat navigation as early as 1839. In 1841, the mayor of Houston established the Port of Houston, which was supported by the city and later by the state of Texas. In 1880, Congressional legislation was introduced which began the involvement of the federal government in the Ship Channel.
The Houston Ship Channel was completed in 1914, although many additional improvements and changes have been made since that date. These include the dredging of the turning basin, allowing for larger ships to navigate the channel, and widening the entrance to the channel.
Several books have been written about the Port of Houston. For additional information, see:
Sibley, Marilyn McAdams. The Port of Houston: A History. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1968.
Ball, Thomas Henry. The Port of Houston: How It Came to Pass. Houston, Tex., 1944.
The Petroleum Institute was an annual educational seminar, consisting of three courses, held at the University of Houston from 1958 until 1994. It was a joint effort between the Oil Information Committee of the Texas Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association and the Department of Curriculum and Instruction of the College of Education. University faculty and individuals from the petroleum industry conducted the Institute. The Institute was designed to inform participants about all aspects of the petroleum industry. By doing so, it crossed the traditional course content fields normally taught at this University. The areas where the content of the Institute could be used were as follows:
1. Sciences (emphasized earth science, geology, chemistry, and physics)
2. Environmental Studies
3. Social Sciences (emphasized economics, geography, history, and political science)
The content of the courses included presentations by lecturers from the petroleum industry who were experts on a particular subject. The courses also included the development of teaching materials that could be used to infuse energy education into the curriculum. The three courses carried three semester hours of graduate credit and were accepted by many graduate programs within the Department of Curriculum and Instruction.
Floyd Glass served in the United States Navy for several years. During World War II, he was stationed abroad in England for some time.
After his retirement from the Navy, Glass and his wife Marjorie moved to Houston. During this time he assembled a fine collection of books on English literature and history, as well as illustrated books and books with unusual bindings. This collection was donated to the University of Houston Libraries in the late 1960s.
The partnership was originally incorporated in May 1976 as the Clear Lake Area Economic Development Foundation (CLAEDF) by a core group of merchants and corporation executives to promote business, tourism, and the continued development of the Space Program in the Clear Lake area. In 1995, the name changed to Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership (BAHEP), to signify the wider expanse of influence and development which was no longer limited to the Clear Lake Area, and included many of the communities along the Gulf Coast around Houston.
In response to student demands, the African American Studies Program was established during the late 1960s. The program offers courses that focus on the history and culture of African Americans and the contributions that people of African descent have made to American and world civilizations.
Over the past thirty years the African American Studies Program has added new courses, received additional and continuous funding, stimulated increased student interest, and expanded its associated cultural activities and community presence. Recruitment and retention of African American students has also been an important goal of the African American Studies Program. Enrollment now stands at over 1,600 students.
The organization outlined its goals for the nineties as: (1) creating a new generation of leaders who challenge stereotypes, prejudice, discrimination and belief systems that hinder the intellectual emancipation and personal growth of all members of society, (2) promoting a mutual understanding between various ethnic and cultural groups of the university, and (3) developing an awareness of the richness of the African American experience and the contributions of African Americans to society.
African American Studies Program Handout, Box 2, folder 1.
Tom C. Battin was born in Marietta, Ohio, on July 29, 1905. In 1935 he received his BS in Television from Ohio University. He earned his MA from the University of Michigan in 1940. In 1951, he became the recipient of the first PhD ever awarded in Radio/Television Communication, also from the University of Michigan.
His thesis, The Use of the Diary and Survey Method Involving the Questionnaire Interview Technique, was widely used by television networks because it provided the first audience measurement of families' viewing habits. Considered a pioneer in educational television, Dr. Battin was involved in productions at the University of Michigan, the University of Florida, and the University of Houston. He taught at UH for 21 years and was Professor Emeritus at the University of Houston School of Communication.
Dr. Battin had experience in university theater, motion picture production, and acted in character roles in several films. He served as dialogue director for Cecil B. deMille and worked with director George Schaffer.
Dr. Battin published articles on television in educational and trade journals. He contributed chapters to widely used texts for college television instruction, including "Understanding Television: an Introduction to Broadcasting." Tom Jerriel and Bill Fleming were among his students. He died September 20, 1987.
John Marshall Eggleston, Jr. "Jack" was born in San Francisco, CA. June 26, 1926. His father was a career Navy officer from Norfolk, where Jack was raised and graduated from Oceana High School. Jack served in WWII in the USMC participating in the USMC campaign at Okinawa in 1945 and was the sole survivor of the First Marine Division.
Jack received his BS in Aeronautical Engineering VPI, 1949, MS degree in Aeronautical Engineering from University of Virginia in 1954, and MS degree in Engineering from Princeton University in 1958. In 1949 he joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, predecessor of NASA, and was assigned to High Speed Flight Research center in Muroc, California from 1949-1951 where he worked as a flight test engineer on the early supersonic research aircraft which were then in there testing stages. He returned to the Langley Research Center as a research scientist in stability and control of aircraft and missiles in 1951. In 1958 when NACA became NASA, he became Assistant Chief of the Flight Mechanics Branch at Langley working on spacecraft reentry and rendezvous, developing techniques later used on the Gemini and Apollo missions. As a Langley representative he was a member of the first group to develop the Apollo concept.
In 1962 he transferred to the Space Task Group and moved to Houston where he helped to develop the Lunar Module concept for the Apollo program into a definitive design which would accomplish the mission. In 1963 he became Assistant Chief of the Space Environment Division composed of geologists, space physicists, cartographers and geophysicists, responsible for defining the space environment and lunar surface characteristics for design of Apollo spacecraft, lunar surface experiments, spacesuits and mission operations. From 1965-1966 NASA relocated Jack and his family to Boston allowing him to participate at MIT as a Sloan Fellow in Industrial Management. Returning to Houston in 1966 he was Deputy Chief, Lunar and Earth Sciences Division until 1971; responsible for definition of Lunar surface experiments, landing site selection and survey of orbital earth resources capability using remote sensors.
In 1968 he was assigned as Staff Assistant to Director of the Manned Spacecraft Center, involved in management techniques. He was responsible for coordinating and planning the use of Center resources in terms of Center programs, developing and recommending management techniques for planning and work implementation: serving as technical advisor to the Director, Deputy Director, and Associate Director of the Manned Space Craft Center concerning management operations, optimum planning for the utilization of R and D laboratories and facilities at the Center, and the reallocation of civil service and support contractor manpower to support the technical programs of the Center.
He completed his career at JSC serving as assistant to the Director of Engineering and Development from 1971-1980. As such he acted as Program Manager overseeing a staff of 800-1000 people, mostly engineers. They were collectively responsible for the development, test, and operational readiness of all subsystems in manned spacecraft (including Apollo, SkyLab, ASTP, and Space Shuttle). In 1980 Jack retired as a Civil Servant with 30 years' service in NACA and NASA having substantially contributed to the success of the United States Space Program. Jack spent the next 10 years working as a consultant with several NASA contractors, most notably Eagle Engineering. In 1988, he retired to his beloved Farm in Hanover County, Virginia where he had a very happy life riding around on his tractor until moving to Harbors Edge Retirement Community in 2006.
In his off hours, Jack was very active in the Boy Scouts of America, Sam Houston Area Council. He served as both a Troop Leader and Adult Leader Trainer, spending numerous weekends and holidays assisting at Camp Strake. He was also a founding member of and very active in the Space Center Rotary Club.
Jack passed away on Monday, February 23, 2009 in Norfolk, Virginia. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Phyllis Holland Eggleston, also of Norfolk, VA. He was preceded in death by his son Dr. John Marshall Eggleston, III. He leaves behind 3 children Mary Allen Wylie Stang of Seabrook, TX and husband David C. Stang; Rebecca Holland Eggleston of Wake, VA and husband David A. Turner; and Robert Allen Eggleston of Norfolk, VA and wife Jana Goloff Eggleston; and son-in-law Alan D. Wylie of Seabrook, TX. He also leaves 6 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren.
The Houston Saengerbund (Singing Society) was founded on Oct. 6, 1883, as an organization through which German immigrants in Houston could join with their countrymen to sing songs in the German language. The Houston Saengerbund was one of a number of all-male singing organizations which formed in the German communities of Texas during the last half of the 19th century. These local groups were united under Der Deutsch-Texanische Saengerbund (the German-Texan Singers' League, or DTSB), a regional organization which held biennial meetings and Saengerfeste (Singing Festivals) in various Texas cities.
The Houston Saengerbund swelled to over one thousand members before World War One, and in 1913 Houston played host to a particularly elaborate DTSB Saengerfest which featured a full orchestra and world-class opera singers. But during the war years membership fell as Germans became reluctant to draw attention to their nationality.
After the war, membership increased and the group flourished. The Saengerbund bought their first in a series of clubhouses, and introduced new activities such as dancing, children's plays, and beach excursions. The club officially began admitting women as members in 1937 with the formation of the Ladies Auxiliary and the Damenchor (Women's Chorus).
With the onset of World War II, the Saengerbund members changed the name of the group to “The Houston Singing Society,” quit their primary activity of singing German songs, and began keeping minutes in English due to their concern about arousing anti-German sentiment. After the war, the club members restored both their singing and their name, but membership declined, partly owing to a drop in German immigration.
The Houston Saengerbund is still in existence more than one hundred years after its founding, and the Saengerbund and Damenchor continue to perform at the Saengerfeste of the DTSB, the International Festival, Lights in the Heights, and other public events.
The Timber Cove neighborhood was developed in February 1958 on farmland previously owned by the Ballentine family. When NASA announced the construction of the Manned Spacecraft Center in this part of Harris County, astronauts and other NASA families purchased lots and homes in the neighborhood, creating a housing boom. The community developed into a close family-oriented neighborhood.
In 1962, the Timber Cove Civic Club formed an independent committee to investigate the feasibility of constructing a swimming pool and recreation area. After an initial survey of residents found over 70% favored the project, they held a charter membership drive to raise funds. Charter members paid a $50 initiation fee, $135 charter membership share and $65 annual dues. Membership surpassed the required minimum quota of 80 initial members by March 1963.
The Timber Cove Recreation Association incorporated on April 10, 1963 as a non-profit corporation to promote the public health and interests of the Timber Cove residents by owning and operating a swimming pool and clubhouse for its members. Taylor Lake Development Company deeded the land to the Timber Cove Recreation Association for $10 on April 22, 1963. TCRA contracted Abernathy Company to construct the swimming pool in May 1963. Traditional Homes built the clubhouse.
The swimming pool was purposefully designed to resemble the shape of the Mercury capsule to honor Timber Cove resident Col. John Glenn, the first American astronaut to orbit the Earth. The pool opened on June 22, 1963 with Opening Day celebrations on July 4, 1963.
Aldous Huxley was born in 1894 to a British family whose forebears included outspoken Darwin advocate Thomas Henry Huxley, his grandfather, and poet Matthew Arnold, his great-uncle. Huxley's career as a writer began in the 1920s with a sequence of novels and short story collections which lampooned the pretensions of post-World War I society. Interested in a variety of literary forms, Huxley also published books of essays, travel observations, and poetry. In 1928, he published the novel Point Counter Point, an ambitious work with a vast cast of characters which explored multiple points of view and the multiple aspects of experience.
In 1932, Huxley released the book which would become his most famous, Brave New World. In this cautionary tale of the future, babies are bred in test tubes to become workers who, as adults, are kept docile through games, “sleep teaching,” and the calming drug “soma.” The book's success brought him celebrity and fortune, but the novels which followed suffered from Huxley's inclusion of his own instructive rhetoric. Still as prolific as ever, he continued to churn out additional stories, essays, plays, literary criticism and, following his 1937 move to Southern California, several Hollywood screenplays.
In the final ten years of his life, Huxley experimented with LSD, writing about his experiences with the hallucinogen in his book The Doors of Perception. He died in 1963.
From its inception as a four-year institution in 1934 until the 1942-1943 academic year, the University of Houston consisted of the General College and the Junior College. All areas of academic study at the upper levels were pursued within the General College, while the Junior College provided more vocational and technical training. With the 1942-44 catalog, a new organizational plan was announced. This plan divided the General College into seven schools, based primarily on different academic disciplines.
The College of Arts and Sciences, created in 1942, consisted of three divisions: the Division of Cultural Arts, the Division of Sciences, and the Division of Social Sciences. The departments within the College of Arts and Sciences were as varied as the divisions, with students able to pursue both Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees in areas ranging from drama and music to mathematics and physics.
The College of Arts and Sciences continued as the central instructional unit of the University of Houston through the mid-1970s. The curricula encouraged students to explore many fields of intellectual interest, while examining one field in depth. In late 1972, President Philip Hoffman appointed a committee to investigate a possible reorganization of the university's administration. One area of investigation was the possible division of the College of Arts and Sciences.
The study found that the areas of responsibility of the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences were "too broad," making the "offering of dynamic leadership to the college almost impossible because of the numerous departments and special programs, which report to this office." With the recommendations of the study group and President Hoffman, the Board of Regents authorized the reorganization of the College of Arts and Sciences. In 1975 the College of Arts and Sciences was divided into three colleges: the College of Humanities and Fine Arts, the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, and the College of Social Sciences.
Dr. Ronald Pastrana, a retired NASA scientist, first initiated the Scientist in Residence Program at Mill Road Intermediate School in 2006 as a two-day enrichment program for fourth graders. In 2008, Dr. Pastrana moved the program to first and fourth graders at Chancellor Livingston Elementary School, where it subsequently grew into an all-grades week-long event augmenting their standard science curriculum.
The program provides students with background information and hands-on experiences to discuss lunar geology, Earth and Life Sciences, as well as other topics related to the U.S. Space Program. The impact of the program on the student's interests may be clearly seen through the many samples of student essay letters, images, and research papers submitted by following the program.
Materials were donated to the UHCL Archives with the hopes that Education majors would be interested in researching programs utilizing primary documents on space science in elementary schools.
The donated materials were used by UHCL Archives for a Neumann Library exhibit during Fall 2010, as part of the 2009 Lunar Landing anniversary exhibit and 2010 Archives Month exhibit at the Clear Lake City-County Freeman Branch Library exhibit.
Colonel James Morgan (1787-1866) was an early Texas settler, merchant, and land speculator. Having started out in Texas with a mercantile business, in 1835 Morgan became a real estate agent for the New Washington Association and began to purchase large tracts of land for development.
During the Texas Revolution, Morgan was the commander at Galveston Island, where he was in charge of the 1836 fortification of the island. President Sam Houston later charged him with mismanaging this project.
After the revolution, Morgan turned his interests to improving what would eventually become the Houston Ship Channel, and experimenting with cattle breeds and crop cultivation.
In December 1976, President Philip Hoffman began a project that he was particularly determined to bring to a successful conclusion. On December 7, at the Houston Country Club, he announced the 50th Anniversary of the University, with events to run throughout 1977. At that kickoff event, Hoffman also announced the UH 50 Fund, a fundraising campaign with the goal of raising between $23.5 and $32.5 million for priority needs by 1981. During this period the Cullen Foundation pledged $3 million to endow nine distinguished professorships contingent upon the university raising another $6 million in matching funds. The university selected four topical areas for the yearlong celebration: resources, technologies, lifestyles, and environments. These topics were interwoven in lectures and seminars throughout the year.
The events of the half-century observance were varied and included: the French government sending an arts festival; a series of noted speakers, seminars, and conferences; a German Expressionist art exhibition and lectures; a symposium in conjunction with the dedication of the new College of Optometry; and the dedication of the Freeman Wing of the library.
Harold Joseph "Joe" McMann, Jr. received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1959. He worked as a staff application engineer at Liquid Carbonic Corporation, a division of General Dynamics, until he joined NASA as an aerospace technologist for Materials, Life Systems Division, Space Task Group, in 1961. McCann held increasingly responsible positions until he became the manager of the EVA Management Office, EVA and Crew Equipment Office in 1996. He was a member of the EVA Hardware Development Group, EVA Project Office, before leaving NASA in 1996. On leaving NASA, McMann took a position as an engineer at the Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation, a position that he held in 2002. McMann received 15 awards for his work, including the MSC Outstanding Performance Award, Project Mercury; the Victor A. Prather Award; and the JSC Group Achievement Award, Manned Maneuvering Unit Thermal/Vacuum Test Support Team, JSC NITROX Development and Support Team for STS-61.
Martin L. Calk was a member of the 23rd Alabama Volunteer Infantry Regiment of the Confederate Army. This regiment was formed under the command of Colonel Franklin K. Beck on November 19, 1861 at Camp Wilcox, near Montgomery, Alabama. M.L. Calk served with the 23rd Alabama Volunteer Infantry Regiment in both the Kentucky (September - October 1862) and Vicksburg (December 1862 - July 1863) Campaigns.
Hershell Howard Nixon was born near Duncan, Oklahoma on August 4, 1923. His family moved to California during the Dust Bowl and settled near Bakersfield. During World War II, Nixon served in the United States Navy, after the war, he attended the University of Southern California, from which he received a Bachelor of Science degree in 1950. Nixon worked as an exploration petroleum geologist and was a member of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, the American Professional Geological Scientists, the Houston Geological Society, the West Texas Geological Society, and the Rocky Mountain Association of Geologists. In 1949, Nixon married Joan Lowery, and he supported her writing career in addition to co-authoring several children's books on science. The couple had four children. Nixon died on March 8, 2010.
Joan Lowery Nixon was born in Los Angeles, California on February 3, 1927. She wrote more than 140 books, including one, The Other Side of Dark, which was made into a film. Nixon won four Edgar Awards from the Mystery Writers of America and is the only person to do so. In addition, she won two Golden Spur awards from the Western Writers of America. Her books were published in 20 languages. Nixon died on June 28, 2003.
Dr. Patrick James Nicholson (1921-1999) is best known as the author of In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston. He received a BA from Rice University in 1942, an MBA from Harvard in 1946, and a Ph.D., from the University of Houston in 1959. Nicholson came to the University of Houston as a lecturer in Management in 1951. He continued until 1956, when he became Executive Director of Development and Assistant to the President. He was named Vice President of University Development in 1957, a position he maintained until his retirement in August of 1981. Honorary positions Nicholson held included Past President of the American College Public Relations Association; Past President of the Houston Council on World Affairs; Past President of the Institute of Ophthalmology, Texas Medical Center; and N.Y. Academy of Sciences. He was a member of Phi Kappa Phi; Phi Eta Sigma; Sigma Xi; and Omicron Delta Kappa.
Mary Blount Christian was born on February 20, 1933 in Houston. She received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Houston in 1954 and worked at the Houston Post as a reporter and a columnist from 1953 to 1957. From 1959, Christian taught writing to children and adults at Houston Community College, Rice University, and the Institute of Children's Literature. She created and moderated "Children's Bookshelf" on PBS-TV and is a member of the Society of Children's Book Writers, the Mystery Writers of America, the Authors Guild, and the Authors League of America. Christian is married to George L. Christian, Jr., a book review editor, and the couple has three children.
Historical Note
The University of Houston was founded in 1927 as the Houston Junior College, operated by the Houston Independent School District. In 1934, the school was renamed the University of Houston and became a four-year college. In 1940, the first graduate degrees were awarded in the field of education. In 1945, the University became a separate, private entity with its own Board of Regents, chaired by Hugh Roy Cullen. Throughout this period E. E. Oberholtzer was the president of the University.
In 1950, W. W. Kemmerer became acting president of the University. Kemmerer served as president from 1952 to 1953, when C. F. McElhinney became acting president. General A. D. Bruce, who served as president until 1956 when he became chancellor of the University, followed him in 1954. Clanton W. Williams became president in 1956. In 1961, Philip G. Hoffman became president of the University of Houston. He held this position until 1977, when he became president of the UH System.
Biographical Notes
Edison E. Oberholtzer
From 1924-1927 Oberholtzer served as Superintendent of the Houston Independent School District. With the formation of the Houston Junior College in 1927 he was named president. He remained president through the change from a two-year to a four-year institution in 1934 and continued until shortly before his death in 1950.
Walter W. Kemmerer
In 1929 Oberholtzer offered Kemmerer the position of Director of Curriculum and Research with Houston Independent School District. He remained in this position until June 1934, when he was appointed vice-president of the University of Houston. In October 1943, the position of "vice-president" was eliminated and Kemmerer's title was changed to Comptroller and Director of Curriculum. In spring 1944 Oberholtzer created the office and title "Assistant to the President" for Kemmerer. With Oberholtzer's retirement in 1950 Kemmerer became first acting president on June 1, 1950 and president on April 15, 1952. He was asked to resign on April 27, 1953.
Charles Flemming McElhinney
Charles Flemming McElhinney (commonly known as C. F. McElhinney or "Mr. Mac") moved to Houston in 1934, taking the position of Assistant Director of Curriculum and Research for the Houston Independent School District from 1934-1939. He became Director of Research from 1939-1945, and business manager for the University of Houston which, until 1945, was operated by the Houston Independent School District. During this time he also served as a staff assistant to E. E. Oberholtzer. From 1945 until his retirement in 1973, McElhinney served as the business manager of the university. He also served as interim president of the University from 1953-1954, a position he agreed to serve in to allow time for the Board of Regents to select a new President.
Andrew Davis Bruce
General Andrew Davis (A.D.) Bruce was the third president and the first chancellor of the University of Houston. Bruce became president of the university on September 1, 1954 and chancellor in December 1956. He retired from the university after the 1960-61 academic year. In 1957 Bruce organized a Board of Governors, composed of the regents of the university and prominent Houstonians. In November 1959 the governing board sought state support for the University, which had grown rapidly in the preceding years. Bruce was one of the first to advocate tax support for the University of Houston.
Clanton W. Williams
Clanton Ware Williams served as the fourth president of the University of Houston from 1956-1960. Williams joined the University of Houston as Vice-President for Academic Affairs in January 1955. He was named president of the University at the December 10, 1956 meeting of the Board of Regents. At this same meeting, A.D. Bruce was named chancellor and chief executive officer of the university. With this new reporting structure, the president was entrusted with the internal affairs while the chancellor was charged with both external relationships and overall responsibility. From August 11, 1960 to September 1, 1961, Williams retained the title of president, but was on a leave of absence.
Philip G. Hoffman
In 1957 Philip Guthrie Hoffman came to the University of Houston as Vice President and Dean of Faculties. He was appointed as the fifth president of the University of Houston in September 1961, and was officially inaugurated on April 27, 1962. Hoffman served as president until 1977, when he became president of the University of Houston System. He remained in this position until his retirement in 1979. Some of the advances made during Hoffman's tenure include reorganization and augmentation of administrative staff, including shifts within the ranks of the academic deans; conducting an institution-wide self-study; completing a new master plan for campus development; and taking first steps toward the formation of a University of Houston System.
The UHCL Communications Office is the Public Relations arm of the University of Houston Clear Lake.
John R. Garman was born in Oak Park, Illinois on September 11, 1944. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Engineering Physics from the University of Michigan in 1966. That same year, Garman began working for the Johnson Space Center as Director of Flight Operations for the Mission Planning and Analysis Division of the Flight Support Division. He obtained progressively more responsible positions until he was appointed Deputy Director of the Mission Support Directorate in 1986. The following year, Garman went to Washington, D.C. as Director of Information Systems Services at the Space Station Program Office. On returning to the Johnson Space Center in 1988, Garman held a variety of positions, culminating in Chief Information Officer in 1994. He left NASA in 2000 and joined OAO Corporation in Greenbelt, Maryland. Lockheed Martin Information Technology of Seabrook, Maryland bought out OAO, and Garman became Technical Director, NASA Services for Lockheed Martin Information Technology. In 2010, Garman retired and became a consultant in software engineering and information technology. He is married to the former Susan Hallmark of Los Angeles, California and has two daughters.
W.D. Lowther was a member of Company D, 2nd Texas Brigade, 17th Consolidated Regiment in the Confederate Army. This company was attached to Fluornoy's Regiment sometime in 1863, and approximately 25 men from Walker's division were with them, as well.
The University of Houston played an important part in the United States' efforts during the Second World War. Among its many contributions, the institution housed the first Naval School established in a college, training more than five thousand Navy personnel and several hundred Army and Navy pilots. Following the war, many of the nation's servicemen and women returned to colleges and universities to take advantage of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 - better known as the GI Bill of Rights. Under the GI Bill, veterans received up to $500 a year from the government to cover tuition and fees as well as a monthly stipend.
Just as the University of Houston contributed to the war effort, following the war it contributed to the education of thousands of returning veterans. Dr. W.W. Kemmerer, assistant to the university president, strongly influenced the university's successful shift from a wartime to a peacetime stance. The postwar years were an era of significant growth for the fledgling institution. Many UH students used the GI Bill to further training obtained in the military, learn a vocational trade, or pursue college degrees. Enrollment for Fall semester 1944 reached 2,720, a significant increase from the 1,104 students just a year before. By the 1947-1948 school year enrollment reached 10,882.
To aid veterans in their transition from military to student life, UH established a guidance program with Richard O. Jonas as chief counselor and Roy A. Crouch as head of the office of psychological services. In December 1944 the U.S. Veterans Administration selected the University of Houston as the site for an official VA Advisement Center, augmenting the guidance program's effectiveness. The office provided assistance in application for admission to the university and obtaining compensation through the GI Bill. A special housing bureau helped veterans and their families locate places to live. Counselors, often former members of the armed forces themselves, aided ex-soldiers with registration, career guidance, and overall readjustment to civilian life.
Winfield Scott was born on June 13, 1786, near Petersburg, Virginia. After studying law at the College of William and Mary he embarked upon a military career. During the War of 1812 he was captured by the British. Following an exchange of prisoners, Scott fought again, was injured in the battle of Lundy's Lane, and emerged from the war a national hero. After the war Scott earned the reputation of a peacemaker by helping to ease the Nullification Crisis in 1832 and settling border disputes with Canada. In 1838 Scott supervised the removal of the Cherokee from Georgia and other southern states to reservations west of the Mississippi River.
Scott was appointed commanding general of the U.S. Army in 1841. During the Mexican-American War Scott commanded a seaborne invasion that led, after a string of victories, to the conquest of Mexico City in 1847. Scott was honored with an appointment to the brevet rank of lieutenant general for his service during the war. Riding an unprecedented wave of popularity, Scott won the Whig Party presidential nomination in 1852, but lost in the general election to Democrat Franklin Pierce.
When the Civil War broke out in 1861, Scott was 75 years old and still commander in chief of the U.S. Army. His proposed strategy to strangle Confederate forces, called the Anaconda Plan, was criticized sharply by many. Scott retired from military service, wrote his memoirs, traveled through Europe, and lived to see his Anaconda Plan, in its essential form, effectively employed to help bring an end to the Civil War. He died in West Point, New York, on May 29, 1866.
The University of Houston played an important part in the United States' efforts during the Second World War. Among its many contributions, the institution housed the first Naval School established in a college, training more than five thousand navy personnel and several hundred Army and Navy pilots. Following the war, many of the nations servicemen and women returned to colleges and universities to take advantage of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 - better known as the GI Bill of Rights. Under the GI Bill, veterans received up to $500 a year from the government to cover tuition and fees as well as a monthly stipend.
Just as the University of Houston contributed to the war effort, following the war it contributed to the education of thousands of returning veterans. Many UH students used the GI Bill to further training obtained in the military, learn a vocational trade, or pursue college degrees. By 1945, a steady influx of veterans created a shortage in student housing. The Board of Regents realized the university needed more housing and on November 9, 1945 allotted $194,000 for temporary quarters. A week later UH accepted a gift of three hundred trailers. The converted navy barracks and the trailers formed a nucleus of ex-servicemen's housing known as the Veterans Village. Rent ranged from $30 to $37.50 a month.
The Veterans Village became a community in itself, complete with a constitution, governing council, regular newsletter, and nursery school. A veteran's club also formed on campus and drew many of its members from those living in the Village. The Veterans Club and Veterans' Council concerned themselves with veterans rights and even petitioned Congress for an investigation into local bureau of veterans affairs in late 1945 and early 1946 when numerous UH students did not receive their disbursements. In 1956, due to deteriorating conditions, the last trailer was removed as the Veterans Village yielded to the expanding campus.
William Anton Bernrieder was born on June 22, 1900. He attended St. Joseph School in 1906, then Annunciation Church School. He then attended St. Thomas College (now St. Thomas High School) after a period at St. Mary's Seminary. William Bernrieder completed three years of law school at Houston Law School.
In 1923, William Bernrieder began six years of service to Oscar Holcombe, the mayor of Houston. During this time he began his work toward having a ship in the U.S. Navy named after Houston. In 1927 he was appointed to the Cruiser Houston Committee, which coordinated the drive towards obtaining a cruiser named "Houston." Thousands of letters and telegrams were sent to Washington as part of the crusade, which was successful. A heavy cruiser named for the city of Houston was launched on Sept. 7, 1927. Once Bernrieder and the other members of the committee had succeeded in having a ship named for the city, the committee worked toward supporting the ship and its crew through gifts and other means.
From 1930 to 1933 Bernrieder served as the assistant to Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd. As part of his duties, he accompanied Byrd on a nationwide speaking tour. During this period, however, Bernrieder paid careful attention to the Cruiser Houston and continued to be involved in supporting the vessel.
Bernrieder was also involved in politics, serving as Executive Secretary for local arrangements for the National Democratic Convention, held in Houston in 1928. He was also involved in arrangements for President Franklin Roosevelt's trip to Houston in 1936.
Receiving his commission in 1926, Bernrieder served for 22 years in the Naval Reserve. He spent five years on active duty with the Navy during World War II, serving on the staffs of five admirals.
Following World War II Bernrieder was involved in the real estate business in Houston, although he continued his interest in the history of the USS Houston (CA-30), which had been lost in the Battle of Sunda Strait on Feb. 28/March 1, 1942. Bernrieder collected information related to the history of the ship as well as efforts to retrieve items from the sunken vessel.
Bernrieder died on October 18, 1993.
Producer and director Cheryl Crawford was born Sept. 24, 1902 in Akron, Ohio to Louella E. (Parker) and Robert K. Crawford. Crawford died on Oct. 7, 1986 in New York City.
Although involved in at least one high school dramatic production, Crawford began her formal acting career while at Smith College, when she became involved with Smith College Dramatic Association. While a student, she produced Shakuntala, a Native American drama. During the summer of 1924 Crawford was associated with the Provincetown Players of Cape Cod. In 1925 she graduated from Smith College, cum laude.
Following graduation, Crawford attended a school managed by the Theatre Guild in New York City. She worked with the Theatre Guild until 1930, working first as a secretary and a third assistant manager. Later she worked as a casting director and general assistant on Theatre Guild productions.
In 1930 Crawford left the Theatre Guild to form the Group Theatre, sharing the responsibilities as director of the group with Harold Clurman and Lee Strasberg. During this period she directed Big Night (1933), Till the Day I Die (1935), and Weep for the Virgins (1935) as well as assisting with the direction of the first production by the Group Theatre, The House of Connelly (1931). She left the Group Theatre in 1937 to begin directing on her own.
Between 1937 and her death in 1986 Crawford was involved in the production of more than 100 shows. From 1937 through 1945 Crawford worked primarily on Broadway. While working at the Maplewood Theatre in New Jersey, 1940-1942, she produced different shows on a weekly basis and worked with such stars as Tallulah Bankhead, Ingrid Bergman, Gloria Swanson in productions such as The Time of Your Life and Charley's Aunt.
In 1946 Crawford formed the American Repertory Theatre with Eva Le Gallienne and Margaret Webster. In 1947 Crawford united with Robert Lewis and Elia Kazan to form the Actors Studio. Crawford served as both a member of the board of directors and as an executive producer during the Actors Studio Theatre, which ran during 1963 and 1964.
Crawford was active as a producer for fifty-five years, co-producing So Long on Lonely Street in 1986. During that time she produced musicals such as Brigadoon, Porgy and Bess, Paint Your Wagon, and Celebration. Crawford also produced four Tennessee Williams plays, among them Sweet Bird of Youth, in which Paul Newman starred, and Period of Adjustment. Some of the highlights from productions during the last decades of her life include Yentl, Mother Courage and Her Children, and Do You Turn Somersaults.
Crawford's awards include an honorary Doctor of Literature from Smith College, awarded in 1962, and an Antoinette Perry (Tony) Award in 1951 for Tennessee William's The Rose Tattoo. She was named Woman of the Year in 1959. In 1964 she was awarded an Achievement Medal from Brandeis University.
Dr. David Ashley White is currently the Director of the Moores School of Music at the University of Houston, where he is also professor of composition and theory. He was born on December 11, 1944 in San Antonio, Texas. Dr. White began his musical education at Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas earning an Associate of Arts in 1966. He then transferred to the University of Houston in 1966 to pursue an undergraduate degree in oboe performance, which he earned in 1970; he finished a Master's degree in Composition at the University of Houston in 1974. He went on to the University of Texas at Austin and received his Doctor of Musical Arts in Composition in 1978. Dr. White has taught at the University of Houston since 1975, first as lecturer and then as instructor. He became Assistant Professor in 1978 and Associate Professor in 1983; he has been a full Professor since 1990. Dr. White was appointed Director in 1999.
David Ashley White's secular and sacred compositions are widely performed and published. Sources for his frequent commissions include Piccolo Spoleto, the Texas Chamber Orchestra, the Mirecourt Trio, the Green Lake Festival, the Concert Chorale of Houston, Del Mar College, the University of Houston, the Houston Harpsichord Society, Houston Masterworks Chorus, the Houston Chamber Choir, and a number of churches and individuals. Since 1980 he has received the ASCAP Award for music composition.
White is currently resident composer for the Houston Chapter of the American Guild of Organists (AGO). In 1991 and 1995 he was composer-in-residence at the Mississippi conference on Music and Liturgy, as he was in July 1998 at the Evergreen Church Music Conference in Colorado. White was winner of the 1993 composition contest sponsored by St. Paul United Church of Christ, Chicago (Cantata Domino for mixed voices, brass, and organ, published by Paraclete Press). He has also won first prizes from the Episcopal diocese of Alabama, the Virginia Bandmasters Association, and the Texas Federation of Music Clubs.
David Ashley White is a prolific composer whose secular publishers are E.C. Schirmer, Southern Music Company and Shawnee Press, and his sacred music publishers include Selah, Paraclete, St. James, Abingdon, Trinitas, Hinshaw, and MorningStar. His hymns are found in a number of books, including The Hymnal 1982 (Episcopal), the recently published supplement to that book, Wonder, Love, and Praise, The United Methodist Hymnal, Japan's Hymnal for the United Church of Christ, and Great Britains' Worship Songs Ancient and Modern. A collection of his hymns, Sing My Soul: David Ashley White Hymnal,
was published in 1996 by Selah Publishing Co.
William Wilberforce Edgerton was born August 4, 1845 in Waverly, New York to Dorothy Doud and John Leffingwell Edgerton. He was the third of four children, two older sisters and one younger brother. At the age of twelve he left home to live on his own due to the break-up of his family. His father was a traveling lecturer and teacher and was away much of the time. His younger brother lived with his sister Martha and her husband, and his mother moved in with friends in Sparta, Wisconsin, during the Civil War.
Edgerton survived on his own by his wits and succession of small jobs. He spent some time "peddling" but found it a poor way to make a living. He tried harness making, bar tending, and eventually even spent some time working at a race track. By the age of seventeen he found himself working as a blacksmith's apprentice. After a couple of setbacks of the Union forces and a major campaign for new recruits by President Lincoln, Edgerton decided to join the Union Army, and did so in the early part of 1862. He remained at the rank of private throughout the war, and received an honorable discharge on June 18, 1865.
Following his discharge, Edgerton opened a shoe store in Factoryville, New York. The shoe business failed the following year and he moved to Wisconsin. He entered Rush Medical School in Chicago and graduated fourth in his class in 1872. He established a practice in Fort Scott, Kansas for a brief time and then decided to become a country doctor in Wheeling, Missouri. He was married in 1876 and had three children.
After a series of personal tragedies and illnesses, he abandoned his medical practice and bought a general merchandise store in Wheeling, Missouri. He operated it profitably until 1889, at which time he became the president of the local bank. He also later served as Mayor of Wheeling. William Wilberforce Edgerton died on November 11, 1931.
Source
Brief unpublished fifteen page biography with collection file.
Ima Hogg, daughter of Governor James Stephen Hogg, was born in Mineola, Texas, on July 10, 1882. After graduating from the University of Texas, between 1901 and 1909 she studied music in New York, Berlin, and Vienna. She then moved to Houston, where she gave piano lessons to a select group of pupils and helped found the Houston Symphony Orchestra. She served as the first vice president of the Houston Symphony Society and became president in 1917. Ima Hogg was also involved in founding the Houston Child Guidance Center and the Hogg Foundation for Mental Hygiene. She was involved in the Philosophical Society of Texas, the Texas State Historical Survey Committee, and the Academy of Texas. She received numerous awards and honors for her philanthropic and cultural contributions to the state of Texas. On August 19, 1975, at the age of 93, Ima Hogg died of complications from a traffic accident while she was vacationing in London.
The Houston Symphony Orchestra began when Ima Hogg sponsored a concert on June 21, 1913. Originally the orchestra was an ensemble of 33 part-time musicians with a $2,500 budget. The Houston Symphony enjoyed steady artistic growth under the direction of strong conductors, including Ernst Hoffmann (1936-47), Efrem Kurtz (1948-54), Ferenc Fricsay (1954), Leopold Stokowski (1955-61), Sir John Barbirolli (1961-67), Andre Previn (1967-69), Lawrence Foster (1971-78), Sergiu Comissiona (1979-88), and Christoph Eschenbach (1988-1999). After decades in City Auditorium or the Music Hall, the HSO moved into the visually and acoustically fine Jesse H. Jones Hall for the Performing Arts in 1966. In the years since its beginning, the orchestra has hired long-term professional musicians, played classical, pops, holiday, children's, and free concerts, offered education programs and young artist competitions, commissioned works, made recordings, broadcast concerts, and toured the United States, Europe, and Asia. During the 1998-1999 season, the orchestra consisted of 97 full-time musicians supported by a professional staff with a $18.4 million budget.
Vassar Miller
Vassar Miller was born in Houston in 1924, the daughter of a prominent architect. She began writing as a child, composing on a typewriter due to the cerebral palsy which affected her speech and movement. She attended the University of Houston, receiving her B.A. and M.A. in English.
In 1956, Miller published her first volume of poetry, Adam's Footprint. Her poems, most of which dealt with either her strong religious faith or her experiences as a person with a disability, were widely praised for their rigorous formality, clarity, and emotional impact. In 1961 Miller was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for her collection Wage War on Silence. Over the course of a literary career which spanned almost forty years, Miller published ten volumes of poetry in all. An outspoken advocate for the rights and dignity of the handicapped, Miller also edited a collection of poetry and short stories about persons with disabilities titled Despite This Flesh.
Miller received many awards and accolades for her poetry in her home state. Three of her books won the annual poetry prize of the Texas Institute of Letters. In 1982 and 1988 Miller was named Poet Laureate of Texas, and in 1997 she was named to the Texas Women's Hall of Fame by the Governor's Commission for Women.
Vassar Miller died in 1998.
Bruce Kellner
Bruce Kellner is Emeritus Professor of English at Millersville University, near Lancaster, Pennsylvania. He is the author/editor of over a dozen books on literature and several plays. His play Swimming on Concrete, which was based on the writings of Vassar Miller, was produced in February 2000 at the Theater of the Seventh Sister in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Kellner met Vassar Miller in 1974, when he arranged a poetry reading of her work at Millersville. That led to several other readings on various college and university campuses and at the 1978 American Medical Association conference. Kellner and Miller enjoyed a lengthy correspondence, in which Miller offered rare insights into her work, and an intimate friendship.
Fritz Reuter Leiber, Jr. was born in Chicago on December 24, 1910 to Shakespearean actors Fritz Leiber, Sr. and Virginia Bronson Leiber. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1932 with a degree in psychology and physiology, and, in 1936, married Jonquil Stephens, a British poet with similar interests in the supernatural. They had one son, Justin Leiber, in 1938. Several years after Jonquil's death in 1969, he married Margo Skinner. His employment throughout the years included editorial positions and teaching drama, but Fritz Leiber primarily supported himself with his writing.
Producing stories in the genres of fantasy, science, horror, and supernatural fiction from the mid 1930s until his death in 1992, Fritz Leiber won several prominent fantasy and science fiction awards such as the Hugo, the Nebula, and the World Fantasy Association Awards. Although he wrote numerous stories in variety of styles, Leiber is perhaps best known for the heroic Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser characters he created with his college friend, Harry Otto Fischer (1910-1986), and which he continued to embellish through a series of short stories and novels throughout his long writing career and correspondence with Fischer.
Vassar Miller was born in Houston in 1924, the daughter of a prominent architect. She began writing as a child, composing on a typewriter due to the cerebral palsy which affected her speech and movement. She attended the University of Houston, receiving her B.A. and M.A. in English.
In 1956, Miller published her first volume of poetry, Adam's Footprint. Her poems, most of which dealt with either her strong religious faith or her experiences as a person with a disability, were widely praised for their rigorous formality, clarity, and emotional impact. In 1961 Miller was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize for her collection Wage War on Silence. Over the course of a literary career which spanned almost forty years, Miller published ten volumes of poetry in all. An outspoken advocate for the rights and dignity of the handicapped, Miller also edited a collection of poetry and short stories about persons with disabilities titled Despite This Flesh.
Miller received many awards and accolades for her poetry in her home state. Three of her books won the annual poetry prize of the Texas Institute of Letters. In 1982 and 1988 Miller was named Poet Laureate of Texas, and in 1997 she was named to the Texas Women's Hall of Fame by the Governor's Commission for Women.
Vassar Miller died in 1998.
Major Works:
If I Had Wheels or Love. Dallas, Tex.: Southern Methodist University Press, 1991.
(Editor). Despite This Flesh. Austin, Tex.: University of Texas Press, 1985.
Struggling to Swim on Concrete. New Orleans, La.: New Orleans Poetry Journal Press, 1984.
Selected and New Poems, 1950-1980. Austin, Tex.: Latitudes Press, 1981.
Approaching Nada. Houston, Tex.: Wings Press, 1977.
Small Change. Houston, Tex.: Wings Press, 1976.
If I Could Sleep Deeply Enough. New York: Liveright, 1974.
Onions and Roses. Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1968.
My Bones Being Wiser. Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1963.
Wage War on Silence. Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1960.
Adam's Footprint. New Orleans, La.: New Orleans Poetry Journal, 1956.
Tatiana Semenova was born in St. Petersburg, Russia on July 17, 1920. She moved with her family to Paris when she was five. At the age of seven she began studying at the dancing school of Matilda Kchessinska, a legendary Russian ballerina and wife of Grand Duke Andrei of Russia.
Madame Semenova made her stage debut when she was eleven with a Russian opera company formed in London by Sir Thomas Beecham. The following year she began her formal dance career as a member of the Col. Vassili de Basil's famed Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, touring the United States and South America. In 1937 Semenova joined the Paris Opera Ballet as premiere danseuse starring in stage entertainments with Lucien Boyer, Sascha Guitry, Maurice Chevalier and Charles Trenet.
During World War II, in coordination with the United Service Organizations (USO), Semonova formed a group called the Foxhole Ballet to tour Europe and Africa. While performing in Rome on a bomb damaged stage her leg went through a weak board; she severed the cartilage in her left knee and suffered a compound fracture in her right arm. The accident ended her dancing career.
In early 1946 Semenova returned to America and began her teaching career at the School of Dance Arts, Carnegie Hall, in New York City. Backed by a former USO contact, she formed American Youth Ballet in 1950 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. In 1954, Semonova brought the American Youth Ballet to Houston. The following year, the newly formed Houston Foundation for Ballet invited her to form the Houston Ballet Academy - the precursor to the Houston Ballet. She remained director of the Academy for eleven years. Academy dancers also appeared in selected Houston Grand Opera performances.
In 1966, the Houston Ballet Academy Board of Directors pressed for a professional performing company under a new artistic director. Semonova declined an offer to continue as teacher and advisor. She resigned to form her own company, Ballet of Houston, which debuted in 1968. The company thrived through the middle 1980s. Despite increasing physical problems Semenova continued to teach privately in Houston until her death at the age of 76 on September 24, 1996. She is buried next to her mother, Olga Semenova, in the cemetery of St. Michael Island in Venice, Italy.
Richard O. Jonas (1898-1983) received a BA from the University of Texas in 1920, an MA from the University of Texas in 1923 and completed all advanced graduate work for the Ph.D., except a dissertation. Jonas was Professor of Psychology and Education and the Director of Guidance at Wichita Falls Junior College from 1922 to 1942. He came to the University of Houston in 1944 as Associate Professor of Psychology and Chief Counselor, continuing in this capacity until 1947. From 1947 to 1951, he served as Professor of Psychology and Director of Guidance and from 1951 to 1956 as Professor of Psychology and Consultant in Guidance. In 1956, Jonas became Research Professor of Psychology.
Colonel Israel Shreve was born in 1739 in New Jersey. Before rising to a position of military leadership in General George Washington's Continental Army during the American Revolution, he worked as a farmer in Gloucester County.
On October 31, 1775, Shreve was appointed Lieutenant Colonel of the Second Regiment of New Jersey troops. On November 28, 1776, he was promoted to Colonel for the reorganized line, which was now known as the Second New Jersey Regiment, Second Establishment.
The 2nd N.J. Regiment fought at the Battle of Brandywine on September 11, 1777, and at the Battle of Germantown on October 4, 1777. They also spent the cold winter of 1777, short of clothing and food supplies, with Washington's troops at Valley Forge.
On June 28, 1778, Shreve played a part in the strange events of the Battle of Monmouth. Major General Charles Lee led the advance column against the British troops, but gave his men hasty orders to retreat after being startled by a counterattack from the British. He did not give word of his decision to General Washington, who was following behind him with the main army. As an angry Washington met up with columns of confused troops falling back from the front, he pressed the approaching Colonel Israel Shreve for an explanation. "Colonel Shreve answered in a very significant manner, smiling, that he did not know, but that he had retreated by order, he did not say by whose order." Following the Battle of Monmouth, Lee was court-martialled and removed from command.
In July of 1779, Shreve and the 2nd N.J. Regiment joined Major General John Sullivan in his campaign against the Tory-allied Iroquois Indians. Shreve was appointed commander of the expedition's base at Fort Sullivan at Tioga, while General Sullivan and his troops went on a punishing spree against the Indians, burning 40 of their towns and destroying corn, vegetables, and orchards.
According to one source, Shreve was "immensely fat" and such an incompetent officer that in December of 1780 Washington declined to promote him to Brigadier General, saying, "Here I drop the curtain." Shreve retired from the army on January 1, 1781, but for inexplicable reasons remained in command through the rest of the month. In early January, troops in the Pennsylvania Line mutinied over lack of pay and other grievances. When the New Jersey Line followed suit on January 20, Shreve by all accounts botched or neglected handling the situation. At the end of January, Elias Dayton took over as Colonel.
Shreve apparently participated in the General Assembly of New Jersey following the end of his military career. In April 1783, members of the New Jersey Line requested that he represent them to the Assembly on the issue of receiving five years' full pay at the end of their service, rather than half-pay for life.
Shreve returned to farming after the war, eventually settling in the west with his wife and children. He died in 1799.
Stephen Fuller Austin was born on November 3, 1793 in Virginia to Maria and Moses Austin. He was educated in Connecticut and at Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky. He later became involved in his father's lead mining business in Missouri. Austin also studied law in New Orleans. During his time in Missouri, Austin served in the state legislature for five years.
Following his father's death in 1821, Austin took over the responsibilities of his father's land grant of 200,000 acres from the Spanish, obtaining ratification for the grant from the newly established Mexican government. Austin succeeded in settling hundreds of families in his colony, creating Anglo-Texas. Austin attempted to prevent his colony from being entangled in the constant political turmoil in Mexico during the 1820s and first years of the 1830s. Austin worked to establish formal relations with Native Americans in the area.
Unable to prevent colonists from fighting against Mexican rule, Austin participated in the Texas Revolution in 1835 as commander of the volunteer army from his colony's region. Austin also acted as a Commissioner, responsible for raising support for Texas from the United States during the Revolution. Following the Revolution, Austin was defeated in his bid for the presidency of Texas. He served as the Secretary of State under President Sam Houston, the man who had defeated him in the election. Austin died on December 27, 1836.
Sources:
Dan L. Thrapp. Encyclopedia of Frontier Biography, Vol. I. Spokane: Arthur C. Clark, Co., 1990.
The Handbook of Texas, Vol. I. Walter Prescott Webb, ed. Austin: Texas State Historical Association, 1952.
Professor Ruth Pennybacker or "Miss Pennybacker", as she preferred, joined the U.H. faculty in 1935. Her application to the university included a letter of recommendation written by the distinguished Texas historian and writer J. Frank Dobie. Pennybacker, a 1934 Vassar graduate, went to work in the newly formed English Department at the University of Houston where she taught freshman composition and creative writing. A driving force in the creation of the U.H. creative writing program, Pennybacker also founded the Harvest, a campus publication for students, poets, and creative writers.
Minnie Fisher Cunningham, woman suffrage leader and leading liberal Democrat, the daughter of Horatio White and Sallie Comer (Abercrombie) Fisher, was born on March 19, 1882, on Fisher Farms, near New Waverly, Texas. Her father was a prominent planter who served in the House of Representatives of the Seventh Texas Legislature in 1857-58. He introduced her to politics by taking her to political meetings at Huntsville. After having been educated by her mother, Minnie passed a state examination to earn a teaching certificate when she was sixteen. She taught for a year before enrolling in the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston. In 1901 she became one of the first women to receive a degree in pharmacy in Texas; she worked as a pharmacist in Huntsville for a year, but she later said that inequity in pay "made a suffragette out of me." In 1902 she married Beverly Jean (Bill) Cunningham, a lawyer and insurance executive. His successful race for county attorney as a reform candidate was her first taste of the campaign trail, but the marriage was unhappy, in part because of her increasing political activity and his alcoholism.
The Cunninghams moved to Galveston in 1907. By 1910 she was elected president of the Galveston Equal Suffrage Association and toured Texas to speak for the cause. In 1915 she was elected to the first of four annual terms as president of the Texas Woman Suffrage Association (subsequently the Texas Equal Suffrage Association). The number of local auxiliaries quadrupled during her first year in office, largely because of her leadership. In 1917 she moved to Austin, opened state suffrage headquarters near the Capitol, and began a campaign that culminated in legislative approval for woman suffrage in state primary elections in 1918.
In 1919 Carrie Chapman Catt, president of the National American Woman Suffrage Association, persuaded Minnie Cunningham to lobby Congress for the Nineteenth Amendment. When the amendment finally was passed and submitted to the states for ratification, Cunningham said she "pursued governors all over the west" and urged them to ratify it. That same year, she helped organize the National League of Women Voters and became its executive secretary. Twenty years later Eleanor Roosevelt recalled that Cunningham's address at the league's second annual convention made her feel "that you had no right to be a slacker as a citizen, you had no right not to take an active part in what was happening to your country as a whole."
Minnie Cunningham was widowed in 1927 and traveled to Texas to settle her husband's estate. The following year she became the first Texas woman to run for the United States Senate. She challenged Earle B. Mayfield, the incumbent, with a platform that advocated prohibition, tariff reduction, tax reform, farm relief, flood control, cooperation with the League of Nations, and opposition to the Ku Klux Klan. She finished fifth of six in the primary, carrying only her home county, Walker. She then campaigned for Thomas T. Connally, the runner-up, who edged out Mayfield in the runoff.
From 1930 to 1939 Cunningham worked in College Station as an editor for the Texas A&M Extension Service. She returned to Washington in 1939 to work as an information specialist for the Women's Division of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt is credited with having given her the nickname by which she later became widely known, "Minnie Fish." She resigned in 1943 to protest a rule impeding the flow of information to farmers.
In 1944, at the Democratic state convention, anti-Roosevelt forces elected "uninstructed" delegates to the national convention, effectively disenfranchising the voters of Texas. Outraged, Roosevelt supporters elected their own slate of delegates at a rump convention. When a coalition of liberal Democrats failed to draft J. Frank Dobie as a candidate for governor, Cunningham ran herself. Angry that the incumbent governor, Coke Stevenson, did not take a public stand on the split, she ran an outspoken campaign, calling on Stevenson to declare his views, and prevented his leading the anti-Roosevelt delegation to the national convention. Stevenson won the primary by a landslide. Nevertheless, in a field of nine candidates, Cunningham finished second.
In 1946 she retired to Fisher Farms in New Waverly to raise cattle and pecans, but she continued to campaign for the Democratic party and organized ad hoc committees to support liberal causes. When the board of regents fired the president of the University of Texas, Homer P. Rainey, she opposed the regents' decision and supported Rainey's unsuccessful bid for the governorship. In the wake of the Supreme Court ruling in Brown vs. Board of Education she supported civil rights on her local school board. In 1952 she stumped for Adlai Stevenson for president and Ralph Yarborough for governor. Prepared to mortgage her farm to ensure the continuation of a liberal voice in Texas journalism, she played a pivotal role in founding the Texas Observer in 1954. Also in the 1950s she helped start Democrats of Texas, an organization of liberals. In 1960, at the age of seventy-eight, she managed the campaign headquarters for John F. Kennedy in New Waverly. Minnie Cunningham died on December 9, 1964, and was buried in New Waverly.
BIBLIOGRAPHY:
Minnie Fisher Cunningham Papers, Houston Metropolitan Research Center, Houston Public Library. John Carroll Eudy, "The Vote and Lone Star Women: Minnie Fisher Cunningham and the Texas Equal Suffrage Association," East Texas Historical Journal 14 (Fall 1976). Patricia B. Nieuwenhuizen, Minnie Fisher Cunningham and Jane Y. McCallum: Leaders of Texas Women (Senior thesis, University of Texas at Austin, 1982). Notable American Women: A Biographical Dictionary (4 vols., Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1971-80). Texas Observer, November 21, 1958. Vertical Files, Barker Texas History Center, University of Texas at Austin.
Patricia Ellen Cunningham
Faculty Association
The Faculty Association of the University of Houston Constitution and By - Laws, adopted
January 20, 1947 outlined the principle purposes as: to foster a bond of fellowship among its members; to promote the progress of the University of Houston; to act as a service organization and open forum, and to direct the operation of the Faculty Club. Membership was limited to full time faculty, including research faculty of the University of Houston whose duties were primarily non-administrative.
On November 19, 1962, a faculty committee concluded that the first three parts of the Faculty Association Constitution were being served by the Faculty Senate, and that the sole purpose of the Faculty Associates seemed to be; "To direct the operation of the Faculty Club." The merger Committee recommended the amalgamation of the two associations and that a committee composed of the Chairman of the two organization plus two members at large be appointed to rewrite the constitution and by laws of the new organization to be named: University of Houston Faculty Club.
Faculty Assembly
The Faculty Assembly consisted of almost 100 representatives from the institutional department and colleges, with the number of representatives varying from four to one, depending upon the student enrollment within the component involved. The Assembly had an elected president and secretary, a 14-person Faculty Council with its own Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and representative to the Executive Council; and an eight-person Steering Committee. Dr. T.C. Sinclair stated that the purpose of the Faculty Assembly would be to create a "real faculty community of scholars" and that the work of the Assembly would be carried on largely by committees.
Faculty Senate
Faculty Senate adopted its formal Constitution in May 1961, with the goal of providing
"an instrument for cooperative action in attaining such ends as the member may select." The Faculty Senate reorganized, freely, in 1962 at the beginning of the Hoffman administration and formed several new committees including a Committee on University Committees, Student Life, Educational Policy, and Faculty Affairs. The first official faculty handbook was also completed during this period. The Faculty Senate consists of 52 permanent members elected by the faculty.
Shared governance is now a major goal of the organization and is defined by the Faculty Senate as the "collective commitment of the faculty and administration at the University of Houston to work cooperatively, together with the University Constituencies, to achieve a common vision of excellence for the University.
Born in Buffalo, New York on August 25, 1918, George Fuermann moved to Texas with his family in 1923. He died in Houston, at the age of 82, on January 20, 2001. He earned a journalism degree in 1941 from Texas A & M College, where he edited the student journal, “The Battalion.” Captain Fuermann received a Bronze Star during World War II, while serving the U. S. Army as a correspondent in the European Theater.
Mr. Fuermann's “Houston Post” career spanned 49 years. He began in 1946 as a general assignment reporter. His popular daily column, based on snippets of local history, “Post Card,” ran from 1950 to 1971. He continued as Editorial Page editor from 1971 to 1983 and as “Wine Talk” columnist from 1984 to 1995, when the “Houston Post” closed its doors. From 1996 to 1999, GEorge Fuermann wrote a wine column for a publication of the Rice Epicurean Markets.
George Fuermann authored approximately ten volumes. Additionally, he wrote numerous articles, forwards and other contributing texts. Among his best known books are Houston: Land of the Big Rich, 1951; Reluctant Empire, 1957; The Face of Houston, 1963 and Houston: The Once and Future City, 1971. For a complete list of his published volumes and other works to which he made a contribution, see sub-group II, box 1, folder 1.
In addition to his writing, Mr. Fuermann, served the community as chair of the Municipal Arts Commission in 1965/66 and as a member until 1971. He also served as chair of the Houston Committee on Foreign Relations in 1977/78 and was a member of the American Bicentennial Commission. He founded two dining/social clubs, the “Seventh of April” in 1964 and “Cheap and Hungry” in 1985.
Professor Joseph M. Doggett joined the university's English Department faculty during the fall of 1954 as a Visiting Professor, becoming an Associate Professor in 1955, and a Professor in 1958. Before coming to the University of Houston, Professor Doggett served as an assistant professor at Florida State University. He was affiliated with many organizations including Torch International, the Modern Language Association, and the local chapter of the Civil War Round Table and as an active board member of the American Red Cross of Harris County.
Professor Doggett obtained a B.A., from Wofford College in 1930, an M.A., from Peabody College in 1937, and a Ph.D., from Peabody College in 1950. For further information see the U.H. Faculty Vita Records, 1969-077.
On August 16-19, 1915, Galveston Island was hit by a devastating hurricane. Damage amounted to $50 million, but there were only 275 deaths. The low loss of life is attributed to the protection of the seawall, constructed after the 1900 hurricane which did $40 million worth of damage and killed thousands of people.
The purpose of the University of Houston Chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) was to "facilitate a more effective cooperation among teachers and research scholars in the university community for the promotion of the interests of higher education and research and in general to increase the usefulness and advance the standards, ideals, and welfare of the profession."
As cited in the organization's Constitution, membership and voting was limited to members of the faculty of the University of Houston who were Active or Emeritus Members and Junior Members of the American Association of University Professors. Associate Members of the American Association of University Professors could be invited to meetings as the Executive Council deemed necessary.
Native Houstonian Bessie Griffiths was born in 1896. She studied piano with Ima Hogg, the daughter of former governer James Hogg, who gave music lessons to a select group of students before going on to become a leading local art patron. Between 1912 and 1916 Griffiths studied with various teachers in Europe. After her return to Houston, Griffiths performed with the Houston Symphony, gave recitals accompanied by her sister Florence, and taught piano at a studio that she maintained in her home. Griffiths died some time after 1971.
Leon Hale is a widely read and longtime columnist for the Houston Chronicle. He makes his home in Houston but spends much time at Winedale (near Round Top, TX) and Santa Fe, NM. Hale is a master at recounting tales of and reflections upon life and times in rural 20th Century Texas. He conveys all his subject's charm in the colloquial language, salty wit, and country humor that he uses so well. He is the father of Mark and Rebecca and the husband of Babette Fraser Hale.
Born May 30, 1921, at Stephenville, Texas, Leon Hale was reared in 22 different houses in nine different West Texas towns, from Fort Worth to Lubbock. His father was a store clerk and traveling salesman, but most of his relatives were farmers and his early background is entirely rural. Hale graduated from Eastland, Texas High School in 1939, entered Texas Tech at Lubbock and served 3 years in the U.S Army Air Forces before returning to "Tech" to take a journalism degree in 1946.
Hale began his journalism career as assistant editor for the Texas A&M University Extension Service, 1946-47, and progressed as follows: farm and ranch editor for the Houston Post, 1948-52; magazine editor for Humble Oil & Refining Co., 1953-55; "roving Texas columnist" for the Houston Post, 1956-1983; and since 1983, columnist for the Houston Chronicle. In addition, he has served as part-time instructor at Sam Houston State University, contributed to Texas Parade magazine, written free-lance articles, authored ten books and contributed to many others. Mr. Hale's awards include recognition by the Headliners Foundation of Texas and AP and UPI wire services. He also received the Jesse H. Jones Award for Fiction from the Texas Institute of Letters for one of his two novels.
Professor Joseph S. Werlin was a charter member of the University of Houston faculty, having joined the Division of Social Sciences when the University was founded in 1934. He served the University with distinction and enthusiasm for 30 years.
As a man of many scholarly interests and accomplishments, Dr. Werlin was widely known as the founder and director of the University of Houston International Studies Center, and conducted educational tours for students to Latin America and Europe for over 19 years. Dr. Werlin's efforts toward furthering knowledge and understanding of the Latin American peoples and their cultures were recognized not only in the academic world but also by the governments of both Mexico and Guatemala.
Professor John Q. Anderson was born in Wheeler County, Texas May 30, 1916. He received his A.B. from Oklahoma State University in 1939, the M.A. from Louisiana State University in 1948, and the Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in 1952. His World War II tour of duty included time spent in England, France, and Germany.
Professor Anderson held teaching positions at the University of Texas, University of North Carolina, and McNeese State College before his 1953 appointment as Instructor at Texas A & M University, where he was Assistant Professor, 1954-1956; Associate Professor, 1956-1959; Professor, 1959-1962; and Department Head, 1962-1966. In 1966 he became Professor of American literature at the University of Houston and went on disability leave May 13, 1974.
Active in professional and learned societies, he was president of the Texas Folklore Society and the American Studies Association of Texas, which named him its first Distinguished Fellow in Houston on November 16, 1974.
Professor Anderson was author of more than 70 articles and books. Some of his books included Brokenburn: The Journal of Kate Stone, 1861-1868 (1955) A Texas Surgeon in the C.S.A. (1957), Louisiana Swamp Doctor: The Life and Writings of Henry Clay Lewis (1962), Tales of Frontier Texas (1966), John C. Duval, First Texas Man of Letters (1967), With the Bark On: Popular Humor of the Old South (1967), Campaigning with Parsons' Texas Cavalry Brigade, C.S.A. (1967), Texas Folk Medicine (1970), and The Liberating Gods: Emerson on Poets and Poetry (1971).
Dr. John Q. Anderson, Professor Emeritus of English, died February 19, 1975, following a long illness.
Professor Louis Kestenberg received his A.B. degree from Rice Institute in 1930; his M.A. in German from Rice in 1933; and his Ph.D. in German History from the University of Colorado in 1943. Born in Sosnowiec, Poland in 1907, Kestenberg emigrated with his parents to Houston, Texas in 1920.
Dr. Kestenberg joined the faculty of the University of Houston in 1933 as Instructor in German; became a fulltime faculty member in 1940 and continued to teach at the University of Houston until his retirement in 1974 as Professor Emeritus of History. Professor Kestenberg also served as the Chairman of the Division of Modern Languages from 1950 to1955; he served as First Chairman of the Honors Program from 1957 to 1964; as Visiting Professor at Tulane University in 1948 and as a Fulbright Teaching Interchange Lecturer in Reutlingen, West Germany in 1956 and 1957.
He was also a member of the American Historical Association and the American Association of University Professors and belonged to Phi Kappa Phi, Delta Phi Alpha, and Phi Alpha Theta National Honor Societies. Professor Kestenberg also served as President of the Houston Chapter of the United Nations Association and as President of the Neighborhood Centers Association.
Samuel Houston, known as the Father of Texas, was born on March 2, 1793, in Virginia. His father, Samuel Houston, was a veteran of the Revolutionary War. Following his father's death in 1807, his mother, Elizabeth (Paxton) Houston moved the family to Tennessee. Sam Houston did not have a formal education, instead attending school when possible.
Sam Houston had an active political life. Trained in law, he was elected as district attorney for Nashville at the age of 25. Soon after, he was appointed adjutant general of Tennessee. He was elected to Congress from Tennessee in 1823 and again in 1825. In 1827 he was elected governor of Tennessee. He resigned from this position in 1829 and began working in Indian territory for the Cherokees. He was made a member of the Cherokee Nation.
Houston first traveled in Texas in 1832. He attended the Convention of 1833 as a delegate from Nacogdoches, although he does not appear to have been a long-term resident of the area until 1835. In November 1835 he was elected major general of the Texas Army. He signed the Texas Declaration of Independence on March 2, 1836. On April 21, 1836, he led the Texas Army to victory over the forces of General Santa Anna in the Battle of San Jacinto.
On September 5, 1836, Houston was elected President of the Republic of Texas. September 6, 1841, he was elected again to that position, having served as a representative to the Texas Congress during Mirabeau Lamar's presidency. On February 21, 1846, Houston was elected to the U. S. Senate where he served almost 14 years. In 1859 he was elected as governor of Texas. Because he did not support the dissolution of the Union, he was removed from office in 1861.
Sam Houston died on July 26, 1863, on his farm near Huntsville, Texas.
Additional Sources:
Sue Flanagan. Sam Houston's Texas. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1964.
Sam Houston. Life of General Sam Houston: A Short Biography. Austin: Pemberton Press, 1964.
John Hoyt Williams. Sam Houston: A Biography of the Father of Texas. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1993.
Mary Smith was born on July 24, 1819 in territory that later became Lawrence County, Arkansas. Her mother, a widow, moved her family to Brazoria County, Texas in 1834 when Mary was 15. The family settled on a farm in Brazoria County. Her mother married John Woodruff, a widower with several children. The Woodruff-Smith family left the farm during the Texas Revolution for safer regions farther east, returning after the Battle of San Jacinto.
Mary married Hugh McCrory on July 23, 1837 in Houston. McCrory was a soldier with Felix Huston's volunteers who became a Houston businessman following his release. McCrory died a few weeks after his marriage to Mary.
Mary met Anson Jones when he began boarding at the Woodruff house in Houston while he was serving in the Texas legislature. They planned to marry in 1838, following the end of Mary's year of mourning, but had to put aside their plans when Jones was appointed ambassador to the United States from Texas. Following his return the couple was married on May 17, 1840. Jones served as President of the Republic of Texas from 1844 to 1846, when Texas became part of the United States and James Pinkney Henderson became the first governor of the State of Texas.
Mary and Anson Jones had four children: Samuel Houston (later changed to Samuel Edward) (born [1841]), Charles Edward (born [1843]), Sallie S. (born [1845]), and Cromwell Anson (born [1849]). Jones committed suicide in January 1858, following a defeated bid to become the senator from Texas. Mary was widowed a second time at age 39.
Following Jones' death in 1858, Mary moved the family to Galveston, then to a farm in Harris County. Her husband had acquired land throughout east Texas during his life, and dealing with taxes, claims, and sales of the land occupied much of Mary's time throughout her life, as evidenced by her letters. She relied heavily on her children to assist her in her dealings with these legal and financial problems.
Samuel Edward and Charles served in the Confederate Army, where Charles died at the Battle of Shiloh. Samuel Edwards became a successful dentist. Sallie married R. G. Ashe and had at least one son, C. E. Ashe, who became a lawyer. Cromwell Anson became a lawyer and served as judge in Harris County, Texas until his death in 1888.
Mary became actively involved in the Daughters of the Republic of Texas, serving as its first president. She died on December 31, 1907. Her daughter, Sallie (Jones) Ashe, became an active member of the organization as well.
The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, is a statutory board appointed by the Governor. It is responsible for statewide planning and policy-making to assure quality and efficiency in Texas higher education. The Board's primary areas of responsibility are financial planning, senior colleges and universities, community colleges, and continuing education, health affairs, student services and campus planning.
George Kirksey, sportswriter, traveler, and baseball promoter, was born in Hillsboro, Texas on February 22, 1904. Following his graduation from high school in Hillsboro in 1923, he attended the University of Texas at Austin for two and a half years, where he studied journalism and worked part-time for local newspapers.
Kirksey became a sportswriter for United Press in 1927. During the 1930s he became a well-known figure in sports journalism, publishing hundreds of articles. In 1933 he was sent by UP to China, India, Egypt, and Italy to write a number of travel stories. He married Ethel Shutta, singer and actress, in 1940.
During World War II, Kirksey joined the Air Force as a public relations officer with the rank of First Lieutenant with the Ninth Army Air Force Division. By the end of the war, Kirksey had achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, received several commendations for his work, and had been in Egypt, Libya, England, France, and Germany.
Following his return from service, Kirksey and his wife moved to Houston. Kirksey opened a public relations firm and became involved in several local enterprises. He founded the Houston Civil War Round Table during the mid-1950s.
Kirksey's primary activity involved bringing major league baseball to Houston. In the late 1940s Kirksey began this work, which would include several different attempts to force the major leagues into allowing Houston to have a team. Kirksey was a supporter of the Continental League, which would have been a direct competitor with the American and National Leagues, and led a group of prominent Houstonians in their futile attempt to purchase the St. Louis Cardinals in 1952.
In 1957 he joined with several other men including R. E. "Bob" Smith, Roy Hofheinz, and Paul Richards to form the Houston Sports Association. This group would eventually become the owners of the Colt .45s (later known as the Houston Astros), following the expansion of the National League into Houston in 1962.
Kirksey held the position of Executive Vice-President within the Houston Sports Association until 1966. During this time, he was instrumental in the promotion of the team and the "Eighth Wonder of the World," the Astrodome. Kirksey was also involved in the various controversies surrounding the Astrodome and its baseball team. In 1965 Kirksey realized that he was being pushed from the Houston Sports Association, as Roy Hofheinz moved to take control of the organization.
On July 21, 1961 he married Billie Joyce Smith. He and Ethel Shutta Kirksey had divorced in 1957. Kirksey had no children of his own but had two step-sons from his marriage with Ethel Shutta. Kirksey and Billie Joyce (Smith) Kirksey were divorced on November 13, 1964.
After Kirksey's contract with the Houston Sports Association was denied renewal, he sold his share of the Astros to Roy Hofheinz in 1965, who later became sole owner of the team. Kirksey toyed with creating a new football team in Houston to challenge Bud Adams' Oilers, but quickly lost interest.
Kirksey became fairly wealthy from the sale of his share of the Astros, as well as the sale of his stock in KTRK, the first commercial television station in Houston. With this new-found wealth, Kirksey began traveling, primarily in Europe and the Caribbean. During this time he wrote a series of travel articles that were published in the Houston Post, and he became involved in auto racing. Kirksey spent most of his last years traveling in Western Europe. Kirksey died in France in 1971 in an automobile accident.
The Office of University Relations along with the Office of Development comprises the Division of University Advancement, which works to advance the institution both externally and internally. The Office of University Relations supports the university through the offices of internal and external communications, publications, and marketing. The Office of External Communications generates communications pieces, such as news releases to the media, and responses to media inquiries on behalf of the university. Its goal is to ensure information about the university and its colleges is communicated accurately and timely to the public via the news media, both local and beyond. The Office of Internal Communications disseminates major university news and events to faculty, staff and students. The Office of University Marketing seeks to enhance the University of Houston's efforts to bolster the image of the university.
Alvin Sylvan Romansky was born in Houston, Texas on March 15, 1907, the only child of Joseph L. Romansky and Kate Flaxman. Following his childhood in Houston, he attended the Wharton School of Commerce and Finance at the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Texas at Austin, and the Houston Law School, where he received an LLB (Bachelor of Laws) degree in 1929.
Romansky remained in Houston to practice law. He was a member of the Texas State Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and the Commercial Law League of America.
In 1948, Romansky and five others chartered the Contemporary Arts Association, a non-profit organization founded to present exhibits of contemporary art to supplement the more traditional art shown at the Museum of Fine Arts. In 1949, the Association became the Contemporary Arts Museum, with its own building. Romansky served as Vice President of the Contemporary Arts Association/Museum from 1947-1952.
An art patron and collector, Romansky favored French graphics, contemporary French art, and Ashanti objects. He arranged the Rufino Tamayo exhibit and the Contemporary in Cotton exhibit at the Contemporary Arts Museum, and Ashanti Goldwrights exhibit at the University of Texas, as well as many others. He was also active in the Lithography Department of the Glassell School of Art. He donated a collection of graphics to the University of Texas, and an Alvin Romansky Print Room to the Museum of Fine Arts. Romansky was appointed a Life Trustee by the Museum of Fine Arts.
In addition, Romansky served as "Lieutenant Colonel" on the staff of Governor Miriam "Ma" Ferguson between 1933 and 1935, representing the State of Texas at official functions. He was co-founder of the Harris County Heritage Society, and drafted its original charter. He also served as a member of the Chancellor's Council of the University of Texas at Austin. Alvin Romansky was married to his wife Ethel for nineteen years. He died on March 14, 1994.
Sources: Contemporary Arts Museum. Handbook of Texas Online.
http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/ (3 May 2001).
Who's Who in American Art. 11th edition. New York: R.R. Bowker Co., 1973.
1994. Deaths. Houston Chronicle. 15 March (B).
The Battle of San Jacinto was the final military engagement of the Texas Revolution. Mexican troops, under the command of General Santa Anna, had overextended themselves while following the Texian forces that were retreating from earlier defeats. The two armies were camped within a mile of each other near Harrisburg, Texas.
On the afternoon of April 21, the outnumbered Texans, led by Sam Houston, staged a surprise attack and routed the Mexican forces within twenty minutes. General Santa Anna escaped initially, only to be discovered later disguised as a Mexican soldier.
Due to the events at the Battle of San Jacinto, the Republic of Texas gained its freedom from Mexico, and remained independent until 1845, when it was annexed to the United States.
Charles Tellus Townsend was a local police officer who captured photographs of the aftermath of the Texas City Disaster in 1947.
One of the worst disasters in Texas history occurred on April 16, 1947, when the ship SS Grandcamp exploded at 9:12 A.M. at the docks in Texas City. The French-owned vessel, carrying explosive ammonium nitrate caught fire early in the morning, and while attempts were being made to extinguish the fire, the ship exploded. The entire dock area was destroyed, along with the nearby Monsanto Chemical Company, other smaller companies, grain warehouses, and numerous oil and chemical storage tanks. Smaller explosions and fires were ignited, by flying debris, along the industrial area and also throughout the city. Fragments of iron, parts of the ship's cargo, and dock equipment were hurled into businesses, houses, and public buildings. A fifteen-foot tidal wave caused by the force swept the dock area. The concussion of the explosion, felt as far away as Port Arthur, damaged or destroyed at least 1,000 residences and buildings throughout Texas City. The ship SS High Flyer, in dock for repairs and also carrying ammonium nitrate, was ignited by the first explosion; it was towed 100 feet from the docks before it exploded about sixteen hours later, at 1:10 A.M. on April 17. The first explosion had killed twenty-six Texas City firemen and destroyed all of the city's fire-fighting equipment, including four trucks, leaving the city helpless in the wake of the second explosion. Probably the exact number of people killed will never be known, although the ship's anchor monument records 576 persons known dead, 398 of whom were identified, and 178 listed as missing.
Donald Barthelme, Sr. was a prominent Houston architect and professor at the University of Houston and Rice University. He was the first Houston architect to attain international recognition, and during the 1950s was one of the city’s best known architects. His career was notable because he combined a distinguished architectural practice with an intense commitment to architectural education.
Barthelme was born in Galveston, Texas on August 4, 1907. He attended the Rice Institute in Houston for two years before transferring in 1926 to the University of Pennsylvania, where he studied under the French master Paul Philippe Cret. He graduated in 1930, winning the Arthur Spayd Brook Bronze Medal for Design. After graduation he worked first in Cret’s office and then in the Philadelphia firm of Zantzinger, Borie, and Medary.
The Great Depression forced Barthelme to return to Texas late in 1932. He practiced on his own in Galveston for several years, surviving on small commissions. In 1935 he moved to Houston to work for noted architect John F. Staub, but stayed only a few months before being called to Dallas to work on the Texas Centennial Exposition. There he was the lead designer of the Hall of State, the centerpiece of the exposition and today considered a masterpiece of the Art Deco style. In 1937 he returned to Staub’s office in Houston, where he remained for two years before leaving to open his own practice. In the early 1940s he did war-related work, first as a designer on the Avion Village Housing Project near Dallas, and later as supervising architect for the Big Spring Air Base in West Texas and defense housing projects in Galveston and Sweeny, Texas.
Barthelme’s career began in earnest in 1942, with the first of many projects for the West Columbia Independent School District in Brazoria County, Texas. Over the next two decades his school designs earned national and international awards and appeared in numerous publications. His best known project, and arguably his best work, was the West Columbia Elementary School (1951). He designed other elementary schools in West Columbia and Sweeny, Texas; additions to the high schools in West Columbia and Sweeny; and finally, the West Columbia Senior High School (1963). During the 1950s he was acknowledged as an expert on the design of schools, and wrote and lectured extensively on the subject. This led to his election in 1955 as a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects, an honor accorded architects who make a significant contribution to the advancement of architecture.
Although he retired from active practice in 1963, he continued to participate in competitions and in 1964 was one of seven finalists in the competition to design the headquarters building for the American Institute of Architects in Washington, D.C. His other works include the Barthelme Residence (1941), St. Rose of Lima Church and School (1948), the Adams Petroleum Center (1957), and Highland Heights Elementary School (1959) in Houston. St. Rose of Lima was the first modernist Catholic church in Houston, and was the first Houston building to win an award of merit from the A.I.A.
Barthelme began his other major professional endeavor in 1946, when he joined the faculty of the Architecture Department at the University of Houston. He helped shape the program in its early years and was an influential member of the faculty until his retirement in 1973. He also served as William Ward Watkin Professor and chairman of the Architecture Department at Rice University from 1959 to 1961. He is remembered at both institutions for his rigorous standards and for his efforts to redesign the curriculum to integrate all parts of the architectural education process. He also was a visiting professor at the University of Pennsylvania and Tulane University.
In retirement Barthelme turned to writing, as he recorded ideas developed over a lifetime of practice and teaching. In the late 1970s he began writing a book promoting his philosophy that architects should be more concerned with the user’s experience of architecture than with its purely formal aspects. Together with his voluminous lecture notes, the partial manuscript and related materials in the collection form a body of writing that captures the humanist values he tried to instill in his students.
Barthelme married Helen Bechtold (1907–1995) of Philadelphia on June 21, 1930. From 1931 to 1947 the couple had five children: Donald, Joan, Peter, Frederick, and Steven. Donald (1931–1989) achieved fame as a writer and novelist and from 1980 to 1989 was a professor at the University of Houston, where he helped establish the reputation of the University’s acclaimed Creative Writing Program. The Donald Barthelme Literary Papers are housed in a separate collection in the University of Houston Libraries’ Department of Special Collections. Also accomplished writers, Frederick and Steven Barthelme teach Creative Writing at the University of Southern Mississippi on the faculty of the university’s Center for Writers. Peter has also published several novels, while Joan served for many years as an executive with a large Houston oil company.
Donald Barthelme, Sr. died on July 16, 1996.
Sources:
Stephen Fox, Donald Barthelme, 1907-1996, Cite 35 (Fall 1996): 8-11.
Yolita Schmidt, Donald Barthelme,Texas Architect (Nov.-Dec. 1989): 44.
In 1988, Heart's Invention: On the Poetry of Vassar Miller was published as volume 5 in the American Poets Profile Series by Ford-Brown & Co. Heart’s Invention was the first book-length critical study to focus on the work of Texas poet Vassar Miller, and included a preface from novelist Larry McMurtry. The book was edited by Steven Ford Brown.
Steven Ford Brown is a prolific editor and translator. His recent books include Astonishing World: The Selected Poems of Angel Gonzalez, 1956-1986 (as editor and translator) and Invited Guest: An Anthology of Twentieth-Century Southern Poetry (as co-editor). Originally from Alabama, and a resident of Houston, Texas for five years, Brown currently lives in Boston, Massachusetts.
On September 7, 1927, the U.S. Navy announced that in response to a local campaign, a new heavy cruiser would be named for the city of Houston. The ship’s keel was laid on May 1, 1928 at the Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company. On September 7, 1929, the USS Houston (CA-30) was launched, and on June 17, 1930, she was commissioned.
In 1931, the Houston became flagship of the Asiatic Fleet. The Houston left the Asiatic in 1933 to join the Scouting Force, based in Long Beach, California. During the 1930s, avid fisherman President Franklin D. Roosevelt made four leisure cruises on the Houston. The Houston joined the Hawaiian Detachment in Pearl Harbor in November 1939, and returned to the Asiatic in March 1941.
On November 27, 1941, the USS Houston was undergoing some repairs at Cavite Naval Yard in the Philippine Islands when her captain, Albert H. Rooks, received a Navy Department warning about an impending Japanese attack on the Asiatic Fleet. The Houston
was ordered to the central Philippines. On December 8, the crew learned of the outbreak of hostilities with Japan.
In January 1942 the Houston became part of a multi-national American-British-Dutch-Australian (ABDA) force. On February 4th, a group of ABDA ships attempted to intercept a Japanese force in the Makassar Straits, but were attacked by Japanese bombers. One of the bombs destroyed the Houston's rear 8-inch gun turret, killing 48 men and injuring 20 others.
On February 27, the Houston was among a fleet of ABDA ships that engaged a Japanese task force that was advancing on eastern Java. In the eight-hour Battle of the Java Sea, the Japanese inflicted defeat upon the ABDA ships, sinking or crippling two Dutch cruisers and three destroyers. Although the Houston was hit twice by Japanese 8" shells, she and the Australian light cruiser HMAS Perth both survived the battle.
On the night of February 28, the Houston
and the Perth attempted to pass through Sunda Strait in an effort to reach the safer waters of the Indian Ocean. As they approached the entrance to the strait, they unexpectedly encountered a Japanese force that was protecting the invasion fleet. In the ensuing battle, four torpedoes struck and sunk the Perth. The Houston managed to hit three destroyers and sink a minesweeper, but was struck by four torpedoes and started to sink. Following orders to abandon ship, crew members jumped over the sides and began to swim for the distant shore of Java. The Battle of Sunda Strait and the sinking of the ship took the lives of 700 of the Houston's
1068 crew members.
When news of the ship’s sinking reached Houstonians, they raised money to build the light cruiser USS Houston (CL-81), as well as a small aircraft carrier. On Memorial Day, 1942, one thousand “Houston Volunteers” were sworn into the Navy to symbolically replace the Houston's crew, who were all presumed dead.
In Java or its surrounding waters, the Houston crew members who survived the sinking were taken prisoner by the Japanese. They were marched to the town of Serang and held there until April 1942, when most of the men were transported to "Bicycle Camp" in Batavia. There the men of the Houston were joined by troops from the 2nd Battalion, 131st Field Artillery, a National Guard unit from Texas (nicknamed the “Lost Battalion”).
In October, the majority of the POWs were taken to Moulmein, Burma, while the rest were sent to work in various camps throughout Asia. There they became slave labor for a Japanese project to build a railroad for transporting troops and supplies from Thailand to Burma. Sixty-one thousand Allied prisoners-of-war and over 200,000 Asian natives worked on the Burma-Thai Railway, which eventually stretched 250 miles between mountains, across rivers, and through jungles. The men were fed starvation rations, beaten frequently, and subject to illnesses such as beri beri, pellagra, malaria, and tropical ulcers.
Nearly 13,000 Allied POWs and 100,000 Asian natives died building the “Death Railway,” including 79 men from the Houston. Upon the railway's completion in October 1943, the surviving POWs were scattered to various camps in Singapore, Burma, Indochina, and Japan. On August 16, 1945, the POWs learned that the war was over and they were to return home.
Following the war, survivor Otto Schwarz formed the USS Houston Survivors Association, whose newsletter was named the Blue Bonnet after the original ship's newsletter. Many survivors kept in touch by attending annual reunions with their friends from the Lost Battalion. In 1981, the survivors donated a collection of archival materials and memorabilia to the UH Libraries, which built a Cruiser Houston Memorial Room to display the items. On March 21, 1981, they celebrated the launch of another ship named “Houston,” the nuclear powered submarine USS Houston (SSN-713). And in 1995, the Texas Commandery of the Naval Order of the United States dedicated a monument to the USS Houston and her crew in downtown Houston.
In 1991 the Survivors Association formed a complementary group called the Next Generation, made up of children and younger relatives of survivors. Under the direction of Next Generation members Val Roberts-Poss and Lin Drees, and co-editor Otto Schwarz, the Blue Bonnet
continues to come out four times a year. Roberts-Poss and Drees also organize an annual memorial service in Houston at the site of the downtown monument.
Chronology:
January 1, 1927 First meeting of the Cruiser Houston Committee
September 7, 1927 Navy announces that heavy cruiser will be named for Houston
May 1, 1928 Ships keel laid at Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company
September 7, 1929 USS Houston (CA-30) launched in Newport News, Virginia
June 17, 1930 Ship commissioned in the United States Navy Yard
February 22, 1931 Houston becomes flagship ofAsiatic Fleet
1933 Houston joins Scouting Force based in Long Beach, CA
July 1, 1934 First cruise by President Franklin D. Roosevelt
Oct. 3, 1935 Second Presidential Cruise
July 16, 1938 Third Presidential Cruise
February 18, 1939 Fourth Presidential Cruise
November 7, 1939 Houston in Pearl Harbor with Hawaiian Detachment
November 27, 1941 Houston ordered to central Philippines
January 15, 1942 Houston becomes part of American-British-Dutch-Australian (ABDA) force
February 4, 1942 Battle of Makassar Strait
February 27, 1942 Battle of the Java Sea
February 28-March 1, 1942 Battle of Sunda Strait and sinking of USS Houston (CA-30)
March 1942 USS Houston crew members become POWs
May 30, 1942 Thousand Houston Volunteers join Navy
June 19, 1943 USS Houston (CL-81) launched
October 1942- October 1943 Burma-Thai Railway built with POW labor
August 16, 1945 Houston crew members learn war is over
1948 Beginnings of USS Houston Survivors Association
March 21, 1981 USS Houston (SSN-713) launched
November 11, 1995 USS Houston monument dedicated
Gail Donohue Storey was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts on July 15, 1947. She earned a B.A. from Rosary College in 1969, a M.S. in Library Science from the University of Illinois in 1973, a M.A. in liberal education from John's College in 1982, and a M.A. in English and Creative Writing from the University of Houston also in 1982. Storey is the author of I Promise Not to Suffer: A Fool for Love Hikes the Pacific Crest Trail, The Lord's Motel, God's Country Club, First Poems of Gail Donohue, articles, essays, and works of short fiction.
Storey has won numerous honors and awards, including, for I Promise Not to Suffer, the National Outdoor Book Award (2013), Foreword/IndieFab Book of the Year (2013), Nautilus Silver Award (2014), Colorado Book Award (2014), Barbara Savage Award (2013), Boulder Writers' Workshop Best Memoir (2013), and finalist, Colorado Authors' League Award (2014) and Next Generation Indie Book Award (2014). God's Country Club was a Barnes & Noble Discover Great New Writers Selection (1996). She also won New Millennium Writings Honorable Mentions in Nonfiction in 2010 and 2009, the My Table Magazine Haiku Competition in 1999, the Best Fiction Award from the South Central Women's Studies Association in 1998, finalist in fiction for the Austin Writers' League Violet Crown Book Award in 1997, finalist in fiction for the PEN Texas Writing Awards in 1997, the PEN Southwest Discovery Prize, second honorable mention in 1989, finalist in 1988 and 1984, and first runner up for fiction in 1983, an honorable mention from the Cultural Arts Council of Houston in 1987, Texas Fiction Contest runner-up in 1985, first prize for fiction for the Houston Orange Show in 1985; a Yaddo fellowship in 1987 and Virginia Center for the Creative Arts fellowship in 1985, the Houston Festival Prose Award in 1983, New Poetic Drama first honorable mention in 1981, and the Elliott Coleman Award, second honorable mention in 1980.
Robert Weinberger was born and reared in New York City and began attending performing arts events and collecting programs in 1947. During this period there were special performances made available to high school students for ten cents a seat. He moved to Houston in 1965 and continued to attend cultural events here while frequently making trips to New York and abroad.
Donald Barthelme, short story writer, novelist, editor, journalist, and teacher, was born in Philadelphia on April 7, 1931. In 1933, his family moved to Houston, Texas where his father, Donald Barthelme, Sr., soon established himself as a well-known architect in the style of Mies and Corbusier. Barthelme got an early start in journalism at St. Thomas and Lamar High Schools in Houston.
In the fall of 1949, he enrolled at the University of Houston where he worked on the staff of the Daily Cougar and, as a 20-year-old sophomore journalism major, was the youngest student in the Cougar's history to hold the position of editor. Before graduating, he was drafted into the Army in February of 1953, served in Korea and worked on an Army newspaper there. When he returned to Houston in late 1954, he began working as a reporter for the Houston Post. In September of 1955, he began working for Farris Block at the University of Houston News Service, writing speeches for the President of the University, and, the next year, he succeeded Block as editor of Acta Diurna, a weekly newsletter for University of Houston faculty and staff.
The University of Houston published the first issue of Forum in September 1956. Founded by Barthelme and edited by him until 1960, this quarterly journal featured articles on a wide range of topics including philosophy, literary criticism, economics, anthropology, psychology, biology, mathematics, architecture, film, music, and theater. In 1961, Barthelme became director of the Contemporary Arts Museum in Houston but resigned the following year to move to New York and pursue his career as a writer.
Once in New York, he began to publish frequently in the New Yorker where Roger Angell became his editor and mentor. As a writer, Barthelme has been characterized as an avant-garde or postmodern stylist who relies more on language than plot or character. Upon arriving in New York, he also served as editor of Harold Rosenberg and Thomas Hess's art and literature journal, Location, for the publication's short life of two issues. He lived in New York for 18 years, occasionally teaching at the City University of New York, and then, in 1980, moved back to Houston to serve as the Director of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston. Barthelme died of throat cancer in 1989 at the age of 58.
Kenneth Patchen, a pioneer in avant-garde poetry, the picture poem, and poetry jazz, was born on December 13, 1911 in Niles, Ohio. Patchen seemed destined to a life of physical labor in the local steel mills before a scholarship to the University of Wisconsin took him away from the industrial Ohio valley and allowed him to take part in the Alexander Meikeljohn Experimental College. After completing a year at the University of Wisconsin and a few months at the Commonwealth College in Mena, Arkansas, he ended his university studies and began three years of traveling and working at odd jobs.
In December of 1933, Patchen met Miriam Oikemos, an anti-war organizer and college student from Smith College, whom he married on June 28, 1934. Miriam Patchen was an active participant in her husband's endeavors, working beside him writing bibliographies and biographical sketches under the assumed name Gail Eaton. Miriam also took care of her husband during his intervals of poor health, especially during physical the decline of his last twelve years.
Patchen's first book, Before the Brave, was published in 1936. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship for this work the same year.
Patchen sought to expand the experiential element of poetry and he made two significant contributions: the picture poem and poetry-jazz. The first contribution was a fusion of painting and poetry in which he combined fanciful, colorful images with his unusual verse in his childlike hand. This form, known as the picture poem, was released in portfolios filled with silk screen printings of Patchen's original art work.
In the late 50s, Patchen redirected his focus from the visual realm to the audio frontier. The result was poetry-jazz ,the reading of poetry against the backdrop of jazz music.Traveling to Los Angeles and San Francisco, Patchen appeared at night clubs such as the Black Hawk, made college appearances and recorded with the Allyn Ferguson Jazz Sextet.
Kenneth Patchen's work was produced amidst constant physical pain. The pain was the result of a back injury sustained when he was twenty-six. For the rest of his life he was haunted by surgeries, misdiagnoses, surgical mishaps and suffering, which often times limited his creative explorations. Fellow poets such as T.S Eliot, Thorton Wilder, Archibald MacLeish, W.H. Auden, e.e. cummings and others banded together to set up a surgery fund for Patchen in the early fifties. A surgery in 1956 gave Patchen some relief, but a surgical mistake in 1959 left him almost completely bedridden for the rest of his life. Patchen refused to take pain medication because he felt it would dull his creative powers.
Between 1936 and the conclusion of his writing career Patchen published 43 books of poetry, prose and picture poems. Although often associated with the Beat movement, he took great care to dissassociate himself from any form of labeling. He died on January 8, 1972 in Palo Alto, California, where he and Miriam had lived for the preceding twenty years.
Sources:
Smith, Larry. "Kenneth Patchen", Dictionary of Literary Biography Volume 16 Detroit, Michigan: A Bruccoli Clark Book, 1983.
Morgan, Richard G. Kenneth Patchen: A Bibliography, Mamaroneck, New York: Paul P. Appel, 1978. 3-7.
Jan de Hartog was born in Haarlem, Netherlands on April 22, 1914. His father, Arnold Hendrik, was a theologian; his mother, Lucretia Meijjes de Hartog, a scholar of medieval mysticism. He attended Amsterdam Naval College, and worked as a sailor, war correspondent and naval inspector before achieving success as an author and playwright.
Although de Hartog published five detective novels under the pseudonym F. R. Eckmar in the 1930's, his first noteworthy work was the novel Holland's Glorie (1940). Published in Dutch 10 days before the outbreak of the Second World War, the work sold over one million copies and was regarded as an essential expression of Dutch identity in wartime. The book made him a public figure in the Netherlands, and he used this platform to speak out against German occupation. In early 1942, de Hartog was forced to go into hiding and eventually fled the Netherlands under threat of arrest. After a lengthy journey across Western Europe, he arrived in England in July, 1943.
De Hartog spent the next decade in England, writing novels and plays in English. In 1946, he married Angela Priestly, daughter of English writer J.B. Priestly. One of his first English language works was the play Skipper Next to God, about a captain carrying European Jews to the United States. It debuted in London in 1945 and was later performed on Broadway. The 1951 comedy The Four Poster brought de Hartog his broadest and most enduring success. After runs in London and American repertory theater, its Broadway run, starring Hume Cronin and Jessica Tandy, earned the 1952 Tony award for Best Play. De Hartog collaborated on a French adaptation with the writer Collette, and the work was later adapted as a musical, I Do I Do!, and a television play. His novels of this period included The Lost Sea (1951), The Little Ark (1951), and A Sailor's Life (1955).
His marriage to Marjorie Mein in 1961 led de Hartog to become a Quaker. The couple lived on a 146-ton houseboat for several years before marrying, and first came to Houston on boat travel. In 1962, Jan assumed a residency in playwriting at the University of Houston, during which time the couple volunteered at Jefferson Davis Hospital. As a volunteer, de Hartog was exposed to the horrible conditions facing patients and staff at Harris County's charity hospital. His work, The Hospital, exposes the conditions and treatment received by patients at Jefferson Davis Hospital (later renamed Ben Taub Hospital). His book received national acclaim, drawing attention to needed changes in the charity hospital system in Houston. In the wake of The Hospital's publication, the de Hartogs became a target of threats and unwanted harassment which ultimately led to the couple leaving Houston in 1964.
The de Hartogs remained active in progressive social causes, using the proceeds from The Hospital book to finance aide programs. Further involvement in peace and social justice efforts lead the couple to become advocates of charity to Korean and Vietnamese war orphans, and in the process they adopted two Korean children. He chronicled these events in the 1969 work, The Children.
De Hartog's long and varied career also included having several works adapted for the screen. His novel, Stella (1951), was adapted for the screen with Sophia Loren and William Holden, as was The Spiral Road (1957), which starred Rock Hudson. His other notable works included novels The Captain (1967), The Commodore (1986), a trilogy fictionalizing the history of the Society of Friends- The Peaceable Kingdom (1972), The Lamb's War (1980) and The Peculiar People (1992), The Centurion (1989), and The Outer Buoy (1994).
The de Hartogs returned to Houston in 1993. In 2002, Jan was presented with an Hononary Doctor of Humane Letters at the University of Houston. Jan de Hartog died September 22, 2002.
Beverly Fey Lowry was born in 1938 in Memphis, Tennessee, and grew up in Greenville, Mississippi. In 1960 she received her B.A. for drama/speech and English literature from Memphis State University. She married Glenn Lowry in 1960 (they are no longer married) and they had two sons.
Lowry's writing career began after she and her husband moved to Houston in 1965. She became an associate professor of fiction writing at the University of Houston in 1976, and in 1977 published her first novel, Come Back, Lolly Ray . That novel and the one which followed it, Emma Blue (1978) were set in the small Southern town of Eunola. In 1981 she published Daddy's Girl, a novel about a Houston honky-tonk singer/songwriter, and her relationship with a flamboyant father.
In 1981, Lowry and her family moved to San Marcos, Texas. During the next six years, both of Lowry's parents died, and her 18-year-old son Peter was killed by a hit-and-run driver. Lowry did not publish any books during this time.
In 1987, Lowry published the novel The Perfect Storm, about a New York actress originally from Baytown, Texas, who supplements her income by swimming in a fish tank at a bar. The following year she published Breaking Gentle, which was set on a quarter-horse ranch in the Texas hill country. In 1992 she published the non-fiction book Crossed Over: A Murder, A Memoir, which fused the story of Death Row inmate Karla Faye Tucker, convicted for her part in a notorious Houston double murder, with Lowry's account of the death of her son. After moving to Los Angeles in 1992, she published her most recent work, The Track of Real Desires (1994), a novel which returns to the Eunola setting of her earlier books.
Lowry has been the recipient of a National Endowment for the Arts fellowship and a Guggenheim Foundation fellowship, and has served as the President of the Texas Institute of Letters. Lowry is currently the director of the Creative Nonfiction Program at George Mason University. She lives in Washington, D.C.
John Updike was born in 1932 in Shillington, Pennsylvania. He graduated from Harvard University in 1954 and worked as a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine from 1955 to 1957. Updike has written more than fifty books, including novels, collections of short stories, poems and criticism. He has received the National Book Award for Fiction, the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, the American Book Award for Fiction, the National Book Critics Circle Award, the Rosenthal Award and the Howells Medal.
On March 20, 1985, Updike visited the University of Houston and gave a lecture at the University Hilton Hotel as part of the University of Houston's 1984-85 Writers in Society Series. Updike read poems from his book Facing Nature to an audience of one thousand, then answered questions. The following day he was the guest of honor at a luncheon hosted by the Friends of the Library to open an exhibition of the library's collection of his works.
Justin Leiber was born in 1938 in Chicago to writers Fritz Leiber, Jr. and Jonquil Stephens Leiber. A philosophy professor at the University of Houston, Leiber has produced both scholarly and fiction works dealing with philosophy, psychology, linguistics, and cognitive science.
Charles Bukowski (1920-1994) was a poet and writer best known for his frank and unflinching portrayals of sex, violence and drinking in working class America. Bukowski was a prolific writer who attracted a cult following beginning in the 1970's.
Sources: "Charles Bukowski", Contemporary Authors Online, Thomson Gale, 2004
(Francis) Warren Roberts was born in Menard, Texas in 1916. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1938 from Southwestern University, and received his doctorate in 1956 from the University of Texas. He spent much of his academic career at the University of Texas at Austin, first as a professor of English, then as director of the Humanities Research Center from 1962 until 1978. The Humanities Research Center is now known as the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center.
(Francis) Warren Roberts has had an active publishing career, focusing a great deal of his time and effort on editing the works of D. H. Lawrence. He has also published additional works on D. H. Lawrence. His interest and scholarly background in English literature are reflected in the materials he donated to the University of Houston Libraries' Special Collections.
Biographical information on (Francis) Warren Roberts is available from a number of sources, including the Directory of American Scholars, International Authors and Writers Who's Who, and Who's Who in America.
Few of the major figures in the history of Houston have had as widespread an influence as Joseph Stephen Cullinan. At times, the word paradoxical comes to mind when the scope of his diverse interests is examined. A leading early exponent for the Texas oil industry, Cullinan was yet an ardent conservationist, who argued for governmental controls over the petroleum business out of concern for preserving natural resources. Although he maintained a fairly consistent record of lifetime support for the Democratic Party, Cullinan advocated the Progressive candidacy of Robert LaFollette in 1924 and in the later years of his life supported the reactionary Liberty League after he became disenchanted with the policies of the New Deal. Despite his flirtations with nativist movements, he strongly opposed the Ku Klux Klan as a result of his own Irish Catholic background, even though he disavowed any affiliation with organized religion.
Arriving in Corsicana, Texas from his native Pennsylvania, where he was born on December 31, 1860, Cullinan immediately became involved in the exploration and drilling of the Corsicana oil fields, borrowing on his own experiences as an oil field worker for Standard Oil. After the discoveries at Spindletop in 1901 shifted the geographical emphasis of the Texas oil industry to the Beaumont area, Cullinan moved his own center of operations there, where he became president of the newly-formed Texas Company in 1902. Recognizing the potential of Houston as an oil center, Cullinan moved the headquarters of the Texas Company there in 1908.
Born in 1832, Edwin Arnold achieved great success as journalist and poet during the second half of the nineteenth century. He lived and worked in several parts of the British and European colonial empires, including India and Congo. His best-known work is the 1879 poem, The Light of Asia.
Sources: Gale Literary Databases, "Edwin Arnold", (accessed August 22, 2006).
(Rudolph) John Frederick Lehmann, was born on June 2, 1907 at Bourne End, Buckinghamshire, England. Lehmann was educated at Eton, and studied history and modern languages at Trinity College, Cambridge. There his close friendship with Julian Bell, nephew of Virginia Woolf, plunged him into the Bloomsbury circle. By 1931 he was working at the Hogarth Press, owned by Woolf and her husband, Leonard. Hogarth Press published his first volume of poems, A Garden Revisited (1931). He briefly left publishing and lived for a time in Austria and the U.S.S.R. as a poet and a journalist prior to the start of World War Two.
His first periodical, New Writing, appeared in 1935 and by 1940 the series reached a broad audience both in Britain and on the frontlines of World War Two. Formatted to fit into the side pockets of combat trousers, it averaged monthly sales of up to 75,000.
Lehmann returned to Hogarth Press in 1938 as a partner and general manager and worked as editor of several anthologies showcasing the works of promising new writers. In 1946 Lehmann established his own publishing company, John Lehmann Limited. After the demise of Lehmann Ltd., he founded and edited London Magazine. He relinquished control over the periodical in 1961 and subsequently wrote several biographies, including Rupert Brooke: His Life and His Legend and Thrown to the Woolfs: Leonard and Virginia Woolf and the Hogarth Press, and three autobiographies which were collected, revised, and condensed into the book In My Own Time: Memoirs of a Literary Life. Lehmann also wrote several volumes of poetry, including A Garden Revisited and Other Poems and Collected Poems, 1930-1963, and the novels Evil Was Abroad and In a Purely Pagan Sense.
He frequently lectured in the US in the late 1960s and early 1970s. After a long illness and unsuccessful hip operations severely limited his mobility, John Lehmann died on April 7, 1987. The New York Times Book Review, called Lehmann "the greatest British literary editor of his time. . . . There is scarcely a writer [of his generation] in Britain . . . who hasn't at one time or other been grateful for his passionate scrutiny."
Sources:
Gale Literary Databases,"(Rudolph) John (Frederick) Lehmann," (accessed August 31, 2006).
David Hughes. "Lehmann, (Rudolph) John Frederick (1907-1987)," rev., Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, 2004.
Petra Rau, University of Portsmouth. "John Lehmann." The Literary Encyclopedia. 21 Mar. 2002. The Literary Dictionary Company.
Donald Barthelme was born in Philadelphia in 1931 to parents Donald Barthelme Sr. and Helen (Bechtold) Barthelme. In 1932, the family moved to Houston, where Donald Barthelme Sr. developed an architectural practice and taught at the University of Houston and Rice University. Barthelme had four younger siblings: Joan (born 1932), Peter (born 1938), Frederick (born 1943), and Steven (born 1947).
Barthelme enrolled at the University of Houston in 1949, where he took courses in journalism, literature, creative writing, and philosophy. He became a reporter, critic, and editor for the school's newspaper, The Cougar.
In July 1951, he left the University of Houston for a job at the Houston Post, where he reviewed movies, plays, and concerts. From July 1953 to December 1954 he served in Korea, writing for the 2nd Infantry Division's official publication. Following his return to Houston, Barthelme took a public relations job at the University of Houston. There he founded and became editor of the interdisciplinary journal Forum. In 1961, Barthelme became acting director of the Contemporary Arts Museum. The following year he moved to New York City to edit a new journal of art and literature called Location.
In 1961, Barthelme's short story "The Darling Duckling at School" (later renamed "Me and Mrs. Mandible") appeared in the journal Contact. Inspired by Samuel Beckett, Barthelme rejected the constraints of traditional plot, setting, and character development in favor of verbal collages full of absurdity and wit. In 1963, Barthelme published the story "L'lapse" in the New Yorker, quickly becoming a regular contributor.
In 1964 Barthelme released his first collection of stories, Come Back, Dr. Caligari. From that point on, he stayed at the forefront of American literature for three decades. Barthelme published nine more story collections, and 129 stories and "casuals" in the New Yorker. Always innovative, he created "collage stories" that combined images and text, and "dialogue stories" in which two disembodied voices alternate in conversation. He also published three novels - Snow White, The Dead Father, and Paradise. In 1972 he released a children's book, The Slightly Irregular Fire Engine, winning the National Book Award for Children's Literature.
Barthelme remains best known for Sixty Stories, a 1981 anthology of his finest work from the sixties and seventies. Sixty Stories was nominated for the National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction, and the Los Angeles Times Book Prize in 1982.
Donald Barthelme taught creative writing at City College in New York from 1974-75. In 1979, he was invited to teach in the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston. Initially he taught in Houston one semester a year, while continuing to live in New York City. In 1983, Barthelme moved to Houston to become a full-time professor. A beloved teacher, he eventually became director of the Creative Writing Progam, a position he held until his death.
Maxine Mesinger (1925-2001), author of the social column, "Big City Beat" for the Houston Chronicle from 1964 to 2000. Born in Houston in 1925 to Ella and Julian "Drake" David, Mesinger graduated from San Jacinto High School and attended Texas Women's University, Indiana University, and University of Houston. She married Emil Mesinger in 1944; they have two children, Julianne and Jay.
After a short career in Houston television, Mesinger was hired as a columnist for the Houston Chronicle in 1964. Known for her lively writing style (she coined terms such as "swankienda" and "playcation") and candid access to Houston society, Mesinger's columns intersected with her own life in her famed friendships with notables such as Frank Sinatra, Barbara Walters, Carol Channing, Judy Garland, Liza Minnelli and Shirley MacLaine. Known as "Miss Moonlight", she covered local events as well as happenings on the national scale. Her columns trace Houston's economic and political growth through the lens of an at times outrageous society life. Her Houston Chronicle obituary summarized this by stating "Mesinger watched Houston grow from a dusty cowtown to a sophisticated international city."
Artist and author (1909-1990). Graduate of Oberlin College, he taught at Georgia State College (1955) and served as editor of publications at the University of California Santa Barbara (1964-70). Published books include the photographic work, The Haciendas of Mexico: an artist's record, and the novels, Adios, mi México, and When the Owl Cries.
Modernist architect and designer, born in Pécs, Hungary. He became director of the furniture department at the Weimar Bauhaus in 1924, and invented a series of furniture-designs using structural frames of bent-steel tubes finished in chrome. In 1928 he set up an architectural practice in Berlin. Came to United States in 1937 to teach at Harvard, where students included students Philip Johnson and Paul Rudolph. In 1946 he moved his practice to New York City. Major projects included the UNESCO Headquarters in Paris (1952-8), the lecture-hall, New York University, the IBM Research Centre, La Gaude, Var, France (1961 with Robert F. Gatje ) and the Whitney Museum of American Art, New York (with H. Smith, 1963-6).
Source:
"Breuer, Marcel Lajos" A Dictionary of Architecture and Landscape Architecture. James Stevens Curl. Oxford University Press 2006. Oxford Reference Online. Oxford University Press. University of Houston. 14 September 2006 http://www.oxfordreference.com/views/ENTRY.html?subview=Main=t1.e673
For further information on Barnstone and Neuhaus:
Howard Barnstone Papers, Houston Metropolitan Research Center, Houston Public Library
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. "Barnstone, Howard" http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/articles/BB/fbael.html (accessed September 13, 2006).
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. " Neuhaus, Hugo Victor, Jr. (1915-1987).," http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/articles/NN/fne43.html (accessed September 14, 2006)
A native of McLennan County, Texas, Thomas Terry Connally (1877-1963) served in the United States Congress from 1917-1952.
Sources:
Handbook of Texas Online,"Connally, Tom", http://www.tsha.utexas.edu/handbook/online/articles/CC/fco36.html
Writer, hobbyist, resident of Beaumont, California. Birth and possible death dates unknown.
H. David Kaplan was born in Brooklyn, New York on November 13, 1934. In 1956, he received a B.A. in journalism from The University of Michigan. Kaplan has worked for newspapers, magazines, and corporate communications while also functioning as a patron of and volunteer to the arts throughout the United States.
Kaplan's longstanding interest in the performing/fine arts was established by his parents, and was further entrenched when he lived in New York City. Another influence on his interest in the arts was his uncle, Al Kaplan, who performed in vaudeville throughout the world from 1920-1947.
Kaplan has provided many years of service to the arts through his involvement with the Houston Grand Opera, in his former role as Associate Publisher for Houston's Performing Arts Magazine, and in his ongoing role as an instructor in Enjoying Opera and American Opera courses for continuing education classes in Federal Way, Washington. He has also enhanced the arts collections of several libraries, donating this collection as well as portions of the Hoblitzelle Theatre Collection to the University of Texas, Austin, and a 48-volume collection of New York City theatre playbills and programs to the University of Washington Libraries Special Collections. He continues his enthusiastic patronage of the arts, and routinely donates New York theater programs to libraries and archives.
In 1952, a 15-year-old boy received a letter from Albert Einstein. That letter formed the first item in what would become a major personal library. Today, The Jagdish Mehra Collection is a premier research center within the University of Houston Libraries. It is rich in primary archival and secondary research materials. In 1990, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization appraised the collection at considerably more than $10 million and termed it "absolutely unique as a scientific and cultural resource."
This compilation does not concentrate solely on science. Dr. Mehra's intellectual interests in literature, philosophy, and history are reflected in the collection. The collection includes recorded conversations with famous literary and philosophic figures such as T.S. Eliot, Louis Aragon, Simone de Beauvoir, Carl Gustav Jung, Jean Paul Sartre, Aldous Huxley and many more.
From an early age, Dr. Jagdish Mehra realized his passion to study physics. In 1952, Dr. Mehra won the Adams Essay Prize of the International Council of YMCAs for his paper on Albert Einstein's philosophy of science and life. That paper also won a congratulatory letter from the famous physicist himself.
After earning a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees elsewhere, Dr. Mehra earned his Ph. D. in Theoretical Physics from Universite de Neuchatel in Switzerland in 1963. He then taught there as a visiting professor of theoretical physics for one year.
Dr. Mehra has lectured in Belgium, England, Israel, Holland, Germany, France, and Denmark. In the United States, Dr. Mehra has lectured at the California Institute of Technology, Cornell University, Georgetown University, Purdue University, Rice University, the University of California at Irvine, and the University of Houston. He also has earned numerous awards and grants from prestigious foundations, including the Henschel Fellowship and the U.S. Distinguished Senior Scientist Award of the Humboldt Foundation.
Sylvan Nathan Karchmer was born in Dallas, Texas, on December 31, 1911. After graduating from high school, he worked for the petroleum industry until 1942, when he served as an enlisted man in World War II and was posted to North Africa and Italy. In 1947, Karchmer began his undergraduate degree at the University of Texas and graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts in 1949 and Master of Fine Arts in 1950. Karchmer studied Playwriting under Dr. E.P. Conkle. His master's thesis was the writing and production of a full-length play, Stranger upon Earth. During his time as a student, Karchmer wrote several short stories and had many published in principal little magazines. In Best American Short Stories of 1951 five of his stories were judged "distinctive." Upon graduation he was eager to find a teaching position that would allow him time to write. He accepted a teaching position at the University of Oregon, teaching playwriting and creative writing. He rose from the rank of instructor to full professor during his 17 year tenure and was Head, Creative Writing Division. He was writer in residence at Viterbo College, Wisconsin (1970-1), and taught playwriting and short story writing at Banff School of Fine Arts in Canada. One of his plays, The Tooth of the Lion, won the Charles Sergel Prize at the University of Chicago in 1953. Productions of his plays Vain Empire and A Little Winter Love were performed at Stephens College, Missouri in 1957 and University of Nebraska in 1961. His short stories appeared in numerous publications, including Antioch Review, Southwest Review, Esquire, Western Review, Prairie Schooner, University of Kansas City Review, Arizona Review, Colorado Quarterly, Opinion, Kansas Quarterly. Several stories have been reprinted in anthologies such as Best American Short Stories, 21 Texas Stories, College Years, These Your Children. Karchmer also wrote and published several short stories under his pseudonym Lee Brian.
Karchmer always considered Texas his home and returned to teach Creative Writing at the University of Houston in 1967 and served as the Fiction Editor of Forum from 1971-80. Sylvan Karchmer died on July 24, 1991 at the age of 79.
Paul E. Purser was born in Southeast Louisiana. He graduated from Louisiana State University in 1939 with a BA in Aerospace Engineering.
In his early career, he held engineering positions at Glen L. Martin Company in Baltimore, and at Langley Field, where he researched wind tunnels and worked in the Pilotless Aircraft Research Division (PARD). From 1958 to 1970, Purser was Special Assistant to the Director of Project Mercury, which developed into the Manned Spacecraft Center, the precursor to Johnson Space Center. In 1968, he served as Special Assistant to the President, University of Houston, where he advised the development of the University of Houston, Clear Lake.
Linda May, a writer and feminist political activist, was most active between 1970 and 2000. She attended the 1985 and 1995 United Nations NGO Conferences on Women in Nairobi and Beijing. She also served as a coordinator and speaker at the 1977 National Women's Conference in Houston, Texas. Linda represented the American Jewish Coalition at numerous national and global women's conferences, and was involved with many anti-domestic violence organizations in the Houston area throughout her career. Flora Moon is a film maker based in Los Angeles, Houston and Boston. Born in Indiana to Chinese immigrants Wei Ning and Tack-Shing Li, Flora knew very little about her Chinese roots growing up until her aunt De Ping moved to the United States in the 1980’s. She learned about her family’s recent history and how they were targeted during the Communist Revolution, as well as their ties to the Tang Dynasty. After visiting the People’s Republic of China and meeting her extended family, Flora created a short documentary film, The Living Tree about her journey discovering her Chinese roots. The majority of this collection contains correspondence, financial information, grant applications and proposals, historical and family research, production notes, audio-visual materials and books pertaining to the research and production of this documentary. Other items include film scripts, periodicals and ephemera from Flora Moon’s film career.
Betty Trapp Chapman was born on October 18, 1936 in Tupelo, Mississippi to Charles Wilson and Mamie Elizabeth Trapp. She moved to Houston in 1959 for a teaching position in Spring Branch Independent School District. She married Billy Klingman Chapman in 1960; they have two daughters. She has been an independent historian and freelance writer since 1989 and has written several books including; Historic Houston, and The Rough Road of Justice. This collection contains research materials, notes and correspondence related to the writing of The Rough Road to Justice: The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
The River Oaks Rose Club was established as an organization for rose lovers and gardeners to share advice, maintain their gardens, and create community. The club held monthly meetings and exhibited an annual Rose Show to showcase members’ hard work.
The Center for Hearing and Speech (formerly known as the Houston School for Deaf Children) was established in 1947 by the parents of deaf children. The school focuses on teaching hearing impaired and deaf children to lip-read and use residual hearing to communicate orally with hearing individuals. This collection focuses on the Auxiliary of the Center for Hearing and Speech, which was founded in 1969 to raise funds for the school, which has a sliding tuition scale.
Claudia Kolker is a Mexican-American journalist who has served on editorial boards for the Los Angeles Times, the Houston Chronicle, and more. Her work has been featured in The Washington Post, The Boston Globe, The Economist, O: The Oprah Magazine, Slate, and Salon. She has reported from El Salvador, Mexico, India, and the Caribbean on politics, religion, and more. In 2011, she published her first book, titled The Immigrant Advantage: What We Can Learn from Newcomers to America about Health, Happiness and Hope. She lives in Houston with her two children.
Marcella Ellen (née Donovan) Perry was born to James and Ellen Donovan in the Houston Heights in 1908. Her father, James, was the city attorney for the Heights prior to Houston's annexing of the city in 1918. In 1950, Marcella was appointed to the board of directors of Reagan State Bank in Houston, but prior to that, she was a noted dancer. In 1922, she graduated from Heights High School and debuted in New York at Greenwich Village Follies. Marcella married Glenn A. Perry in 1930 and established a dancing studio in Houston where she taught various forms of dance to children and young adults.
In 1973, Marcella was appointed by Houston city council to serve as the city's first female commissioner of the Port of Houston Authority. In that same year, Marcella was president of Heights Savings Association; board chairman of First Pasadena State Bank, and Almeda-Genoa Bank; director of Reagan State Bank. She also served on the board of regents for Texas Woman's University and was politically active for much of her life. Marcella was also an active member of the American Bank Women's Association and the American Revolution Bi-Centennial Commission for Texas. In 1999, Marcella passed away from natural causes.
The Texas Society of Professional Engineers (TSPE) Houston Auxiliary was established as a chapter of the National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) Auxiliary in 1960. The Auxiliary raises scholarship funds, campaigns, and provides support to the National Society of Professional Engineers. TSPE coordinates various continuing education programs, scholarship fundraising, Math Counts, the Houston Science Fair, and is active within the Engineering Council of Houston.
Betty C. Jukes, originally from Orlando, Florida, moved to Houston in 1967 with her husband, Harry Jukes, in 1967. Betty founded the First Junior Woman’s Club of Houston and the Houston Junior Woman’s Club, of which she was the president from 1968-1969. Betty also served as president of The Woman’s Club of Houston from 1973-1976, where she coordinated a large number of philanthropic events and charity programs. She also coordinated events for the Houston March of Dimes, the Houston School for the Deaf, the Houston Youth Symphony and Ballet, and the Clean Houston Proud Partners Luncheon. Other organizations that Betty has been involved with include the World Wildlife Fund, the Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh Memorial Fund, the Mercury Seven Foundation, the Helen and Immanuel Olshan Texas Music Festival, and Friends of the Moores School of Music at the University of Houston, and more.
Toni Beauchamp was born in Houston Texas on September 11, 1945 to Margaret Brown and Raymond Gin. Due to racial tensions and pressures placed on her parents, which resulted in their divorce, Toni was reared until school age by her nurturing maternal grandmother, Minnie Bell Caddell Brown. This experience fueled her desire to bridge the racial gap in later years. Toni's mother eventually married John Nobler, and Toni soon gained a half sister, Carolyn.
While attending Lamar High School in 1961, Toni met her future husband and soul mate Jeff, who was then a student at UT Austin. Toni and Jeff were married in 1963 and would spend the next 48 years together working alongside each other in various ventures. Toni played a major role to the success of their first company, Intermat, which they sold in 1997.
Toni’s love for the arts prompted her to pursue a career in Art History. As a result, she earned her BA from the University of Houston and her MA from The University of Texas at Austin. She firmly believed in the transformative power of public art, and her 1983 Master's thesis on James Johnson Sweeney and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston was a groundbreaking work of art history scholarship. The thesis recounted the life of the renowned museum curator and director, not only as a biographical narrative but also as an exploration of the city's art institutions and the development of the local art world. This publication generated many of the concepts that Toni would explore in later publications.
Her deep passions for all things art and her immense contributions to the art and civic worlds enabled her to affect change through her endless hours of service on boards and advisory committees. Toni will forever be remembered and beloved for her ability to use the power of art to transform the surrounding community. After a courageous battle with ovarian cancer, she passed away on March 9, 2012. She is survived by her husband Jeffery O. Beauchamp, her mother Margaret Brown, and her father Raymond Tong Gin.
Founded on 13 March 1988, the North America Taiwanese Women’s Association (NATWA) organized during an era when Taiwanese women had no independent organization to represent them. In 1987, Ms. Maysing Yang became the Taiwanese American Association’s (TAA) first female president and ushered in a new era for Taiwanese women. Enlisting the services of Ms. Annette Lu, founder of Taiwan’s women’s movement, to aid in planning, the first steps toward a women’s branch of the TAA began to take shape. In March of 1988, thirty Taiwanese women from the United States and Canada met in Los Angeles and under the guidance of Ms. Lu, voted to form NATWA.
The members voted Fu-Mei-Chang of San Jose first President, with Grace Chou serving as Vice-President and president elect. At the same time, seven by-law board members were also elected and in July of the same year 45 members voted to approve the official by-laws. The seven board members, having concluded their duties, became the first seven regional board members representing US East, US Midwest, US West, US South, US Great Plains, US Southeast, and Canada. The organization continued to grow for the following six years when the sixth president, Ying Lee, broadened NATWA’s structure. During her tenure, Ms. Lee organized committees and create formal job descriptions for office holders.
NATWA continues to grow to this day with the participation of over 1,000 members. Run primarily by volunteers, the organization boasts a healthy financial standing due to its publications, especially its yearly calendar. Though faced with obstacles on the world stage, NATWA has garnered more support in the foreign community and in December 2000, NATWA became one of the five collaborating members of the World Taiwanese Congress.
The Women’s Resource Center (WRC) opened on Tuesday, March 9, 2004 as a result of the recommendations of the University Commission on Women (UCW).  In September 1999, President Arthur K. Smith appointed 24 UH-affiliated women to the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women for a two-year period to address the issues and concerns of women on the University of Houston campus. The Commission was created to examine the lack of women in higher administrative positions and the workplace climate for women on campus. The Commission was later expanded to include men. The Commission’s first action was to undertake a campus-wide survey and developed a report with numerous recommendations, one of which was the creation of a university supported Women’s Resource Center. The recommendation was realized with the opening of the WRC in 2004.
The goals of the WRC are to provide a comfortable place where UH students, staff, and faculty can seek information on a variety of topics, obtain confidential referrals to appropriate campus and community resources, and discuss issues of concern; to educate the University of Houston community on topics that concern women with a special focus on violence against women due to gender, sexual identity, race, or disability; to identify and research issues that affect University of Houston women; to serve as a liaison between women on campus and the administration, often by working with the University Commission on Women; and to celebrate the achievements of University of Houston women by featuring a UH female faculty, staff or student each month on our web site in the "Spotlight" feature.
On September 24, 1999, then University of Houston President, Arthur K. Smith, appointed twenty-four university affiliated women to the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women for a two-year period in an effort to address the issues and concerns of women on the university campus. Two months later, at the request of the commission, President Smith expanded the commission to thirty-five members, including males and other identified persons. The following year work groups were formed and consultants began gathering information on the status of women at the University of Houston. The Committee on the Status of Women (CSW) also proposed the formation of a Women’s Resource Center (WRC) to President Smith who deferred his final decision on the proposal until the commission’s final report. On September 21, 2001 the Final Report with executive summary was forwarded to President Smith.
In 2002 Kathy Anzivino and Anne Jacobson were elected as co-chairs of the commission and committees began work on specific recommendations including the process of creating a single, permanent, campus wide advisory group on women's issues at the university. The University Commission on Women became a permanent organization in May of 2003 upon President Smith’s approval of the bylaws recommended for its operations. On January 12, 2004 the commission held its first official meeting.
Born Barbara Diane Farrar, she was the daughter of an English immigrant father and a mother of Portuguese descent in New York City on December 6, 1946. Barbara Karkabi worked as a journalist for the Houston Chronicle for thirty years. She attended parochial schools in Manhattan and earned a bachelor's degree in English literature from Syracuse University in 1968. For several years Karkabi worked as a reservations agent for Pan American Airways, travelling extensively around the world, especially to the Middle East and Asia. While living in Beirut, Lebanon in the mid-1970s, she began writing for the English-language newspaper, Daily Star, covering the nation’s civil war. At one point Karkabi was briefly kidnapped with a busload of Japanese travellers by armed Palestine guerillas.
After leaving Beirut, she moved to London, England with her husband Tony Karkabi, a Lebanese travel agent. In London, Barbara worked as a freelance journalist before moving to Houston, Texas in 1977. Before joining the Houston Chronicle, Karkabi wrote for Suburbia-Reporter, a weekly suburban newspaper in the Houston area. In 1979 she began her career with the Chronicle generating feature stories on a variety of topics ranging from health to women and religious issues to trends in the city’s minority communities. An article she wrote in 1990 about river blindness garnered the attention of local philanthropist John Moores. In response to the story, Moores donated $25 million to an effort by a University of Houston optometry professor, William Baldwin, to distribute a highly effective drug to those in need.
Besides her work with the Chronicle, Karkabi also spent time engaged in women’s organizations. She was a long time board member of Friends of Women's Studies, a nonprofit that supports the University of Houston's Women's Studies program and wrote the first story about the Carey C. Shuart Women's Archive and Research Collection at the UH Library. Karkabi also helped found the Association for Women Journalists Houston chapter in the 1990s.
Karkabi passed away on Saturday January 28, 2012, leaving husband Mike Snyder, also a Houston Chronicle reporter and editor, and daughter Megan Snyder, both of Houston, Texas.
Incorporated in March 1997, the River Oaks Area Democratic Women's (ROADwomen) main goal was to fill a void in Democratic activity within the city of Houston, Texas. Organizations for Democratic women that had operated in the city prior to 1997 had fallen into inactivity leaving no representation for these politically activity women, as opposed to the twenty-five groups that existed for Republican women in Harris County. ROADwomen became a “home for the politically disengaged upwardly mobile Democratic woman” in the area. The goals for the ROADwomen were, and continue to be efforts to elect Democrats to office, with a special emphasis on electing pro-choice Democratic women; to influence the Democratic Party to continue its historic role as a party that promotes social justice and equal rights for all people; and act as an organization that educates Houstonians about important political issues affecting them.
The founding members consisted of Dalia Stokes, Elizabeth Guffy, Sherry Merfish, Muffie Moroney, Judy Reiner, and Kay Staley. Since 1997, the organization has worked with like-minded groups to support and elect quality Democratic candidates at all levels of government.
Andrea White, the wife of former Houston Mayor Bill White, was first lady of Houston, TX from 2004 to 2010. Andrea, a lawyer, civic leader, and author, was born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana to parents Arthur and Patsi Ferguson. She and her family later moved to Houston, where she attended Memorial High School before going on to receive both undergraduate and law degrees at The University of Texas at Austin.
As is evident from her writings and speeches, Andrea was a reluctant political spouse who suffered (at first) from a high level of “stage fright.”  Now an experienced public speaker and lecturer, Andrea fondly remembers when she once was called upon by her pastor to lead the congregation in song and was so frightened that the only “tune she could recall was Happy Birthday.”
Andrea is the author of eight books spanning 1993 to 2010 in the young adult genre. Her works are featured in the Texas Bluebonnet list as well as state reading lists across the nation. Andrea’s writings have also garnered her the Golden Spur Award, issued by the Texas State Reading Association.
Deborah Tucker and Sarah Buel formed the National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence (NCDSV) in 1998 to provide customized training and consultation on domestic and sexual violence issues at the national level. Both Tucker and Sarah come from strong backgrounds in the fight against domestic violence. In 1973, Tucker volunteered with the first rape crisis center in Texas. She became the Assistant Director of the Austin Rape Crisis Center and then became the Executive Director of the Austin Center for Battered Women from 1977 until 1982 (www.ncdsv.org). Tucker was the first Executive Director of the Texas Council on Family Violence, 1982 - 1996.
Sarah, herself a domestic violence survivor, has worked for more than 30 years with battered women and abused children within the legal system. Sarah is currently the Faculty Director of the Diane Halle Center for Family Justice at the Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law at Arizona State University. Prior to her current position she was a Clinical Professor at The University of Texas School of Law, having started, then co-directed, their Domestic Violence Clinic. She teaches "Domestic Violence and the Law", and some of her students’ papers have been included in the NCDSV records.
Deborah Tucker and Sarah Buel together formed a consulting firm in 1996 called Tucker, Buel, and Associates. The firm provided customized consultation and training to end violence against women. In May of 1998, the two women joined forces again and co-founded the National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence.
The organization has played a national role in several areas. It participated in the passage of the Violence Against Women Act, it collaborated in training with the National Sheriffs’ Association and the National Center for Rural Law Enforcement, and several staff members of the NCDSV participated in the Department of Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence (DTFDV). The National Defense Authorization Act established the DTFDV in 1999. Twelve senior members from the Department of Defense and twelve subject matter experts from the private sector comprised the members of the task force. The duty of the task force was to review and evaluate current Family Advocacy Programs and policies and make recommendations for improvement. The task force provided the Department of Defense with a strategic plan to improve domestic violence programs. Staff traveled to both Asian and European military installations to evaluate existing programs and to make recommendations. Tucker served as Co-Chair of this task force from 2000-2003.
The Society of Women Engineers (SWE) was founded on May 27, 1950 at the Green Engineering Camp of the Cooper Union in New Jersey as a non-profit educational resource and support to help promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics for women. On October 14 of the same year, the National Board met under the first president of the SWE, Dr. Beatrice A. Hicks. The following year not only saw the first National Conference in New York City but also the first chapter in Pittsburgh. Sections were chartered in Chicago and Los Angeles soon after, as well as student sections at Drexel and Purdue universities. Over the last six decades the SWE has grown to include ten regional sections made up of numerous professional and student sections. The Houston Area section was chartered July 1, 1979 as the thirty-third section.
The Harris County Women’s Political Caucus was founded in April of 1972 as one of the local affiliates of the Texas Women’s Political Caucus and National Women’s Political Caucus. The by-laws of the caucus defined its purpose as organizing Harris County women so that “they may unite in political action, especially against sexism, racism, institutional violence, and poverty.” (Bylaws, Folder 1, Box 1). Founding members of the Harris County Women’s Political Caucus included many well-known Harris County activists, business leaders, philanthropists and politicians such as Betty Barnes, Helen Cassidy, Peggy Hall, Ruth Milburn, and Poppy Northcut. Throughout the rest of the 1970s the Harris County Political Caucus was very successful in women’s rights advocacy. It collected data about discrimination against women, lobbied political leaders at the local and state level for pro-women legislation such as the ratification of the state and national Equal Rights Amendments, and supported the political campaigns of women seeking public office. The caucus also successfully lobbied for the creation of a Women’s Advocate for the city of Houston.
By 1981 the Harris County Political Caucus was one of the fastest growing affiliates of the National Women’s Political Caucus in the nation, having increased its membership by 260% (“A brief history” Harris County Women’s Political Caucus). The caucus continued its social and political activism in the 1980s, taking an active role in opposing anti-choice legislation in Texas and supporting the mayoral race of Kathy Whitmire.
Called “the Mother of the Texas Battered Women’s Movement” by the Texas Council on Family Violence, Toby Myers is a longtime advocate, speaker, and licensed clinical social worker who has dedicated her life to the fight against domestic violence. Herself a survivor of domestic abuse, Toby Myers received her bachelor’s and master’s degrees from the University of Texas at Austin before obtaining a doctorate from the University of Houston in 1976. She has served since 1992 on the Jewish Advisory Board of the Faith Trust Institute and remains a therapist in private practice as well as an activist against violence in Jewish households.
Toby Myers is the founder of a group that works to reform the behavior of men who batter. She has presented on the subjects of women’s issues and domestic violence for over three decades at hundreds of workshops and seminars and is an expert witness for women who suffer from Battered Women’s Syndrome and consequently have committed acts of violence against their abusive intimate partners.
For her efforts, Toby has received the Hannah G. Soloman Award from the National Council of Jewish Women, Greater Houston Section, was named a “Woman of Distinction” in 2001 by the Bridge Over Troubled Waters, and in 2010 she received the prestigious Dee Dee Ostfeld Award from Aid to Victims of Domestic Abuse (AVDA).
Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas, now known as Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast, opened its doors in February of 1936 under the name Maternal Health Center of Houston. Under the direction of Agnese Carter Nelms and her brother-in-law Dr. Judson L. Taylor the Maternal Health Center was dedicated to helping poor and indigent women in Houston receive health care and an education on family planning. The original purpose of the Maternal Health Center was stated as, “to establish and maintain a free medical clinic for the use and benefit of mothers and prospective mothers of the City of Houston and to furnish mothers and prospective mothers of Houston free medical advice on maternal health” (Anderson 8). Eventually, through Agnese Nelms’ tireless work and advocacy of family planning and the birth control movement, the Maternal Health Center gained the support of many of Houston’s prominent community leaders. The first board of directors included many of Houston’s elite, and the wealthiest and most successful businessmen and their wives, such as Mrs. Will Clayton, Maurice and Susan McAshan, the Rev. J. Elmer Ferguson, Rosalie Farish, and Mrs. John Bullington (11 Anderson).
Birth control and family planning remained controversial for the next several decades and the Maternal Health Center volunteers kept the clinic alive through word of mouth and door-to-door grass roots campaigning. They remained loosely affiliated with the American Birth Control League, which eventually became the Planned Parenthood Federation of America in 1942. This affiliation with the American Birth Control League would lead, ultimately, to the incorporation of the Maternal Health Center with the Planned Parenthood Federation of America.
In the late 1940s the Maternal Health Center was renamed to the Planned Parenthood Center of Houston, and after the legalization of birth control with the Supreme Court’s 1965 Griswold vs. Connecticut decision the Center grew to include many satellite clinics and thus renamed itself to Planned Parenthood of Houston.
The institution continued to grow, adding vasectomy clinics, more women’s clinics and focusing on public outreach and education, until it merged with several other Planned Parenthoods in Texas to become, in 1978, Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. By 1984 the organization was seeing as many as 60,000 patients a year (5 Molan).
In 2010 Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas was renamed again to the Planned Parenthood Gulf Coast as it absorbed clinics in Louisiana and other areas of Texas. It continues to grow, expanding its public education and outreach services, expanding sex education access in schools and offering low cost health care, contraception and counseling and abortions. Its slogan remains “every child a wanted child.”
References:
Anderson, Maria Helen. Private choices vs. public voices: The history of Planned Parenthood in Houston. Diss. Rice University, 1998. Dissertations & Theses: Full Text, ProQuest. Web. 2 Dec. 2010.
Molan, Michelle R. Proud of our past planning the future: 50 years of Planned Parenthood. Houston, TX: Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas, 1986.
In the Spring of 1985, the walls of Lower Manhattan’s Soho and West Village neighborhoods became plastered with “Public Service Announcements” railing against sexism in the art world. At the bottom of each poster was stamped:
“The Guerilla Girls
Conscience of the art world.”
The anonymous art collective of gorilla-masked women that was behind the feminist propaganda campaign began appearing soon thereafter at well-known museums and Galleries in New York City. The enigmatic hominid-clad protesters quickly gained notoriety and copycat groups began springing up in cities throughout North America.
In May of 1987, one such group, the self-styled Houston “Gorilla Girls,” made their first “hit” at the Glassell School of Art in Houston’s Museum District. They then went on to demonstrate against what they perceived as sexism and racism at high-profile Houston art venues such as the Menil, the Museum of Fine Arts Houston, and the Lawndale Arts Center.
The Houston Gorilla Girls’ string of “hits,” performances, and installations ran from 1987 to 1997, when they performed a final show in Verona, Italy at the Villa Carlotta. During their period of activity they became a fixture of the Houston arts scene and are credited with helping open its doors to more female and minority artists. To date, the identities and whereabouts of the Houston Gorilla Girls remain unknown.
Asians Against Domestic Abuse (AADA) was founded in 2001 in order to raise awareness about domestic abuse in the Asian community and provide legal advocacy, community education, social service assistance, and interpretation for the Asian American community. The AADA was founded by Swapna Chaunduri, Rehana Sarwar, Salma Siddiqi, and Shantha Raghuthaman, who organized its first Board of directors. AADA works closely with other social services and women’s centers in Texas and is currently still active. For more information see http://www.aadainc.org.
Altrusa International Inc., Club of Houston was organized in 1925, as part of Altrusa International which was founded in 1917, in Nashville, Tennessee. The Altrusa motto, “Patriotism, Efficiency, Service”, reflects their dedication to community involvement and volunteerism. The Club of Houston has established several community volunteer programs, including the Friends and Neighbors Project (FAN), Make a Difference Day, and Hearts-Hands for Service Foundation. The FAN Project encompasses Story time Saturdays, a Summer Reading Program, and Holiday Gifts for seniors. Altrusa works with Literary Advance of Houston, in connection with the FAN Project. Make a Difference Day is held every October, with the Galveston Bay Foundation. Hearts-Hands for Service, founded in 1983, assists women, children, and seniors in the Houston area. Members of the Club of Houston also participate in a mentoring program for the ASTRA Club. The Houston Club awards scholarships and grants to local students.
Honorable Presley Kittredge Ewing was born on July 21, 1860 in the Lafourche Parish of Louisiana. He attended preparatory school before earning his Law degree from the University of Mississippi as valedictorian in 1881. In 1882, he settled in Houston, Texas where he became a practicing attorney. Shortly thereafter, on February 10, 1885, Ewing married his seven year long fiancée, Mary Ellen Williams, at “Sunnyside,” her family home in Lafourche Parish.
Both Presley and Mary Ellen made considerable contributions to society as a whole within their own realm of interest. Honorable Ewing was elected and served as President of the Texas Bar Associations in 1899; and in 1905, he was commissioned and served as the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Texas, and he was endorsed by many for U.S. Supreme Court, but was never appointed. Over the years, he became known as a pioneer of the law profession as he developed many great judicial principals of the South. In addition to his professional success, Ewing was also seen as a social leader. For many years he was the President of the ZZ Club, which is the oldest social organization in Texas, and he was a Master Mason, a Knight Templar, a Shriner, an Elk and a Beta-Bheta-Phi.
Mary Ellen, born August 7, 1862 in the St. Mary’s Parish of Louisiana, possessed and accumulated a myriad of distinguishable attributes and accomplishments as well. Her life was characterized by public and philanthropic service, which deservedly placed her in “The Texas Women’s Hall of Fame.” Notably, she was the Chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Harris County Equal Suffrage Association and Honorary President of the Child Welfare League. In addition, she was the first Vice President of State Congress of Mothers and the State Humane Society. She was also known for her advocacy endeavors and feminist activism as she fought for public school reform and advocated for women to be on the school board. Last, but not least, inventor was another role she succeeded in as she was granted three Letters Patent of the United States for developments in street sanitation.
The union of Honorable Presley and Mary Ellen Ewing produced two daughters: Josie Vesta, born February 11, 1886 and Gladys, born April 17, 1893. Both daughters attended private school, graduated from Houston High School at the ages of 16 and earned a post graduate diploma with high honors from the Finch School in New York City. Josie Vesta married Joseph Carroll Vinson at Christ Church (Episcopal), Both daughters were members of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution as well.
References:
Ewing, Presley Kittredge and Mary Ellen (Williams) Ewing. The Ewing Genealogy with Cognate Branches: A Survey of the Ewings and Their Kin in America. Presley K. Ewing, 1919.
The Houston Assembly of Delphian Chapters is an organization for women, which has three-fold purpose. It is dedicated to intellectual enrichment, social enhancement, and philanthropic endeavors. Founded in Houston in 1924, it is one of the oldest clubs for women in the greater metropolitan area. The organization has continued uninterrupted through wars, recessions, and most importantly, the changing role of women in society.
The organization is known for hosting a wide range of social functions, including an annual gala, luncheons, style shows, cultural events, and tours. The proceeds fund scholarships to area undergraduate students at the University of Houston. In addition, Delphian chapters meet in small discussion groups guided by seminar material focused on specific topics. Such a meeting structure illustrates the importance placed on enriching intellect by the Houston Assembly of Delphian Chapters.
In 1980, Susan Goodman Komen lost her battle with breast cancer at the age of 36. In the last months of Susan’s life, her sister, Nancy Goodman Brinker, made a promise to dedicate the rest of her life to increasing awareness and support of breast cancer research, education, screening and treatment. In 1982, Nancy’s promise launched the global breast cancer movement and the creation of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, which was renamed Susan G. Komen for the Cure in 2009.
In 1990, Brinker established The Komen Houston Affiliate. It is ranked number one, topping 125 affiliate groups worldwide, in recognition of providing the most funding for education, screening and treatment both globally and in its seven-county service area in Southwest Texas. The Komen Houston Race for the Cure, the affiliate’s largest fundraiser, attracted a record 30,000 participants in 2008 amidst the devastation and confusion of the Hurricane Ike aftermath. As a grassroots network of breast cancer survivors and activists, the organization works to save lives, empower people, ensure quality care for all and energize science to find cures.
The Komen Foundation, as a whole, is the global leader of breast cancer awareness and support. As of 2008, the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation had invested more than $1 billion since its inception in 1982. The Komen Foundation is the largest source of nonprofit funds dedicated to the fight against breast cancer in the world.
Sources:
www.komen-houston.org
Norma Lee was a Houston Area feminist activist born June 1, 1936 in Beeville, TX to Nell and Marvin Lee. Norma was a graduate of Lamar High School and The University of Colorado at Boulder and received her Master's degree from the University of Houston. After teaching for the U.S. Department of defense in Germany and Okinawa, Norma spent 38 years as a school librarian for the Houston Independent School District (HISD).
Ms. Lee was very active in her community. She served as a National Organization of Women (NOW) member beginning in 1973, and she also assisted in various activities during the national meeting of NOW in 1974. In 1976, she ran for the position of Democratic Judge for Precinct 32 of the city of Houston and served in that capacity for many years. In addition, Norma was an avid proponent of the Equal Rights Amendment, a Lector, Acolyte, a member of the Altar Guild and New Women’s Group of St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, a founding member of the Houston Episcopal Women's Caucus Chapter and a delegate from the St. Stephen's to the Council of the Episcopal Diocese of Texas.
Notably, Norma played a role in facilitating the International Women’s Year (IWY) National Women’s Conference of 1977, which was the first and only national women's conference to be sponsored by the federal government. From November 18 to 21, 1977, over 20,000 people gathered in Houston, Texas to celebrate International Women's Year and identify goals for women for the next decade. Prominent women such as Billie Jean King, Maya Angelou, and Betty Friedan were in attendance. First ladies Rosalyn Carter, Betty Ford and Lady Bird Johnson attended the event as well.
Ms. Lee passed away on March 28, 2001 and is survived by her partner of 32 years, Ann Robinson.
Harriet Joan Ehrlich was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey on February 12, 1935. She attended Syracuse University where she received a bachelor’s degree in home economics and started her career as a bridal consultant for Bloomingdales Department store. Ehrlich spent her younger years making a name for herself in the civil rights movement before joining the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) in Houston. While working as a director of a state enforcement unit in Philadelphia, Ehrlich pushed the local school district to resolve unequal pay for female janitors.
Over the next 24 years, Ehrlich worked tirelessly for the EEOC, becoming director of the Houston office and later the office in San Francisco. She actively spoke to the press, pushed EEOC lawyers to file more and larger cases, and reached out to civil rights leaders, clergy and business leaders. Even while bed ridden Ehrlich continued her work in labor advocacy, convening her staff in a San Francisco hospital room. Ehrlich died of leukemia at the age of 72.
Source:
Houston Chronicle, http://www.chron.com/news/houston-deaths/article/H-Joan-Ehrlich-longtime-worker-advocate-dies-1776151.php
Annise Parker was born and reared in Houston’s Spring Branch area. Annise’s mother worked as a bookkeeper, and her father worked for the Red Cross. The family moved to the U. S. Army base in Mannheim, Germany for two years when Annise was 15. Afterwards, she attended Rice University in 1974 on a National Merit Scholarship and worked several jobs to pay for her room and board. She graduated in 1978, beginning a 20-year career in the oil and gas industry – 18 of them at Houston’s Mosbacher Energy.
Following this period, Annise moved into public service in 1997, as the first openly gay City Council Member to be elected in Houston, Texas. She and her life partner, Kathy Hubbard, have been together since 1990, and they have two adopted children. From 1997 to 2003, Parker held a seat on Houston’s City Council, and then served as the City Controller of Houston for six years. Annise Parker was elected mayor of Houston on December 12, 2009.
In addition to her work in city politics, Parker has been the subject and author of numerous newspaper and magazine articles across the country. Parker is very active in the GLBT Community and the Houston community as a whole. She serves on various governing bodies such as the Board of Directors of the Holocaust Museum Houston and Girls Inc. and the Advisory Boards of the Houston Zoo, the Montrose Counseling Center, Bering Omega Community Services, and Trees for Houston.
Born in Scotch Grove, Iowa in 1875, Blanche Espy Chenoweth was a well respected lecturer and writer in her time. She was a student of Mary Baldwin College and the University of Chicago. She lived in places such as Chicago; Chautauqua, New York; and Tulsa, Oklahoma, but called Houston her home for the last 25 years of her life.
Mrs. Chenoweth gave countless lectures on women’s dress and grooming and their importance in a successful, happy life. In the late 1920s, she was a prominent lecturer and writer regarding the problems of women at the Chautauqua Institution. In 1930 she published a compilation of her lectures in a booklet entitled Clothes and Happiness. Throughout the 1930's she had a "personal problems" radio program in Chicago first called the Homemaking Hour which later became known as Little Dramas from Life. During her time in Chicago, she also wrote an advice-giving newspaper column.
In addition to lecturing, Mrs. Chenoweth was active in organizations such as the League of American Pen Women, the Daughters of the American Revolution, Association of University Women and was a life member of the Huguenot Society of South Carolina. She was also active in affairs of the Presbyterian Church.
Mrs. Chenoweth died in March of 1960 at the age of 85 after battling a long illness. She was survived by her one son Robert Carey Chenoweth and four grandchildren.
Leonor Villegas de Magnón, daughter of Joaquín and Helosia Villegas, was born in Nuevo Laredo, Mexico on June 12, 1876. Educated at the Ursuline Convent in San Antonio and later the Academy of the Holy Cross in Austin, she received a teaching degree in 1895 from the Academy of Mount Saint Ursula in New York City. She married Adolfo Magnón, an American citizen, and the couple had three children, Leonor, Joaquín, and Adolfo. Leonor’s father left Mexico at the outbreak of the Mexican revolution, and when he died in 1910 the war prevented Leonor from returning to Mexico after his funeral. She stayed in Laredo, Texas where she opened a Kindergarten in her home.
Sympathetic to Francisco Madero and his opposition to the Díaz administration, Magnón, along with her friend Jovita Idar, wrote for La Crónica, a Laredo Spanish language newspaper published by Nicasio Idar. When war broke out again in Mexico in 1913 and Nuevo Laredo was attacked, Idar and Magnón crossed the Rio Grande to help nurse the wounded. Leonor then formed and financed La Cruz Blanca (the White Cross) to provide more organized medical assistance and medical supplies to wounded soldiers. Eventually she transformed her home, garage and school into a hospital for soldiers who crossed the border. Unfortunately, American army officials accused her of violating neutrality laws and took many of the soldiers into custody at Fort McIntosh. Leonor hired a lawyer in order to secure their release and after a time Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan ordered the state to comply. Later on, Leonor and twenty five other nurses joined Venustiano Carranza’s army and continued their work with La Cruz Blanca. She was awarded five medals for her work during the Revolution, and in the post war years continued her social and political activism. She opened a bilingual school for children in Laredo and founded a community action women’s organization, La unión de progreso, y caridad. She also worked for the State Democratic executive committee, Women’s Division of Texas in the 1930s. In the 1940s she returned to Mexico, where she was part of the Club internacional de mujeres, working for official recognition for the nurse veterans of the revolution. Eventually Leonor Villegas de Magnón returned to Laredo, where she died on April 17, 1955.
Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. was founded in September 1992 by brothers Shawn and Aaron Brauch in Houston, TX. The Brauch brothers got their start in the music business by working for Rap-A-Lot Records in Houston before recognizing that demand for their graphic design work was high enough for them to start their own company.
Pen & Pixel was innovative in its wide use of Photoshop to create CD covers filled with layers of special effects, highly stylized lettering, and plenty of “bling” (flashy jewelry, expensive clothes, luxury cars, and piles of cash). The company became associated mainly with rap and hip hop musicians in the 1990s, working with renowned artists such as Master P and Lil Wayne and record labels such as No Limit Records and Cash Money Records.
In addition to CD covers, Pen & Pixel also produced artwork for posters, logos, and videos.
Carey Chenoweth Shuart, a Houston native, is well known in the University of Houston community for her volunteer endeavors and welcome donations. She has been instrumental in initiating many positive changes and developments at the University. In 1991, she joined a steering committee of UH volunteers who established and edited the UFriends newsletter for UH Community circulation. She successfully advocated for the Honor’s Program to become the Honor’s College in 1992, and founded and served on its advisory board for almost six years.
Most recently, Carey Shuart was a founder and President of Friends of the UH Women’s Studies Program from 1992 to 1999 and currently serves on the Friends of Women’s Studies Advisory Board. She played a significant role, in conjunction with Cynthia Freeland, the original WOST Director, and her successor Elizabeth Gregory, in the financial development, growth and advancement of the UH Women’s Studies Program and the establishment and funding of the thriving Women’s Archive and Research Center (WARC).
Mrs. Shuart has been acquainted with a number of interesting and productive women, including the late Governor Ann Richards, the late UH President Marguerite Ross Barnett and the late columnist Molly Ivins. She was a member Ann Richards’ Leadership Council in 1991. A member of the UH External Relations Committee under the first woman President Marguerite Ross Barnett, Shuart inherited Dr. Barnett’s presidential desk upon her untimely death in 1992.
Carey Shuart’s dedication and generosity to the University of Houston continue to be made manifest with abundant volunteer service and timely donations. These have been acknowledged with the 1992 Outstanding Volunteer Award from the Division of University Relations and the Alumni Chair’s Award from the University of Houston Alumni Association in 2009. This very good friend of WARC in particular and UH in general has also been recognized in Who’s Who in American Women, Who’s Who in America, and Who’s Who in the World.
Professor Laura Oren received her first degree from Queens College, The City University of New York in 1966 as a Magna Cum Laude graduate. She holds a Ph.D. in British History from Yale University and graduated first in her class from the University of Houston Law Center in 1980. After graduation, she worked in private practice, specializing in civil rights law and appellate work.
As a University of Houston Law Center faculty, she teaches Family Law and Constitutional Law and most of her work has often been about the intersection of these two fields. Additionally, she teaches Women and the Law, Conflict of Laws, and State and Local Government Law. Her specialty areas of research are in Civil Rights and Family Law.
In addition to her work as a lawyer and a professor of law, Oren has been very active in the women’s rights movement. She was involved with the National Organization for Women, the National Women’s Conference in Houston, and the Houston Area Feminist Federal Credit Union.
HAWK, also known as H.A.W.K. or Big Hawk, was born John Edward Hawkins in Houston on November 15, 1969. Both HAWK and his brother Patrick Lamark Hawkins, known as Fat Pat, became members of the Screwed Up Click, a group of Houston area rappers centered around the work of DJ Screw. HAWK often worked with DJ Screw to contribute raps to DJ Screw’s famous gray tapes, and he collaborated with Fat Pat, DJ Screw, and others to form the group Dead End Alliance (D.E.A) and Dead End Records.
HAWK released his first solo album, Under H.A.W.K.’s Wings, with Dead End Records in 2000. In 2002, he released his second album, HAWK.
On April 9, 2006, HAWK married his longtime girlfriend, Meshah Hawkins. Shortly thereafter, in May 2006, HAWK was shot and killed. His murder is unsolved.
Burdette Watts Keeland, Jr. was an influential Houston architect. He was well known for his design work, his service as an educator, his long tenure on the City of Houston Planning Commission, and his community involvement with the Park People and other groups.
Keeland was born in Mart, Texas on February 2, 1926, but moved with his family to Houston six months later. He attended Lamar High School, graduating in 1943. He enrolled at Texas A&M University briefly before enlisting in the U.S. Army Air Corps in 1944. He served with U.S. occupation forces in Japan and was discharged in mid 1946. After another short stay at Texas A&M, he enrolled at the University of Houston in the architecture program. In 1947 he married Margaret Scott ("Margie"). From 1950 to 1957 they had four children: Margaret, Burdette III, Ruth, and Bonnie.
Keeland received a Bachelor's degree from the University of Houston in 1950. He began teaching design there in 1954 and was an influential member of the faculty until his death in 2000. He was briefly on the faculty at Rice University and served as lecturer and guest design critic at other noted architecture schools in the United States and Mexico City. Professional organizations recognized Keeland's distinguished teaching career on several occasions. He received outstanding educator awards from the American Institute of Architects, Houston Chapter, in 1987, and the Texas Society of Architects in 1993. In 1992 he was honored at the University of Houston Architecture Alumni Association's Burdette Keeland Roast. In 2000 he was the subject of a retrospective exhibition of his work at the University of Houston's College of Architecture.
His long career at the university was also significant because of his association with Howard Barnstone. An important Houston architect, Barnstone was Keeland's close friend and colleague until Barnstone's death in 1987. In the early 1950s he introduced Keeland to Houston art collectors and philanthropists John and Dominique de Menil and to New York architect Philip Johnson. These relationships had a profound effect on Keeland for the rest of his life. In 1959 Barnstone was also instrumental in Keeland's admission to the graduate architecture program at Barnstone's alma mater, Yale University. Of his many accomplishments, Keeland was perhaps most proud of his role in 1981 to secure for Philip Johnson the commission to design the new building for the College of Architecture. (Among the oversized memorabilia in the collection is the large construction sign for the building, given to Keeland when it was completed.)
In 1964 Mayor Louie Welch appointed Keeland to the Houston Planning Commission. Keeland became chairman in 1981 and served in that capacity until 1991. On January 31 of that year the city honored him by proclaiming the day "Burdette Keeland Day." He was a tireless advocate of the benefits of urban planning, including land-use zoning, a position that was not always popular in the city.
Keeland was a prolific designer and had a successful practice, particularly from 1950 to 1980. Although he never obtained state licensing as an architect, he was well respected by his peers. Over several decades his projects were published consistently in national and international magazines and won a number of design awards.
His career as a designer can be broken into several periods. In the 1950s, influenced by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Philip Johnson, Keeland's work followed the Miesian aesthetic of flat-roof pavilions defined by an exposed steel frame. While several examples of this period survive, the best is the Meyerland Parade of Homes House (1955) on Jackwood Street, designed for homebuilder W. K. "Buck" King.
His year at Yale from 1959-60 exposed him to the ideas of other nationally-known architects, such as Paul Rudolph and Louis Kahn. As a result, in the 1960s his work was less predictable, as he explored a number of other approaches to modern architecture. An important example of his work of this decade was his Essex-Houck office building (1961; demolished 1990s), an homage to Louis Kahn.
During the 1970s Keeland moved from architectural design into real estate development, as he adopted the model of a design-build practice. He developed several townhouse complexes in his Kirby Drive-area neighborhood of Houston. They are remarkable for their sensitive scale and relationship to the street. However, his most significant building of this period was the large 4101 Greenbriar office building (1975), which he designed and developed in partnership with other investors.
He also designed the proposed 4141 Greenbriar Building (1983) to be built next door, but Houston's economic depression of the 1980s halted the project. There was little private or commercial construction in the city during this time and Keeland's professional practice suffered. A highlight of the period, however, was his remodeling of his family's residence at 2907 Ferndale St. (1986) with its three-story tower and fanciful supporting column.
In 1986, Keeland suffered a heart attack, the first of a series of health problems to slow him in the last decade of his life. During the 1990s he undertook several residential projects and helped host a number of fund-raisers for the College of Architecture. At two of those, in 1994 and 1998, he welcomed his friend Philip Johnson as guest of honor.
After architecture, Keeland's greatest passion was cemeteries, an interest he developed on a trip to Milan in the late 1960s. There he was inspired by a graveyard filled with interesting and varied funerary monuments. For the rest of his life he studied and documented cemeteries around the world and collected material for a book on the subject, which was never published. He advocated an enlightened approach to these places, suggesting that the living treat them as park space. Keeland invested some of his creative energy in designing headstones and monuments, a number of which were executed for clients. He created a line of designer tombs for a Texas monument company. His largest project was an addition to the Cedarvale Cemetery in Bay City, Texas in the early 1990s. In 1994 his unusual interest earned him feature stories in a number of regional newspapers and a profile in Texas Monthly magazine the following year.
Burdette Keeland, Jr. died on May 26, 2000.
Carlos Garza was born in Mexico and moved to Houston with his family in the 1970s. As a teenager in Bellaire, he fell in love with hip hop music and culture. In the mid-1980s Carlos began break dancing under the name DJ Pace Master. He and a few friends formed the Dynamic Crew, a break dancing group which performed at parties and participated in contests. After a year of break dancing, he decided to switch to DJing and began performing under the name DJ Styles. In 1986, Carlos began working at Soundwaves and, due to his love of the genre, was put in charge of ordering all of the hip hop music. This role allowed him to develop relationships with major hip hop record labels, which came in handy when he started working as a hip hop music producer. Garza has worked as a producer for hip hop artists such as the Odd Squad, Devin the Dude, and the Coughee Brothaz, and continues producing, mixing, and mastering hip hop music to this day.
Sources:
Faniel, Maco L. “Hip-Hop in Houston: The Origin and the Legacy.” The History Press. 2013
DJ Screw was born Robert Earl Davis, Jr. on July 20, 1971, and he began DJing and making mixtapes as a teenager while living on the Southside of Houston. By the early 1990s, Davis began to develop his innovative “chopped and screwed” technique of using recording technology to repeat phrases (a process known as chopping) and slow a song’s tempo (known as screwing). Davis became known as DJ Screw and distributed “screw tapes” featuring his technique.
As the popularity of the “chopped and screwed” technique grew, DJ Screw began to receive requests to make tapes tailored for friends and local rappers, often to celebrate an event such as a birthday. These tapes would include a selection of slowed down tracks, shoutouts by DJ Screw, and freestyles by rappers over the beats at the beginning and end of the tapes. To create the “chopped and screwed” effect on these tapes, DJ Screw simultaneously played two copies of the same record on a turntable and slowed each down using the turntable’s pitch control function. He then used the crossfader to switch between the records to repeat beats, words, and phrases. This process would create a master cassette. DJ Screw would then slow the tempo further by using a four-track’s pitch control function to manipulate the master cassettes and produce the final tape. He began selling copies of these “screw tapes” or “grey tapes” (so called because of their color) from his home.
The screw tapes helped to develop the careers of numerous local rappers, who would subsequently become known as the Screwed Up Click (S.U.C.). Prominent members of the S.U.C. included the Botany Boys, Fat Pat, HAWK, Lil’ Keke, E.S.G., Big Pokey, Big Moe, Lil’ O, Al-D, Yungstar, and Lil’ Flip. The music of the S.U.C. often addressed local culture, particularly the city’s custom car culture and the use of recreational drugs, especially marijuana and codeine.
DJ Screw achieved broader popularity in the mid-1990s, and he continued to sell tapes while releasing four studio albums on Bigtyme Recordz: “All Screwed Up,” “3 'N The Mornin' (Part One),” “3 'N The Mornin' (Part Two),” and “I Wanna Get High with Da Blanksta.” As a member of Dead End Alliance (D.E.A.) with Fat Pat, HAWK and Kay-K, he also appeared on the album “Screwed for Life.” In 1998, DJ Screw opened the store Screwed Up Records and Tapes in order to meet demand for his mixtapes.
On November 16, 2000, DJ Screw was found dead in his recording studio at the age of 29. His death was ruled an overdose of codeine and other drugs. The “chopped and screwed” genre that he created continues to influence recording artists, both locally and nationally, and his legacy is honored by fans around the world.
Sources:
DJ Screw: The Untold Story. Double Platinum - Come Fly With Me, 2006. DVD.
DJ Screw Photographs & Memorabilia Digital Collection description. University of Houston Digital Library. 20 March 2013. http://digital.lib.uh.edu/collection/djscrew
Peter Beste is a documentary photographer originally from Houston and now based in New Mexico and New York City. In the early 2000s, he spent six years working on his book True Norwegian Black Metal, for which he photographed several Norwegian black metal bands. After that project, he brought this documentary approach back to his hometown to explore the development of Houston hip hop.
Houston Rap, published in 2013 by Sinecure Press, is the joint creation of Beste and Lance Scott Walker. The product of nearly a decade of work, it documents Houston’s hip hop community, particularly in the Third Ward, Fifth Ward, and South Park neighborhoods. Comprised of photographs by Beste interspersed with excerpts from interviews conducted by Walker, the book features a wide swath of rappers, producers, and other members of Houston’s hip hop community. The rappers run the gamut from the very famous, like Bun B and Geto Boys, to the virtually unknown. The photographs often show the subjects in unguarded personal moments, revealing a world very unlike what the public sees on album covers and promotional materials. The interviews provide further insight into the communities and stories described in the artists’ lyrics.
Lance Scott Walker is a journalist, and native Texan, who has written for many publications, including the Houston Chronicle, Houston Press, USA Today, and RollingStone.com. Extended versions of the oral histories conducted by Walker for Houston Rap can be found in its companion, Houston Rap Tapes.
Steve Fournier moved to Houston as an adolescent in the late 1960s. Fournier began DJing professionally in the late 1970s, quickly becoming a fixture in the Houston night club scene. He DJed at several prominent Houston clubs, including Struts Disco, the Boneshaker, and the Rhinestone Wrangler. An avid rap music fan, Fournier was a driving force behind its increasing presence in the clubs, slipping more and more hip hop into his mixes and hosting live rap contests. Fournier also founded the Rap Pool of America in 1985, which became the largest rap record pool in the country. It began with 30 DJs who paid him a monthly fee in return for the latest hip hop albums, and eventually grew to over 200 members. The Rap Pool of America ended in 1998, but Fournier continued working in the rap industry as a consultant to record companies and major labels until about 2002. Although he is now working in a field completely outside the music industry, Fournier still has a strong interest in hip hop and stays involved through occasional consulting and by speaking at music seminars and conferences.
Sources:
Faniel, Maco L. “Hip-Hop in Houston: The Origin and the Legacy.” The History Press. 2013.
Engineer Keenan “Maestro” Mosley, born in 1958 and originally from Philadelphia, opened his Samplified Digital Recording Studios in Missouri City around 1990. There he recorded artists such as DJ Screw, K-Rino, Point Blank, BAM, the Terrorists, Klondike Kat, Big 50, and many others. National recording artists such as Run-DMC, Ice T, Master P, and Spice 1 also stopped into Samplified Studios to record while they were performing in Houston. Samplified Digital Recording Studios was in business for over a decade, until it stopped getting clients around 2003. Mosley, who went by the professional name Keenan Lyles, died in 2010 at the age of fifty-two. He was survived by his son Kendall Mosley, who raps as Chane.
Special Collections collects and preserves historically significant materials. Its holdings comprise a rare book collection and ten main archival collecting areas. In some instances, Special Collections gathers materials on a single topic to preserve them and make them available. In these cases, Special Collections is seen as the creator of the artificially constructed collection.
The Houston Hip Hop Collecting Area was launched in 2010. Its associated collections document and preserve the history of Houston hip hop through the papers of rappers and DJs, as well as the records of related businesses.
Emilio R. Ypiñia (1905-1936) was a self-educated Mexican national born in Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, Mexico, Ypiñia immigrated to Houston, Texas, following the Mexican Revolution of 1910.
Mary Fernandez Lopez was born Mary Fernandez on September 26, 1921 in Brownsville, Texas, but would spend most of her life in Houston. It was in Houston where she would marry, have four children, and participate in social justice issues related to Hispanic Americans.
Mary wed Jose Rivera Lopez on May 17, 1942 at Camp Blanding near the city of Starke, Florida shortly after he joined the Army. The couple lived briefly in Massachusetts before returning to Houston and starting a family in 1943. Primarily a homemaker until her children were raised, Ms. Lopez was consistently involved in advocating for the Mexican-American community in the Magnolia Park.
After working mainly secretarial positions Bovay Engineering and later University of Texas Medical Branch, Mary graduated with her business degree from the University of Houston.  For a time, she also helped manage her family’s business, the Lopez Bakery in Magnolia Park before selling it in the 1960s.
Lopez was involved with the Viva-Kennedy Campaign, the Political Association for Spanish Speaking Organizations (PASO), and other efforts related to improving conditions for Houston’s Latino community.  Mary F. Lopez died in July 2015.
Andrew Brown is a Texas music historian who primarily writes biographies and histories of music artists and record labels for books, magazines, and album liner notes. Brown has also conducted interviews for major Texas music figures, including Huey Meaux.
Sources:
Artist Direct: http://www.artistdirect.com/artist/bio/andrew-brown/2573116
KUHT-TV debuted on May 25, 1953, as America's first educational television station. Since then it has served as a model for other educational television stations. Its main goal is to provide quality programming to students, faculty, and the entire community. KUHT predates the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) and the Public Broadcasting System (PBS). Its history includes award-winning local and national productions, including a national Emmy Award for excellence. KUHT is licensed to the University of Houston, and is located in the LeRoy and Lucile Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting located at 4343 Elgin, on the northeast corner of the main campus.
Special Collections collects and preserves historically significant materials. Its holdings comprise a rare book collection and ten main archival collecting areas. In some instances, Special Collections gathers materials on a single topic to preserve them and make them available. In these cases, Special Collections is seen as the creator of the artificially constructed collection.
The original Frontier Fiesta was only presented in 1940 and 1941 and conceived by Dr. Kemmerer, who later became president. The monies raised at the first Fiesta, $2,000, contributed to the construction of a campus recreation building. During World War II Frontier Fiesta took a hiatus, but resumed with vigor in 1946. Frontier Fiesta was held in "Fiesta City," which was built each year by students. The buildings each housed different productions. Concessions and contests, including a beard growing contest, were also part of the events.
During its heyday Frontier Fiesta would attract as many as 100,000 people to the UH campus including celebrities and visitors from all over the nation. The 1955 Fiesta signed over a check for $106,000 to help pay for the University's swimming pool. By the early 1950s Frontier Fiesta had been proclaimed as the "Greatest College Show on Earth."
For a variety of reasons, probably including students missing classes and concerns about budget management, Frontier Fiesta was discontinued after 1959. Although briefly replaced in 1961 by Cougar Capers, it would be 33 years before Frontier Fiesta would return to the University of Houston. In 1992 a group of alumni joined an energetic group of student leaders to resurrect the long-gone tradition. This group along with the University of Houston's Athletic Department brought Fiesta back to the campus where it had begun. Frontier Fiesta celebrates everything that makes the University of Houston important to the Houston community today – the talent and leadership ability of its students, the opportunity to educate Houston's future leaders, and scholarship opportunities for deserving students.
Lynn Randolph is an artist, feminist, and human rights activist whose work spans the past four decades, from the 1960s to the 21st century. Reared in the refinery town of Port Arthur, Texas, she obtained a BFA from the University of Texas at Austin in 1961. After receiving her degree she moved to Houston, where she has lived and worked ever since. Randolph’s paintings have been exhibited widely in the United States and reproductions of her work have appeared in books, journals, and academic papers throughout the world.
In the late 1980s, Randolph received several important awards. In the summer of 1987 she went to Yaddo, the artists colony in Saratoga Springs, New York. In the summer of 1989 she started a year-long residence at The Bunting Institute (now the Radcliffe Institute) in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Lynn Randolph's paintings have been in well over fifty exhibitions. Her one-person exhibitions have been scarcer, because she works slowly and meticulously. She calls her work metaphoric realism. The paintings have been predominantly figurative, until the last eight years when she started painting images of the Texas coast. Her most recent work uses birds as metaphors for angels, inspiration, and witnessing. Occasionally she is moved to address specific cultural and political injustices, as in her painting entitled "The Coronation of St. George," which was reproduced on the cover of The Nation magazine during the Republican convention in New York in 2004. Another painting depicting the administration of George W. Bush called "Scenes from Hell," was also published in the Nation as a full-page, color reproduction in 2007.
Randolph's paintings are in the permanent collection of several major museums and institutions, including The National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, D.C.; the Radcliffe Institute at Harvard University; the Menil Collection in Houston; the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; the San Antonio Museum of Fine Arts and the Arizona State University Museum of Arts in Tempe.
From 1990 to 1996 Randolph engaged in a collaboration with the cultural critic Donna Haraway. This work was a dialogue of specific ideas and critiques relating to the use of technoscience at the end of the millennium and formed the images and text for Haraway’s book, "Modest_Witness@Second_Millennium. FemaleMan_Meets_OncoMouse." Many of these images have been reproduced internationally in books, journals, and academic papers. Randolph has also presented numerous lectures and conference speeches across the United States since the early 1980s.
Throughout her professional life Lynn Randolph has been involved with civil and human rights issues. When her children were young and their school was integrated, causing "white flight" from the neighborhood public school, she stayed put. She wrote lesson plans for grades one to six and trained forty volunteers to teach art to all of Poe School's students. It is now a fine arts magnet school with a paid art teacher. She was a charter member and chapter president of the Houston Women's Caucus for Art, and served as the regional vice-president for the national board. In 1988 she co-chaired the national meetings of the Women's Caucus for Art that occurred in Houston. In 1984 she and her friend Suzanne Bloom were co-organizers in Houston for Artist Call against U.S. intervention in Central America, an organization based in New York City.
In 1992 Randolph became a member of WAC, the Women's Action Coalition, also a New York group. She helped organize the group's actions in Houston during the Republican convention. WAC brought its drum corps to demonstrate during the convention, and Randolph helped WAC add more drummers from Houston. The Houston drum corps continued long after the convention. They were known as the Ilusas (deluded women) and Randolph performed with them until they disbanded in 1997.
In 1993 Lynn Randolph went to El Salvador with curator and museum director Marilyn Zeitlin to help organize an exhibition of Salvadoran artists called "Art Under Duress: El Salvador from 1980 to Present." The show was mounted at Arizona State University Museum with a catalogue and video tapes. It traveled to Houston and was shown at Lawndale Art Center where Randolph was a member of the artist board until the 1990s.
Lynn Randolph is currently an Artist-in-Residence at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center where she works with patients and staff in the Palliative Care Unit.
In the 1970s, Charles Botts began collecting, preserving, and archiving documents, publications, and other items of historical significance to the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) communities of Houston , southeast Texas, and the United States. He did so informally and eventually under the roof of the Resurrection Metropolitan Community Church (RMCC) of Houston, Texas. Mr. Botts amassed a significant collection of items related to the LGBT community and its history. Upon his death in 1994, a handful of dedicated volunteers continued Charles Botts’ work. Larry Criscione became active at this time and is primarily responsible for the expansion of the collection. A great effort was made to assure that the collection is accessible and useful to students, researchers, and journalists needing access to this unique body of information. The volunteers have also put together displays from the materials for numerous functions, in order to educate the public on different aspects of LGBT History.
In 2001 tropical storm Allison flooded large portions of Houston. The church library including the LGBT material collected by Charles Botts were affected as was everything in the church. It was after this storm that Leif Hatlen became involved with the collection. Due to water damage caused by the storm, some of the library materials was destroyed, much of the rest of the materials was water damaged and any system of filing or sorting was lost. Leif began to re-sort the materials, developing lists and indexes in the process. Later in 2005, Mike Kelley (now deceased) began to volunteer with the collection and developed computerized indexes that has been used for the magazines and to organize the individual collections.
In 2011, when it became apparent that Resurrection church’s goals and intentions with respect to the collection differed from those of the volunteers, Larry Criscione formed and incorporated the Botts Collection of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender History, Inc. (Botts Collection). The organization moved to a new location and continues collecting and cataloging items of historical importance to the region’s LGBT community.
Tennessee Gas (later Tenneco) and its Tennessee pipeline were elements of one of the largest diversified companies in the world. Wade Thompson founded Tenneco Gas shortly after the discovery of natural gas in 1933 in Macon County, Tennessee. In 1943 Henry Gardiner Symonds became the first president of the newly established Tennessee Gas Transmission Company (renamed Tenneco in 1966) in Houston.
A significant aspect of this collection of Tenneco records is the management and planning documents, notes, and speeches accumulated by Joe B. Foster, who held positions with Tenneco for thirty-one years. Among his roles with Tenneco, Foster served as chairman of Tenneco Oil Company, executive vice president of Tenneco Inc., and chairman of Tenneco Gas Pipeline Group. Foster left Tenneco in 1988
Foster graduated from Texas A&M University in 1957 with a B.S. in petroleum engineering and B.B.A. in business administration; he joined Tenneco as a junior petroleum engineer in Oklahoma City the same year. In 1968, Foster became Chief of Planning and Economic Analysis for Tenneco Oil Exploration and Production in Houston and assumed the role of president of Tenneco Oil in 1978. When the Tenneco board divested Tenneco Oil in 1988, Foster retired and founded the Newfield Exploration Company, serving as its chief executive officer until 2000.
Foster’s personal notes, speeches, presentations, and his contributions to the development of a history of Tenneco reveal his keen interest in planning and his personal ruminations on the processes of management. His speech development notes and collected sources and the subsequent speeches Foster delivered to Tenneco management groups, professional conferences, and non-profit gatherings offer insight into multiple responsibilities of leadership.
AIA Houston is the local chapter of the American Institute of Architects. AIA Houston is a community of architects coming together to accomplish things in our practices and in our communities that no single architect can do alone.
AIA Houston Goals: Include others as we strive to enhance professional excellence and quality of life in Houston; connect our industry and our community through the development of leadership and research; support member value with a nimble and innovative chapter organization.
Sources:
https://aiahouston.org/v/about/
Royal Dixon was a well-regarded naturalist in the early twentieth century. He was born in Huntsville, Texas to Elijah and Francis Elizabeth Dixon. The date of his birth has been contested and ranges anywhere from 1880 to 1885. He began his academic career at Sam Houston State Teachers College then on to the Morgan Park Academy, Chicago. Later, he was a special student at Chicago University and Columbia University. He served as the N.Y. Curator for the Department of Botany, Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago (1905-1910) and as a columnist for the Houston Chronicle (1910-1927). He also began the Dixon School Creative Writing which were primarily classes taught in his home. He was the founder of the First Church for Animal Rights. Dixon was active in working to increase rights for immigrants in the United States and wrote several essays asking for increased rights for the immigrant community. He lived much of his adult life with his partner Chester Snowden, a well-regarded local artist. Snowden worked with Dixon frequently by contributing work for his writing. After a debilitating car accident, Snowden took over as Dixon’s power of attorney and handled all of Dixon’s affairs.
He published several works on the role of nature in society including The Human Side of Plants, The Human Side of Animals, The Human Side of Birds and The Human Side of Trees. Dixon also wrote several short stories.
A native of Mississippi, Sybil Pittman Estess received her Ph.D. from Syracuse University. In the years that followed, her writing career resulted in five collections of poems, a biography of Elizabeth Bishop, a creative writing textbook, and numerous additional poems in edited volumes. Dr. Estess taught classes at the University of Houston, the University of St. Thomas, Rice University, Houston Community College, Blinn Colleges, as well as for Inprint and the C. G. Jung Center. She was nominated for Poet Laureate of the State of Texas in 2015.
The Detering family has lived and worked in the Houston area for over a century, owning numerous Houston properties and several long-standing businesses. Herman Eberhard Detering (1862-1927) moved from Germany to Houston, Texas in 1881. Upon moving to Houston, his first job was working for Henke’s Grocery. Soon after, Detering purchased a lot at 3028 Washington Avenue, where he opened the Detering General Store. He married Helena “Lina” Stuer in 1891, and they made their home above the store. The five Detering children, Alma, Elsa Anna, Herman Eberhard, Carl August, and Lenora Lina, were all born at home on Washington Avenue. In 1895, Mr. Detering bought another business, the Houston Broom Factory, and located it behind the grocery store, on Center Street. The grocery store was closed in approximately 1913, after the family moved to McGowen Street. Herman Eberhard Detering also became a real estate entrepreneur early on, buying and selling land all over the Houston area. According to family lore, Eberhard believed Houston waterways would be used for transportation but did not know which bayous would be important, so he bought on all of them. He had several real estate partnerships, including Bottler & Detering and Kalb & Detering.
The Detering children continued in the family businesses and real estate ventures. In 1926, Carl Detering opened The Detering Company, a provider of building materials and supplies, in the same location as their father’s grocery store. He was joined shortly thereafter by his brother, Herman. Alma Detering kept an office at the Detering Company as well, and ran the Houston Broom Factory from there until its closure in the 1940s. Alma also oversaw the accounting for the family’s other businesses and properties during this time. The Woodridge Company (a partnership between Herman and Carl) and Carl Detering Developer (a business in which Alma and Herman were also heavily involved) are two examples of businesses created by the Detering children to manage real estate development. Other companies associated with the Detering family included the Detering Concrete Tile Company, Turning Basin Development Company, the Detering Company of Beaumont, Inc., and the Detering Galleries.
Olive Hershey was born in Houston, Texas in 1941, the daughter of Jacob W. and Olive Hershey. She attended Connecticut College from 1958-60; University of Texas at Austin, receiving a B.A. in 1968, M.A. in 1970, and  Ph.D. in 1978; and University of Houston’s Creative Writing Program, receiving an M.A. in 1987. While at the University of Houston, Hershey studied under American novelist Donald Barthelme. She published Face Up, a book of poetry, in 1984 and the novel Truck Dance (originally her University of Houston thesis) in 1984.
James A. Tinsley was a UH history professor specializing in Texas history for 42 years. In addition, Tinsley served as executive director of the Texas Gulf Coast Historical Association and in that capacity brought the Joseph S. Cullinan papers to UH Special Collections. Tinsley’s publications include The Progressive Movement in Texas and Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants; a history. He also edited Select Letters of Harris Kempner, 1837-1894 and Growth of the Business of Anderson, Clayton & Co. Tinsley died in 2007 at the age of 83.
“The Immanuel and Helen Olshan Texas Music Festival ® was founded in 1990 to provide young professional musicians with a challenging musical environment in which to develop skills in orchestral, chamber music, and solo performance. The intensive four-week orchestral fellowship program on the University of Houston campus is guided by renowned guest conductors, members of Houston’s orchestras, faculty from the Moores and Shepherd schools of music, and other distinguished artists.
TMF also offers instructional institutes for musicians ranging in age from junior high to adult in a variety of specialty areas (voice, flute, piano & jazz). Each institute is highly selective and students are chosen by auditions and/or teacher recommendations. Institute instructors include world-class performers and teachers that come from Houston, other major cities in Texas, and from throughout the world. Institute participants are involved in large ensemble rehearsals, sectionals, lessons, coachings, and musicianship classes. Additionally, each of these institutes culminate in a final performance and many offer multiple performing opportunities.” Source: University of Houston, Immanuel & Helen Olshan Texas Music Festival, http://www.uh.edu/class/music/tmf/
O.C. McDavid was born on May 30, 1911 in Ruth, Mississippi.  At the urging of his high school English teacher, McDavid forged a non-traditional path into a career in the newspaper industry.  He secured his first job sweeping up the print shop at the Enterprise Journal while in high school.  As his responsibilities grew to include running the print shop as well as writing, he attended high school part-time so that he could pursue his new career full-time.
McDavid’s career took an unexpected turn as the United States’ involvement in World War II became imminent.  As a member of the National Guard, McDavid received his federal induction and was quickly tapped to publish a camp newspaper named The Dixie.  After the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor, McDavid was stationed in the South Pacific.  There, in New Guinea, McDavid was placed in charge of establishing village governments with the local population and helped to provide local services such as sanitation, security, and health.
Following the war, McDavid returned to the newspaper industry, finally retiring at the age of 70.  He turned his time and energies to sculpting and painting, earning the George Ohr Public Service Award (honoring Mississippians who have supported crafts as art) in 1976.
He died on March 12, 1998 in Jackson, Mississippi.  The following year the Mississippi Press Association established an annual student journalism conference in his name.
This is Our Home, It Is Not for Sale is a documentary film produced by Jon Schwartz.
Jon Schwartz grew up in a neighborhood contiguous to Riverside, and produced his three-hour documentary as something of a paean to the beauty and complexity of Riverside as it was and as it evolved. Schwartz earned a degree in film and moved to the West Coast, but he found the inspiration for his film project in a 1983 photography exhibit at the Houston Public Library. Schwartz's research for the film included 300 preliminary interviews plus magazine articles and academic papers on Houston. Schwartz was remarkably successful in raising funds to produce his film, engaging the interest not only of funding organizations but also former and current residents of Riverside.
Schwartz's film traces the history of Houston's Riverside neighborhood from land grant to inner city neighborhood. Boundaries of Riverside are defined in the film as Alabama Street on the north, University of Houston on the east, Old Spanish Trail on the south, and Almeda Road on the west. Schwartz tells the story of Riverside through interviews, photos, and home movies. Informally known as the Jewish River Oaks, Riverside became an idyllic neighborhood close to downtown. Riverside was an all-white neighborhood until 1952 when the first black family moved in; white flight followed. Real estate agents working house-to-house encouraged owners to sell, but many residents resisted the inclination to move and posted yard signs stating "This is Our Home, It's Not for Sale." Transformation became inevitable for a constellation of reasons. Intrusions into the neighborhood included Highway 288 and the Harris County Psychiatric Center. By the conclusion of the time period covered in the film (mid-1980s), Riverside was a multi-ethnic neighborhood, combining characteristics of a peaceful wooded residential area with the conflicts of an integrated urban neighborhood.
Cynthia Lee Macdonald was born in New York City in 1928 to Leonard Lee and Dorothy Kiam Lee. Significantly, her younger sister Virginia, to whom Cynthia was very close in age, died of scarlet fever at 5 or 6 years old. Macdonald’s parents divorced in 1940 and both eventually remarried. Leonard, a Hollywood scriptwriter for movies and television, lived in Los Angeles, while Dorothy returned to New York; Macdonald spent time on both coasts throughout her childhood and teen years.
Macdonald earned her Bachelor’s degree from Bennington College in Vermont in 1950. She married E.C. Macdonald in 1954 and had two children, Jennifer and Scott. Her budding career as an opera singer gave way to her poetry writing, prompting her enrollment at Sarah Lawrence College in New York to earn her Master’s degree in writing in 1970.
A career as a writing teacher soon followed. After teaching first at Sarah Lawrence College, then at Johns Hopkins University, she co-founded with Stanley Plumly the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston in 1979. She taught at UH until her retirement in the mid-2000s, receiving the Esther Farfel Award for faculty excellence along the way.
Macdonald became a widely published and award-winning poet. Her first of seven books of poetry, Amputations, was published in 1972, and she had individual poems published in dozens and dozens of esteemed magazines and journals such at The New Yorker, The Paris Review, and The Yale Review. Among the many honors and awards that Macdonald received for her writing were a Guggenheim Fellowship and the O.B. Hardison, Jr. Poetry Prize.
Macdonald was also a practicing psychoanalyst for many years, and a faculty member of the Houston-Galveston Psychoanalytic Institute.
Though born in New York, Cynthia Macdonald comes from old Houston stock: Her mother Dorothy was born in Houston in 1906 to Edward Kiam and Fanny Tim Kiam. The Kiam family had been in the city as far back as the mid-to-late 1800s. In 1893, Edward Kiam opened a clothing store in downtown Houston in a five-story brick building that still stands and is still known as “The Kiam Building” at 320 Main Street.
William C. Moffit was a band director of national importance, whose contributions to musical education gained many honors.  He was born in Canton, Ohio on May 13, 1925 and joined the Coast Guard after high school, where he played in the Coast Guard Band.  After the end of World War II, he attended Baldwin Wallace College on the GI Bill and attained his degree in 1950.  He taught in the public school systems of Ohio and Michigan for ten years before joining the faculty at Michigan State University as a band director, where he taught for nine years.  In 1969 he became the Director of the University of Houston Marching Band, where he taught until 1981.  Bill Moffit resigned from the University of Houston to take a job at Purdue University, where he taught until his early retirement in 1988. After retiring, he founded the Jacksonville Community Concert Band in Jacksonville, Florida. He is the author of Soundpower, a collection of more than 450 arrangements for marching band and the Patterns of Motion concept in marching.  Bill Moffit was the Director of the Fanfare Trumpets at the 1984 Olympics and the Director of the Fanfare Trumpets at the Pan American Games in 1986.  The recipient of many honors and awards, he was nominated for the presentation of the Presidential Medal of Freedom and named “Music Arranger Laureate of Indiana” in 1988.  His talents as a clinician, a guest conductor, and an adjudicator for music festivals were coveted by many institutions across the country.  Bill Moffit died in 2008.
The Chocolate Bayou Theater Company’s origins date back to 1973 when Leonard Wagner established a semi-professional community theater in conjunction with Alvin Community College. When the college suspended its theater program, Wagner decided to transform the group into a non-profit professional theater in collaboration with Pat Miller. Their mission was to produce high quality, intimate professional theater while developing playwrights and a company of actors. Together they moved the Chocolate Bayou Theater Company to a new location a few miles north to Houston.
Chocolate Bayou established a reputation mounting new plays and supporting new playwrights through their Preston Jones New Play Symposium. The symposium was named for the playwright Preston Jones who donated his new play to CBTC for their first production. Jones, a close friend of Miller and Wagner, died two weeks before the play was produced.
Financial difficulties forced the company to close in 1987. Chocolate Bayou was enjoying critical and popular success but faced outstanding debts and the economic downturn in Houston. In its final year CBTC produced seven premieres of new plays. Attempts were made to revive CBTC but were unsuccessful. The company mounted more than 100 productions and received two Rockefeller Foundation grants.
Sources:
Dauphin, Sue. Houston by Stages: A History of Theatre in Houston.
No biographical information is available on the author.
The Faculty Wives Club and the Woman's Club of the University of Houston combined in 1962 to form the University of Houston Women's Association (UHWA). The UHWA provided a social and service organization for the wives of faculty and staff, and an ever-increasing number of female university faculty. Throughout each academic year the UHWA arranged various large-scale activities such as swimming parties, dinner theaters, and dances for its members, of which numbers usually ranged from two to three hundred dues-paying members. Smaller interest-based group functions included bridge games, book clubs, sewing parties, and gourmet cooking lessons. The organization also supported the student population through service events. The most notable of these is the Mary Harding Hoffman scholarship established in 1978. The scholarship provided children of University of Houston faculty or staff with tuition for their freshman year at the University of Houston on a merit basis.
An annually-elected executive board of officers led the University of Houston Women’s Association. The primary officers, consisting of a President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer directed the affairs of the UHWA through smaller committees. The most consistently active committees during the organization's history included the newcomers, scholarship, and activities committees. The activities group also subdivided into smaller units gathering members with similar interests such as bridge, sewing, reading, and bowling.
In 1969, The University of Houston was one of four universities in the United States to utilize this new concept in education. The purpose of the “Open University” program was to provide better university education for large groups of students through successful self-study programs which covered the relationships between the sciences and society and the arts and society. Through the use of a wide range of multi-media material, including closed circuit television and radio programs and self-study texts, students were able to learn on their own without being required to spend numerous hours in the classroom.
Special Collections collects and preserves historically significant materials. Its holdings comprise a rare book collection and ten main archival collecting areas. In some instances, Special Collections gathers materials on a single topic to preserve them and make them available. In these cases, Special Collections is seen as the creator of the artificially constructed collection.
Special Collections collects and preserves historically significant materials. Its holdings comprise a rare book collection and ten main archival collecting areas. In some instances, Special Collections gathers materials on a single topic to preserve them and make them available. In these cases, Special Collections is seen as the creator of the artificially constructed collection.
The Houston National Bank was founded in 1876 as a private bank by Henry S. Fox, Sr., who served as the bank's president until his death in 1912. Cofounder Joseph F. Meyers, Sr. succeeded him as president until Henry S. Fox, Jr. assumed the bank's presidency from 1914 until 1925. In 1928, Houston National Bank moved its headquarters into a newly-constructed building on the southwest corner of Main and Franklin Streets in downtown Houston.
Beginning in 1931, Joseph F. Meyer, Jr. served as president until the bank sold a substantial portion of its stock in 1950 to a group of businessmen, including the President of the Gulftex Drug Company, Irvin M. Shlenker, and longtime Houston National Bank employee Melvin Rouff, who was subsequently made president. The Houston National Bank merged with the Tennessee Bank and Trust Company in 1964.
Larry McMurtry is probably the most well-known writer to have emerged from Texas in the twentieth century, appealing to both critics and readers with his novels of the contemporary and historic American West. His trail-drive saga Lonesome Dove earned McMurtry the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1986, and many of his books have become national bestsellers. Lonesome Dove was turned into a highly-acclaimed television mini-series, and several of his novels have been made into films, most notably The Last Picture Show, which garnered McMurtry an Academy Award nomination for the screenplay, and Terms of Endearment.
Larry McMurtry was born in 1936, and grew up in Archer City, Texas, the son and the grandson of cattle ranchers. He completed his undergraduate studies at the North Texas State University, and received his M.A. in English from Rice University in 1960.
In 1961 he released his first novel, Horseman, Pass By. That novel and the two which followed, Leaving Cheyenne (1963) and The Last Picture Show (1966), were set in the imaginary town of Thalia, and explored small town life and the changes taking place in the rural West. Between 1963 and 1969, McMurtry also taught creative writing at Rice University.
In 1969 McMurtry moved to Washington D.C., where he became co-owner and operator of a rare book store called Booked Up. While living in Washington, he wrote three novels about turbulent relationships that were primarily set in Houston – Moving On (1970), All My Friends Are Going to Be Strangers (1972), and Terms of Endearment (1975). His next three novels are generally considered less successful, transitional novels.
1986’s Lonesome Dove was a departure for McMurtry, a rambling story set in the West of the 1870s. Since writing Lonesome Dove, he has been equally prolific in two types of book – contemporary novels such as Texasville (1987) and Evening Star (1992) which revisit characters from earlier works, and historically based novels like Anything for Billy (1988) and Buffalo Girls (1990) which tell the stories of legendary figures such as Billy the Kid and Calamity Jane. McMurtry has also released three more novels featuring characters from Lonesome Dove, the 1993 sequel Streets of Laredo, the 1996 prequel Dead Man’s Walk, and the 1997 prequel Comanche Moon. Like Lonesome Dove, these novels were made into television mini-series.
McMurtry has continued to write novels, with the latest from the Last Picture Show series, Rhino Ranch, being released in 2009. In 2005, McMurtry won the Academy Award for his screenplay of the movie Brokeback Mountain, which he co-wrote with Diana Ossana.
In addition to novels, McMurtry has also published books of essays, film criticism, short stories, and several volumes of memoirs. He has one son, James Lawrence, and currently lives in Archer City, Texas, where he owns a rare book store.
Edward Gailon Holley was born in Pulaski, Tennessee on November 26, 1927. During his career Holley served as a library administrator (Director of Libraries, University of Houston, 1962-1971), a library educator (Dean and Professor, School of Library Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 1972-1985, and professor until his retirement in 1995), and a library historian. He has written over 100 books, articles, and essays on topics as diverse as library biography, the history of library education, copyright, library administration, and the place of personal morality in public life. While at the University of Houston he not only oversaw a major addition to the library, but was responsible for hiring Charles D. Churchwell as Assistant Director for Public Services, the first black professional on the campus (1967). As Dean of the School of Information and Library Sciences at Chapel Hill, Holley established a doctoral program, and expanded the Master's program to two years.
Holley has been the recipient of numerous awards including the ALA Scarecrow Press Award for his published dissertation, Charles Evans, American Biographer (1964); the ALA Melvil Dewey Award (1983); the ALA Joseph Lippincott Award (1987); and the Academic/Research Librarian of the Year Award (Association of College and Research Libraries, 1988). While at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Holley was named William Rand Kenan, Jr., Professor in 1989 and held that distinguished professorship until his retirement in 1995. In 1994 he was honored with a festschrift, For the Good of the Order: Essays in Honor of Edward G. Holley, the title bearing witness to his tireless professional devotion.
River Oaks Business Women’s Exchange Club or ROBWEC was formed on February 12, 1976 when fewer than ten business and professional women met for the first time in the Travel Lodge. It was the idea of Marilyn Elam, a recent law school graduate who had moved to Houston to take a federal district court law clerkship. The small group of women continued to meet informally until July 2, 1976, when Jeanne Atherton moved the meetings to the River Oaks Country Club and officially organized the River Oaks Business Women’s Exchange Club. The plan was quickly implemented to recruit women of professional strength and power, each a leader in her field in the greater Houston area.
The purpose of ROBWEC is to bring together businesswomen of the city of Houston. This business and professional women's organization meets monthly for networking opportunities and business support. ROBWEC provides its members with web access to the membership directory, a monthly newsletter, special interest groups, and socials. Members interact with other business and professional women and hear informative speakers who educate, inspire, and entertain. From its humble beginnings in 1976, ROBWEC now has nearly one hundred members representing dynamic and diverse backgrounds and occupations.
Founded in 1900, The Texas Optometric Association (TOA) represents more than 1200 doctors of optometry, optometry students, and optometric technicians across the State of Texas. Originally, the organization was named the Texas Optical Association, later named the Texas Optometric Association. The TOA began organizing local societies in 1943. In 1987, it had 972 members and 21 local societies. TOA offers a variety of services including job referral, continuing education courses, insurance, travel benefits, periodicals, and meeting and conference opportunities. The Texas Optometric Association has been an essential advocate for Texas optometrists and has maintained its headquarters in Austin since 1951.
With the promise of substantial financial assistance from TOA pledges, the University of Houston College of Optometry, became the tenth optometry school in the nation, in 1952. At that time, the university was a private school, but in 1963, it became a state-supported college. Today UHCO is one of only 17 optometry schools in the United States. The institution offers a four-year program of instruction and clinical experience for the Doctor of Optometry degree. It also offers M.S. and Ph.D. degree programs in physiological optics for those who plan careers in research or teaching. By 1987, it had awarded 23 Ph.D. degrees, 34 M.S. degrees, and more than 1,500 O.D. degrees.
The Houston Council of Texas Garden Clubs, Inc. was organized and federated April 22, 1943. A number of Houston garden clubs united to establish a Council with the responsibility of coordinating the activities of local clubs at the state and national levels. A Constitution and By-Laws were adopted at the second Council meeting, in May 1943. After sixty years, the Council dissolved in June 2003 due to decreasing attendance of member clubs.
The Houston Council of Texas Garden Clubs was very active in the community throughout its existence. The Council’s two major community service projects regarded the United States Veterans Administration Hospital and the Lighthouse for the Blind Garden Club. These were ongoing projects over many years. The Council was involved in several activities at the hospital. Beginning in 1951, the Council provided weekly flower arrangements at the hospital chapel, maintained planter boxes, and created several gardens for use as garden therapy for the patients. The Council sponsored the Lighthouse for the Blind Garden Club, founded in 1949. The club provided transportation and activities for its members and Braille transcriptions of club rosters. The Council was also involved in smaller community service projects over the years.
For much of its existence, the Council met once a month, September through May, at the Houston Garden Center in Hermann Park. Officers were elected for two year terms, with elections held in May. Activities included instructional programs and presentations at the meetings, and annual flower shows.
The city began on August 30, 1836, when Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen ran an advertisement in the Telegraph and Texas Register for the "Town of Houston." The town-site, which featured a mixture of timber and grassland, was on the level Coastal Plain in the middle of the future Harris County, at 95.4° west longitude and 30.3° north latitude. When first formed in 1949 the Houston Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area covered only Harris County and had a population of 806,701 people. The increasing use of automobiles also led to the building of expressways in the 1950s that extended over 200 miles by 1990. The prosperity after World War II brought the world famous Galleria shopping mall with its interior ice-skating rink in 1970. In the ordering of urban space Houston politicians and voters have continually rejected the use of zoning. The lack of zoning has not affected development to any great extent, however, since heavy industry concentrated in the area of the ship channel and subdivisions controlled construction through deed restrictions. This casual attitude toward land use encouraged business expansion.
Sources:
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. "Houston, Texas." http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/HH/hdh3.html Accessed March 5, 2009
Womynspace, Inc was a non-profit organization designed by and for women. Founded in 1985, it was directed by a collective of five women: Anita Davidson, Lynda Jones, Margo Shelton, Glena Stephenson and Rebecca Tallman. The organization operated under four basic tenets regarding the purpose of its existence. First and foremost, it sought to provide a gathering and healing place for women only. It provided space for artists and relief to women who were exploited as consumers. Lastly, it strived to add dimension to the “womyn’s” community. The organization also worked to establish an alternative living space in a communal setting; a coffeehouse that would provide artistic and gathering space; a shop and gallery space where “womyn” wares would be displayed and sold; a meeting and workshop space; and a forum for disseminating information throughout the womyn’s community.
Source Unknown
Born April 26, 1926 in Houston, Texas, Ruby Kless Sondock attended Cottey College in Nevada, Missouri for two years before marrying Lt. Melvin A. Sondock in Houston, Texas in 1944. Years after having a family, Sondock attended the University of Houston Law Center and graduated as valedictorian of the 1962 law class. She was admitted to the Texas State Bar the year before her graduation from law school. Following law school, Sondock practiced law for seven years. Gov. Preston Smith appointed her judge of Harris County Domestic Relations Court No. 5 in 1973, making her the first woman in Harris County to hold a district level judgeship. She held the position for four years until Gov. Dolph Briscoe appointed her in 1977 to the 234th District Court; she became the first woman to hold that distinction in Harris County.
Sondock was appointed to the Texas Supreme Court by Gov. William P. Clements following the death of associate justice James G. Denton, who died of a heart attack on June 10, 1982. When the fifty-six year old Sondock was sworn in on June 25, she became the first woman justice on the court since 1925, when a special all-woman court served briefly to hear a single case involving the Woodmen of the World. Sondock completed Denton’s term, which ended December 31, 1982, and did not seek election. Instead she returned to the 234th District Court, to which she won reelection without opposition the following November.
Following her judicial service, Sondock began working as a private mediator in Houston. Her alma mater, the University of Houston Law Center, hosts a biennial lecture series in her name, "The Ruby Kless Sondock Lecture in Legal Ethics."
Dr. Bette Ann Stead, known as the Architect for C.T. Bauer's $40 million endowment, is professor emerita of the C. T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston, where she taught for 34 years.  Dr. Stead's numerous articles have been published in the Academy of Management Journal, Business Horizons, Group and Organization Management, IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication, Journal of Business Ethics, Information and Optimization Sciences, Journal of Library Administration, Journal of Nonprofit and Public Sector Marketing, Library Quarterly, Vital Speeches of the Day, etc.   In 1978, she co-authored Business English and Communication (McGraw-Hill).   Also in 1978, Stead published the first edition of Women in Management (Prentice Hall), which she used in her "Women in Administration" course. In 1985, the second edition was published.
In 1975, when Dr. Stead began teaching her groundbreaking course, "Women in Administration," women were denied membership in business and service organizations. On March 31, 1981, Dr. Stead presented a suggested constitution and bylaws to representatives from 20 business and scientific women’s organizations, which was used to establish the Federation of Houston Professional Women (FHPW), in September of that year. FHPW now has some fifty member organizations.  http://www.fhpw.org/our_history.html
In 1989, while serving as the Director of the Institute for Business, Ethics, and Public Issues, Dr. Stead presented a concept statement suggesting that the business school could bring together company representatives to discuss ethical concerns.  There was very little interest in establishing such an organization. On October 26 1995, she again forwarded her concept statement regarding the establishment of the Greater Houston Business Ethics Roundtable (GHBER).  This time, Dr. Stead did receive a positive response from local businesses. Shortly thereafter, GHBER was established to highlight the pivotal role of ethics in the workplace and to share "best practices." On November 16, 1999, GHBER presented Dr. Stead with the "1999 Dedicated Service Award," due to her efforts in creating this organization. In 2006 on GHBER's Tenth Anniversary, five $1000 scholarships were named in her honor. "The GHBER Bette Stead Scholarships" recognize her tireless dedication to education as well as the decisive role she played in establishing this organization. These 5 scholarships are awarded to Houston-area MBA students, and numerous major corporations belong to GHBER today.  http://www.ghber.org.
In 1999, Dr. Stead became the architect of the capital campaign needs assessment that led to C.T. Bauer's $40 million endowment of the University of Houston's College of Business Administration.  She has endowed three memorial scholarships in the C. T. Bauer College of Business honoring her aunt, paternal grandparents, and parents.  These scholarships are managed by the Cougar Investment Fund, L.L.C., which allows graduate students to gain valuable experience in money-management.
Dr. Stead has received the Distinguished Faculty Member Award, C. T. Bauer College of Business Alumni Association; Melcher Faculty Service Fellow for outstanding service productivity and contributions to  field, 1992-1993, 1993-1994, 1996-1997, 1997-1998, 1999-2000; Melcher Award for Excellence in Service for accomplishments and contributions in all dimensions of professional service, 1995; Senior Service Award for outstanding service as mentor, scholar, and role model, Women in Management Division, Academy of Management, 1992; and was named Distinguished Alumna, Lamar University, 2004. She has endowed three memorial scholarships in the Lamar University College of Business honoring her aunt, paternal grandparents, and parents.  In 1970 she guided the work that won the MBA Magazine award, for best graduate research by a business student in the U. S. ($700 for student; $500 for UH Library).  She also was invited to the White House July 1, 1976, to attend the International Women's Year report ceremony presentation to President Gerald R. Ford.  In June 12-16, 1972, she was a participant in the "Global Strategy Discussions," Naval War College, Newport, Rhode Island.
She developed a course called "Marketing for Nonprofits."  Her students completed over 150 projects for Houston-area nonprofits.  Her community service also includes being president, River Oaks Business Women's Exchange Club, 1991; president, advisory board, The Women's Home (founded 1957), 501 (c)(3), only agency in Houston offering women long-term residential care, psychiatric and nurse practitioner services, psychotherapy, chemical dependency services and vocational and spiritual development programs, 2002-2004; president, board of directors, Houston Compass, Inc., (501 (c)(3) provides job leads, bus tokens, and legal aid for street people; president, board of directors, Christ Church Cathedral (Episcopal) Endowment, 2003.  She chaired the $2M renovation of Christ Church Cathedral, 1994.  She also chaired the $4M capital expansion (1999) as well as the $10M affordable housing project (2001-now) for The Women's Home. 
She has also published, The Adventures of December, The Women's Home Cat, about a real cat that has lived at The Women’s Home for some 20 years; and C. C. Billy Goat and the First Christ Church, based on an 1852 painting by Thomas Flintoff of the first Christ Church, which stands where Christ Church Cathedral stands today.  She has gifted the first printing and copyright for both stories to these organizations.
The Houston Comets was a Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) team based in Houston, Texas. They were formed in 1997, which was the inaugural season of the WNBA and were one of the original eight WNBA teams. The Comets were the first dynasty of the WNBA and they won more championships than any other team in the WNBA under the reigns of Head Coach Van Chancellor. They began as the sister team of the Houston Rockets under the ownership of Alexander Leslie from 1997 to 2006.
From 1997 to 2000, the Comets dominated the WNBA as they won all four championships in the first four years of the league's existence with the leadership of Cynthia Cooper, Sheryl Swoopes and Tina Thompson who were referred to as the “Big Three.” The Comets were known for courting great women's basketball stars in addition to the “Big Three” such as Kim Perrot, who succumbed to cancer in 1999 and college star Michelle Snow.
Unfortunately, the Comets failed to make another WNBA Finals appearance after their 2000 Championship season. Changes in the roster, coaching staff, ownership and playing arena prompted the demise of the Comet’s Franchise. In 2001, 2-time league MVP Cynthia Cooper retired, and in 2007, Chancellor resigned as Head Coach and Alexander sold the Franchise to Hilton Koch. Chancellor was replaced by Assistant Coach, Karleen Thompson; and shortly thereafter, the team moved from playing its home games at the Toyota Center to Reliant Arena. Given these changes over the span of seven years, the Comets struggled greatly as they only moved past the First Round of the playoffs once, which was in their 2005 season, and they failed to make the playoffs 3 out of their last eight seasons. Due to this hardship, Koch put the team up from sale in 2008, but didn’t receive any offers from investors. Consequently, the team fell under the management of the WNBA and was disbanded in the same year.
John H. Lienhard is the author and voice of the popular radio program, The Engines of Our Ingenuity. The show airs daily in the United States on Public Radio and internationally on Armed Forces Radio. For his work on Engines, he received the 1989 ASME Ralph Coates Medal for contributions to the public understanding of technology. He also received the 1991 Portrait Division Award from the American Women in Radio and Television, and the 1998 American Society of Mechanical Engineers Engineer-Historian Award. He was also named as one of the five finalists from among 1,300 entrants in the 1993 New York Festival International Radio Competition.
Lienhard is Professor Emeritus at the University of Houston. From 1989 to 2000, he served as M.D. Anderson Professor of Technology and Culture in the departments of Mechanical Engineering and History at the University of Houston, and from 1980 to 1989 he was Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the school. His research areas include heat transfer with phase change, hydrodynamic boiling theory, condensation, flashing, thermodynamics of phase change, dynamics of jets and sheets, and the history of technology. He is also an Honorary Member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) and a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
He was born in St. Paul Minnesota on August 17, 1930, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering in 1951 from Oregon State College, an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Washington in Seattle in 1953, and a PhD. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley in 1961.
Lienhard has written hundreds of professional journal articles, along with several technical books. He maintains full scripts of Engines programs on the web at http://www.uh.edu/engines. The site presently serves some 30,000 visitors each week. Each year KUHF also produces an hour-long Engines-related compact disk of twenty or so Engines programs. Professor Lienhard is also a prolific speaker and has given approximately 1100 major addresses.
All information from this biographical sketch was taken from the Engines of Our Ingenuity web site or from information provided by Professor Lienhard.
Edison Ellsworth Oberholtzer began his career as a school teacher in rural Indiana. He served as Superintendent of Tulsa public schools from 1913 to 1923 and Superintendent of the Houston Independent School District from 1924 to 1927. With the formation of the Houston Junior College in 1927, Oberholtzer was named president. Oberholtzer remained president through the change from a two-year to a four-year institution in 1934. In 1945 Senate Bill (SB) 207 passed and gave the authority to the Board of Education of HISD to divorce the management of the University of Houston from the public schools. E.E. Oberholtzer was named as president and continued in that capacity until his retirement in 1950.
Oberholtzer received his bachelor and master degrees from the University of Chicago and his doctorate from Columbia University in 1934.
Mr. H.E. Nelson attended the Naval Training Station at Norfolk, Virginia, passing through the camp in September of 1918, just two months before the Armistice which ended World War I. He also served on the battleship USS Wisconsin (BB-64), which was commissioned in 1944.
E. Virginia Barnett served as executive director of the University of Houston Foundation until 1987. The University of Houston Foundation raises funds for and promotes the university.  There is an UH undergraduate scholarship in her name.
During 1978 and 1979 Phi Kappa Phi undertook an oral history project to create a “Living History Library.” Manuscript librarian, David Robrock performed the interviews with former university administrators in an attempt to preserve a portion of the institution’s history. Robrock recorded conversations with Leta Hayden Gilbert (former administrative assistant to five UH Presidents), Charles F. Hiller, Walter W. Kemmerer (former President), C. F. McElhinney (former Business Manager and Vice-president), and Ruth S. Wikoff (UH’s first university librarian).
Helen Barthelme was born December 18, 1927. She graduated as an honors student from Corpus Christi High School at the age of 15. After her parents separated, she moved to Houston with her mother and two sisters. About a year later, around the age of 17, she enrolled at the University of Houston, where she would later meet Donald Barthelme Jr., who would later become a famous author. She became editor of the school newspaper 'The Cougar.' After graduating with her bachelor's degree, she continued to work in the university's public relations department. She briefly left the university to start a corporate career, but returned as director of the Information Office in 1951.
In 1951, she married her first husband Pete Gilpin. The marriage dissolved in 1956, and she married Donald Barthelme shortly thereafter. She left her professional endeavors for a short time in order to become a housewife, but she disliked the role. She soon re-enrolled in philosophy and art classes at the University of Houston. In 1957, she became an account executive for an ad agency, and was invited to teach classes in journalism and literature at a four-year woman's university in Houston called Dominican College.
In 1959, Helen Barthelme started her own ad agency, and continued to teach at Dominican College. She and Donald Barthelme were divorced in 1965. She continued her education, getting her doctorate from the University of Texas at Austin. In 1972, she accepted an appointment with the Department of English at the University of Houston. She went on to become a professor of English at Texas A&M university in College Station. Helen Barthelme had a long and distinguished career as an ad executive and professor. She died of cancer on Jun 28, 2002.
Sources:
Barthelme, H. M. (2001). Donald Barthelme: The Genesis of a Cool Sound (Tarleton State University Southwestern Studies in the Humanities, 13) (1st ed ed.). College Station: Texas A&M University Press.
Contemporary Authors Online, Gale, 2010. Reproduced in Biography Resource Center. Farmington Hills, Mich.: Gale, 2010. http://galenet.galegroup.com/servlet/BioRC
The Houston Alumni Organization (HAO) was founded in the 1940’s by a group of former students. However, the first alumni association housed on campus was the Alumni Federation, one of many vehicles initiated during the 1940’s and 1950’s to draw alumni back to the University. [1] HAO is governed by an alumni board of directors and is a non-profit organization which operates for the benefit of the University of Houston and its alumni. It is responsible for the overall alumni program and coordinates the constituent programs of the campus’ colleges and departments. Constituent associations are organized by college, school, department, or special interest affiliation. Clubs are organized by geographical area. Each association and club has its own board of directors. [2] (see UH alumni website for current listing).
Mission Statement: The Alumni Association is dedicated to supporting and serving the University of Houston and its worldwide community of alumni and friends.
Vision Statement: UHAA activities reflect priorities of our alumni and complement aspirations of the university, the colleges, schools, and various institutional components such as admissions, advancement, athletics, community and government relations, the faculty, student life, and university events. Through area clubs and constituent and special interest groups, UHAA adds dimension to the outreach capabilities of the institution and provides avenues for active engagement and support.
By administering fiduciary oversight for alumni groups, managing scholarship programs, communicating broadly and effectively, sponsoring leadership recognition and awards ceremonies, and developing and sustaining lifelong relationships, UHAA expands the capacity for the university to prosper. It is a requisite link between the university and its alumni and friends.[3]
Today the HAO is also known as the University of Houston Alumni Association.
Sources:
[1] Pamphlet - “Alumni Federation” (box 1, folder 1)
[2] Pamphlets – “UHAO Alumni Membership Facts”, “Alumni Organization Membership” (box 1, folder 1)
[3] About UHAA, available from http://www.alumniconnections.com/olc/pub/UHU/homepage.cgi. 12 August 2009.
The University of Houston’s first athletic teams existed merely as student extracurricular activities during its years as the Houston Junior College (1927 -1934), and consisted of a girl’s basketball team, an ice hockey team, and a football team.
Over the years, as enrollment and construction increased at the university, so did the desire for a great athletics program. The first year of intercollegiate sports was 1946.
Since that time the University of Houston Department of Athletics has grown tremendously, and has seen the construction of eight on-campus facilities for the purpose of supporting its student athletes.
The College of Business was established in 1942. [1] Originally called the College of Business Administration, classes were held at the Downtown School and later at the University’s main campus. During WWII the College of Business Administration and Arts and Sciences collaborated in one of the institutions first interdisciplinary programs, Emergency Science-Management War Training, or ESMWT. Hundreds of civilian trainees were taught on campus and at the Downtown School in this program, which combined instruction in chemistry and business management. [2]
Upon seeing the necessity of a business school in Houston, many have given their time and money to seeing that the College of Business continues to be a valuable part of the University. On September 28, 1958 Jesse H. Jones gave a large sum of money for the construction of the Heyne Building, a much needed facility for the then rapidly expanding college. [3] On September 15, 1986, LeRoy and Lucile Melcher donated $3 million to the College of Business Administration. Melcher Hall, named in their honor, is home to the Dean and all programs and institutes of the College of Business. [4]
In 2000 the college was re-named after C.T. Bauer who made a $40 million gift to the school. Today, the Bauer College has 63 full-time faculty with diverse backgrounds and major publications, and over 60 teaching assistants and adjunct faculty from the corporate community who teach and conduct research. The college offers degrees in Accounting, Management Information Systems, Supply Chain Management, Finance, Management, Marketing, Entrepreneurship, and MBA, and several certification programs. Bauer’s home at the UH in one of the world’s most global cities attracts students from 139 countries – making it the single most diverse business school in the United States. [5]
Sources:
[1] UH Through Time: Colleges, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
[2] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 220.
[3] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 404.
[4] UH Through Time: People, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
[5] Our School, available from http://www.bauer.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
Architecture first appeared at the university in the 1945-1946 school year. Then it was a two-year program offered through the College of Technology. In 1946, both architecture and architectural engineering were being offered within the College of Engineering. While the study of architecture remained within the College of Engineering through the 1955-1956 school year, a "new plan" for architectural training was initiated in the fall of 1950. This plan integrated all phases of architectural instruction in four channels: design, construction, aesthetics, and graphics. The School of Architecture began in the fall of 1956 and in the fall of 1961 it became the College of Architecture. [1]
In March of 1997 Gerald D. Hines donated $7 million to the College of Architecture at the University of Houston. In honor of the gift, the school was renamed the Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture. The gift was by far the largest ever received by the architecture school and among the 10 largest gifts received by UH. [2]
Today, the study of architecture at the University of Houston is focused on design as the fundamental, essential activity of the discipline. As a public college of architecture located in a major urban setting, the college is able to take advantage of the numerous cultural, professional and industrial resources of the fourth largest city in America. With its unique form and vitality, Houston provides an exceptional laboratory for exploring problems and potentials of contemporary society. [3]
References:
[1] UH Through Time: Colleges, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
[2] UH Through Time: People, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
[3] UH Through Time: Colleges, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
The College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences is a fairly new college in its current state, but it has a long tradition at the university. In the early days of the university, the components of CLASS were part of the College of Arts and Sciences. In the early 1970s, this college was divided into the College of Humanities, Fine Arts, and Communication (HFAC), the College of Social Sciences (SOS), and the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM). In 2000, SOS and HFAC were brought together to form CLASS. Its departments and schools occupy buildings ranging from the oldest building on campus, Roy G. Cullen Hall, to among the newest, like the Moores School of Music building. CLASS faculty teach nearly 10,000 students every semester, at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Some current CLASS departments have been offering baccalaureate degrees since UH became a four-year institution in the 1930s. The first doctoral degrees were conferred in departments like History and Political Science in the mid 1970s. The Sarah Campbell Blaffer Gallery, the university’s art museum that is housed in CLASS, was dedicated in 1973 and the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts, was completed in late 2005.
CLASS’s 15 departments and schools all offer undergraduate and master’s degrees, and seven offer doctoral degrees. The College also has seven programs offering undergraduate minors. Cultural centers, like the Sarah Campbell Blaffer Gallery and the Cynthia Woods Mitchell Center for the Arts also make their home in CLASS.
With disciplines ranging from Art to Theatre, Anthropology to Sociology, and African American Studies to Women’s Studies, the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences is the largest and most diverse of the twelve colleges at the University of Houston.
Source:
About the college; A Brief History of CLASS, available from www.class.uh.edu. 12 August 2009
The College of Education was established in 1942. During WWII, the college had a vital wartime assignment recruiting and retraining teachers to take the places of the hundreds who left the profession for high-paying jobs in the war industry or for the armed services. Former teachers, particularly women, were urged to seek recertification, primarily through a unique Education Workshop. [1] In 1945, the School of Education was expanded to offer the degree of Doctor in Education. [2]
Farish Hall, dedicated in 1975, is the current location of the College of Education. A large endowment from Mrs. Stephen Power Farish was given to name the College of Education Building for her husband, a former UH regent. [3]
he College of Education works to shape and staff educational systems that are responsive to our rapidly changing society. The college prepares teachers, counselors, psychologists, school and higher education administrators and professionals for a variety of educational settings, including work in social agencies, medical facilities, businesses, and government posts. The college offers students both a broad range of innovative programs and the opportunity to learn about recent developments in educational practice and thought. The university's urban setting also offers students the opportunity to work with learners in a variety of settings.
The College of Education is home to four academic departments - Curriculum and Instruction, Educational Leadership and Cultural Studies, Educational Psychology, and Health and Human Performance - and several centers and institutes.
Refernces:
[1] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 219-220.
[2] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 267.
[3] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 458.
[4] About, available from www.coe.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
Officially opened in 1947 with 28 students and one professor, the Law Center has seen many changes. In 1950 the Bates College of Law moved from temporary classrooms to the basement of the M.D. Anderson Library. Full accreditation from the American Bar Association came on February 24, 1953. [1] Ground was broken for the current facility, consisting of three buildings, in 1969. When it became obvious that additional funds were needed to complete the Bates College of Law a grant of $400,000 was made available. Krost Hall, part of the UH Law Center, was named in honor of this grant.
Today, the primary objective of the Law Center is to provide a context for excellence in legal education and research. It seeks to provide broad, but intensive, training in the legal profession with students exposed to a variety of perspectives on law and legal systems. Students are expected to develop familiarity with contemporary law and the legal skills necessary to function as competent, ethical professionals. The Law Center emphasizes neither a theoretical nor a practical view of law, but believes that both are integral to legal education.
During the 1990s, the Law Center experienced dramatic qualitative and quantitative growth. The student body consists of more than 1,000 individuals drawn from all parts of the country in a highly competitive admissions program. Many law students have graduate degrees or professional recognition in other disciplines. The student body's quality, professional achievement, geographic origin, and ethnic diversity represent strengths of the Law Center. These strengths result in placement of graduates in major law firms in Houston and throughout the country.
Instruction is conducted primarily by full-time law faculty. Many are nationally recognized experts in fields such as health law, intellectual property law, international law, energy law, environmental law, commercial law, family law, Constitutional law and tax law. The faculty is supported by a select group of adjunct professors from the Houston bar, one of the major legal communities in the country. This combined faculty offers a broad range of professional experience and expertise.
[1] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 277.
[2] UH Through Time: Colleges, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
The College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM) is a fairly new college in its current state, but it has a long tradition at the university. In the early days of the university, the components of NSM were part of the College of Arts and Sciences. In the 1970s, this college was divided into the College of Humanities, Fine Arts, and Communication (HFAC), the College of Social Sciences (SOS), and the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics (NSM).
More recently, the College has built a strong reputation in health care and energy research. [1]
References:
[1] Dean's Message. http://nsm.uh.edu/about/msg-dean/ accessed December 5, 2016
The College of Optometry was established in 1952 by the Board of Regents as the result of a request from the Texas Optometric Association, which pledged to contribute $20,000 annually for operations. At the time of its establishment, the school was the only one in the South and the fifth in the nation to be established in connection with a university and with college entrance requirements. [1] Today, the school is one of only 17 optometry schools in the United States, and currently the only one in Texas. [2]
The College of Optometry, the University Eye Institute, and the Weston A. Petty Optometry Library are located in the J. Davis Armistead Building. Originally called the UH College of Optometry Building, constructed in 1976, the building changed names in 1993 to become the J. Davis Armistead Building in honor of Dr. Armistead’s dedication to the university and the profession. [3]
The teaching and research activities of the college are facilitated by the year-round operation of an outpatient clinic, the University Eye Institute, up-to-date research laboratories, an extensive library collection, a computer center, and instructional services. The College of Optometry offers the Doctor of Optometry (O.D.) degree and the Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in physiological optics. [4]
References:
[1] Houston Post Article – “UH Optometry School Set Up; Professor Hired, February 20, 1952” (Box 1, folder 3)
[2] About UHCO, available from www.opt.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
[3] About UHCO, available from www.opt.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
[4] UH Through Time: Colleges, available from http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/time/index.html. 12 August 2009.
Founded in 1946, the School of Pharmacy had a first year enrollment of 144 students, attesting to the need for a school of pharmacy in the area. [1] The University of Houston College of Pharmacy combines the opportunities and experiences of the Texas Medical Center’s world-class healthcare community with resources of the University of Houston, Texas’ premier urban teaching and research university, to offer its students the best possible education. The College is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education and holds membership in the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy.
The College of Pharmacy has two campuses: the main University of Houston campus; and the Texas Medical Center campus, where students have access to the Texas Medical Center Library and collaborations with TMC institutions.
The College offers a Bachelor of Science (B.S.) in Pharmaceutical Sciences, a Master of Science (M.S.) and a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Pharmacy Administration, a Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) professional degree, a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Pharmacology or Pharmaceutics, a combined Pharm.D./Ph.D. in Pharmacology or Pharmaceutics, and a combined Pharm.D./M.S. The college also offers post-doctoral research fellowships, post-graduate clinical fellowships, and post-graduate residency affiliations in cooperation with institutions in the TMC and Greater Houston area.
The faculty, many of whom are recipients of patents and prestigious National Institutes of Health grants, is one of the most diverse in the nation. The College includes more than 50 full-time faculty members, 700-plus preceptors who provide training for students on pharmacy practice experiences, and many healthcare providers from the community who serve as volunteer faculty.
The College aspires to foster a commitment to lifelong learning and an environment where students develop the knowledge, attitudes and skills consistent with the high standards of their profession and/or scientific field. [2]
[1] Brochure – “The School of Pharmacy”(box 1, folder 3)
[2] About Us, available from www.pharmacy.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
The College of Technology had its beginnings in 1941 when local firms contributed funds for the third permanent building on campus for the new School of Technology. The first technical institute programs to be initiated by the new college in 1945 were also the first engineering technology programs in the state of Texas, accredited by the Engineers Council for Professional Development. By 1962 the College of Technology offered 16 programs - 9 vocational and 7 engineering technology programs. By 1968 the college was granting a Bachelor of Science in Technology degree.
Throughout the decades since the 1940s, the School of Technology has grown to meet the ever-changing disciplines associated with technology and the growing diversity of the student body. Today the college is comprised of three different departments and a wide range of disciplines. The Engineering Technology department has carried forth the engineering technology programs that were the hallmark of the college's early years, and now cover the areas of computer engineering, networks, construction management, electrical power and mechanical technology. The Human Development and Consumer Sciences department covers the areas of Consumer Merchandising and Human Resources Development and the Information and Logistics Technology department covers the areas of information technology, printing and computer graphics, logistics and technical leadership.
The College of Technology continues to revise and update its programs as technology changes and as the marketplace grows in its needs for competent, well-trained technologists. We are currently in the process of developing a new department in Life Sciences Technology based upon the expanding fields of biomedical engineering, bioinformatics and the expanding medical marketplace within the Houston area and around the world.
Source:
College of Technology website
Establishing the Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management
When Conrad N. Hilton traveled through Cisco, Texas, in 1919, the only bed available to him was a couch in the lobby of the Mobley Hotel. Conrad Hilton slept on that couch, and then, on the spot, he bought the hotel. Hilton built his empire by decisively seizing opportunity, and in August 1969, he saw his biggest single opportunity yet.
Building a Hospitality College — From the Ground Up
In August 1969, James Taylor, the College's first dean, presented Eric Hilton, Conrad N. Hilton's son, with blueprints, plans and specifications for a hospitality college to be located at the University of Houston. Eric Hilton shared the plans with his brother Barron. "We both thought what an honor it would be to have a school like this in Texas where our father really got his start," explained Eric.
The brothers presented the plans to Conrad Hilton, who immediately pledged $1.5 million to the project. Classes began on September 16, 1969, and in October, the president of the University of Houston, Phillip Hoffman, hosted a black tie dinner in Conrad Hilton's honor.
"We are honored to be associated with one of the world's most outstanding and successful men in the hotel industry. His name, his gift and his interest in our program will contribute greatly to the development of one of the finest schools of this type anywhere," said President Hoffman.
Providing Opportunities
Today, students work and learn in a $28.8 million complex that includes the 86-room Hilton University of Houston Hotel, a 40,000 square-foot conference center, two full-service restaurants, three ballrooms, banquet facilities, a wine cellar and numerous labs and test kitchens. In the nearly 40 years since the college's founding, the Conrad N. Hilton Foundation has contributed more than $45 million in scholarships, endowed faculty chairs, building expansions and updates.
Conrad N. Hilton hoped to provide a hospitality college in which men and women could learn from those who came before them and appreciate the cross-section of contemporary life represented within our industry. He wanted "to give students...the opportunity that I did not have."
Conrad N. Hilton's vision is our reality, and our students continue to make the Hilton family proud.
The Department of Engineering was formed in 1934 with the chartering of the University, and in the school year 1939-1940 it became one of the most popular departments in the University. During the first long-term on their new campus, 397 students took engineering courses in the new air-cooled Roy Gustav Cullen Memorial Building. This was approximately one-seventh of the enrollment of the University at the time. [1]
In the fall of 1947, the University of Houston established the Co-op Program. The primary purpose of the Co-operative Program was to help students gain practical experience and to supplement their studies in either the Engineering or Business schools. This program still exists today under the name Co-operative Education. [2]
Mr. and Mrs. H.R. Cullen had been the principal benefactors of the University and, in particular, the College of Engineering for many years. In 1958 there was a great deal of sentiment expressed to change the name of the University to Cullen University. The Cullens refused the honor since they felt that its identity and its role with respect to the community would be affected. Their name was therefore given to the College of Engineering. [3]
One year after the official name change, a Building Dedication Ceremony was held for the brand new Cullen College of Engineering Building on May 3, 1968. This ceremony included the unveiling of a framed portrait of H. R. Cullen which still hangs today. [4]
The University of Houston Cullen College of Engineering is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. Today, more than 2,600 students are enrolled in engineering courses—1,840 undergraduates, 78 post-baccalaureates, 725 masters and doctoral students in biomedical, chemical, civil, computer, electrical, environmental, industrial, and mechanical engineering. The college also offers graduate programs in aerospace, environmental, industrial power systems, materials, and petroleum engineering. Chemical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering have ranked among the top programs nationally. [5]
Sources:
[1] “University of Houston Department of Engineering 1940-1941” pamphlet (box 1, folder 1)
[2] “The Co-Operative Division April 14, 1948” (box 1, folder 2)
[3] “A History of Engineering” by William J. Leach (box 1, folder 5)
[4] “Cullen College of Engineering Building Dedication” program (box 1, folder 5)
[5] College Facts, available from www.egr.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
The University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW) was established by the Texas State Legislature in 1967 with initial funding of $150,000. The “founding” faculty totaled seven individuals and twenty-six enrolled in the first class. The program was initially housed in a World War II Quonset Hut.
From these modest beginnings, the graduate program evolved over time to its current standing as a nationally recognized graduate social work program. The MSW (Master of Social Work) program has continually maintained its Council on Social Work Education professional accreditation since 1970 and in 1992 the PhD program was approved by the Texas State Coordinating Board.
Today, the College is housed in its own four-story building on campus and includes twenty-four fulltime faculty and approximately fifteen adjunct faculty. The faculty includes individuals whose writings have been considered for the Pulitzer prize as well as the 1997 Nobel Peace prize recipient – the GCSW is the only social work program in the world to have a Nobel laureate on faculty.
Today there are approximately 350 students enrolled in the MSW program with an additional 40 students in the PhD program. Students come from all walks of life, numerous states, and a number of international countries and they reflect the broad racial and ethnic diversity of our greater community.
The College’s academic offerings include the MSW and PhD with dual degree opportunities in business (Masters of Business Administration), law (Juris Doctorate), and Public Health (Masters in Public Health). Additionally the College offers certificates in gerontology, political social work, and trabajo social.
The College of Social Work offers wonderful international experiences including field placement opportunities and travel courses. Recently, students have traveled to England, Scotland, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, and mainland China for course work. To support the many international initiatives, the College has formal exchange agreements in place with City University of Hong Kong and the University of Wales.
More then 3,000 individuals have received their MSW degree from the University of Houston. The GCSW alumni continue to make significant differences in their clients’ lives, help formulate just social policies, while advocating and promoting justice for all people, no matter their stage in life.
Sources:
About Us, available from www.sw.uh.edu. 12 August 2009.
The Honors Program was established in the late 1940s along with a governing committee and council. In an October 25, 1947 meeting of the Committee on Honors Courses and Graduation with Honors, the committee recommended “ a) That honors courses be defined as courses set up for superior students and the content be more extensive, more intensive and more profound than that of the regular courses. The requirements in honors courses will be on a higher academic level, b) That the purpose of the honors course be to make available to the superior students work of the highest caliber …e) That honors courses shall be limited to the freshman year at this time.” [1]
Since its start the Honors College has grown to become an important part of the University of Houston student experience. The Honors College invokes a sense of community amongst its students and faculty through exclusive amenities, a dynamic learning and mentoring environment, and special privileges.
Through a challenging curriculum taught by world-renowned faculty, Honors students receive a well-balanced education as well as one-on-one mentoring and personalized academic advising — all leading to success.
The Honors College Mission & Vision website identifies its Vision: "The Honors College at the University of Houston is a nationally recognized, intellectually stimulating learning community. As a vibrant, leading presence within the University, the Honors College attracts highly talented and motivated students and educators to a collegial environment where tradition is honored and possibilities are both created and realized." [3]
References:
[1] Meeting notes - “Committee on Honors Courses and Graduation with Honors, October 25, 1947” (box 1, folder 2)
[2] The Honors Community, available from www. uh.edu/honors. accessed August 12
[3] Mission & Vision. http://www.uh.edu/honors/about/mission-vision/ accessed December 6, 2016
In 2014, violent protests and civil unrest in Ukraine’s capital city of Kiev erupted into a revolution that sought to remove President Viktor Yanukovych. The standing government was ousted and plans were put in place to elect an interim government and restore the previous constitution. Russia refused to recognize the revolution and began an invasion of the Crimea, which Ukraine considered sovereign territory. The European Union backed the formation of a stable governing body in Ukraine, but pro-Russian factions within the country led to continued unrest and a standoff with Russian forces occupying Crimea and Sevastopol.
Vishnu Divecha is a graduate of the University of Houston, where he earned his Master of Science in Industrial Engineering (MSIE). He also earned his Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MSCE) degree from Kansas State University, and his undergraduate degree in Engineering from Sardar Patel University. Divecha studied Sanskrit and Gita in high school under the guidance of Vedantic teacher shri Manishanker Joshi of Una, Gujarat, India. He was awarded title of Acharya in 2003 for his outstanding service promoting Sanskrit and Gita knowledge.
Voices Breaking Boundaries is a grassroots non-profit arts organization founded in 2000 by writer and artist Sehba Sarwar along with four other women – Marcela Descalzi, Jacsun Shah, Donna Perkins and Christine Choi. Initially the collective hosted readings at a Houston bookstore, but evolved into a dynamic, multi-disciplinary organization. Voices Breaking Boundaries art productions aim to examine issues connected to education, race, women’s right, demography and more from a global perspective.
Major productions include; La Voz Feminina, held each International Women’s Day, the Living Room art series, Words for Peace, East End Live Art and more. Voices Breaking Boundaries participated in the Houston Art Car Parade in 2010, and since 2013 have been producing publications of VBB artists and writers work.
http://www.vbbarts.org/
The Houston Area Fiber Artists (HAFA) was federated in 1969 as an organization involved in the creation of original design in fiber media with the purpose of maintaining and advancing fiber as an art form. Mediums included knitting, sewing, embroidery, and more. Profits from fundraising activities were used for scholarships and support of educational programs. In December of 2014, the organization disbanded and is now a focus group of the Contemporary Handweavers of Houston.
Kay B. Crooker was a professional and volunteer advocate for Houston’s quality of life for more than thirty years.  Appointed to the City of Houston Planning and Zoning Commission in 1984 and reappointed by five different Mayors, Crooker retired in 2008.  As a former president of Scenic Houston (a collection in the Houston History Archives) and board member with The Park People (Houston History Archives), Katy Prairie Conservancy, Buffalo Bayou Partnership, Quality of Life Coalition, and Trees for Houston, Crooker was key in the development of Houston’s Tree and Shrub ordinance .  Crooker was a strong advocate for zoning and was active in the most recent, unsuccessful campaign to enact zoning in Houston in 1993. 
As a neighborhood activist, Crooker became the first woman to join the Tanglewood Homeowners Association’s board of directors.  Then the board elected her president of the board.  Subsequently, Crooker founded the Houston Homeowners Association and served for three years as its president.
Crooker expressed her philosophy of activism when she signed on with “1000 Friends of Houston – Houston deserves to be a better place to live.”  As a dedicated activist, Crooker worked devotedly to fulfill this claim for Houston’s future. Mrs. Crooker died on August 20, 2012. Her endless contributions and hard work for the city of Houston left a trail of great outcomes and her personal imprint on civic duty.
World Affairs Council (Gulf Coast/Houston) Records collection consists of documents relating to the Gulf Coast Council on Foreign Affairs, Gulf Coast World Affairs Council, and Houston World Affairs Council. In 1976, fourteen individuals founded Gulf Coast Council on Foreign Affairs as a result of their participation in College of the Mainland’s annual, eight-week Great Decisions foreign policy study-discussion program. Organization by-laws designed an organization that was self-sustaining through membership dues and fundraising.
Programs developed by the evolving organization encouraged public awareness of global conditions involving international political, economic, and military issues and introduced participants to the diversity of cultures around the world. It was the Council’s policy to provide information without assuming particular positions, operating from the premise that every citizen in a democratic society has the right and perhaps an obligation to be informed. Robert Handy served as the first Board Chairman, then functioned as the Council’s Executive Director. In 1984, when Handy resigned his administrative role with the Council to assume the position of Executive Director of the Houston World Trade Association, the Council had hundreds of members with chapters in Houston, Clear Lake, Lake Jackson and Galveston.
In 1984, the organization’s name changed to Gulf Coast World Affairs Council, and leadership moved to the Center for International Studies at the University of St. Thomas in Houston. The Center’s Director William J. Cunningham, assumed the role of Executive Director of the Council.
During 1987-1988, the organization’s name changed again to Houston World Affairs Council. Later, these steps led to formation of the World Affairs Council of Houston, an organization still active and working to promote effective communication in a global community.
Records in this collection reflect the formative years of an organization devoted to promoting global understanding among local citizens, designing educational experiences locally as well as abroad, and creating opportunities for exchange of information in an international contexts.
Starting in 1970, Hana Ginzbarg spearheaded the campaign to rename and preserve Middle Bayou. Renamed became Armand Bayou to memorialize Armand Yramategui, a conservationist beloved by Houston’s environmental community. Ginzbarg devoted herself to the campaign to preserve Armand Bayou as “a small urban wilderness reserve” and protect it from impending residential development. Ginzbarg sent letters, made phone calls, photographed the bayou, attended political meetings, wrote press releases and newsletter columns, and generally performed like a whirling dervish for whom no task was too insignificant to merit her careful attention. It should be noted that Ginzbarg became acquainted with the bayou systems in Houston through her participation in the “Save Buffalo Bayou” campaign mounted by the Bayou Preservation Association in whose records also are preserved in the Houston History Archives.
As preserved by the campaign, Armand Bayou Nature Center includes 500 acres of the natural wetlands forest, prairie, and marsh habitats once abundant in the Houston/Galveston area. It offers habitat for 370 species of birds, mammals, reptiles and amphibians, and offers hiking trails, exhibits, field trips, Scout programs, birding, and a farm, and it an effective natural flood management system. Money, land, and development were the triggers in the Armand Bayou preservation campaign, rather than local government action.
Sources:
Tomkins-Walsh, T. L., “’To Combine Many and Varied Forces:’ The Hope of Houston’s Environmental Activism, 1923-1999.” In Martin V. Melosi and Joseph A. Pratt, Energy Metropolis: An Environmental History of Houston and the Gulf Coast. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2007, 241-259
The Stephen F. Austin High School Scottish Brigade drill team was founded by Beatrice Lytle in September of 1937. The Scottish Brigade’s mission was defined as service to school and community, as well as embracing the ideals of honor, spirit and loyalty. Drill teams played an important social role in the years that the Scottish Brigade was active. Girls’ sports teams were rare or nonexistent in many American high schools and colleges until the enforcement of Title IX in 1972, and drill teams like the Scottish Brigade offered a place to promote scholarship, discipline, respect, leadership skills, social skills and fitness to high school girls.
For the next forty years the Scottish Brigade performed at Austin High School football games, as well as drill team contests and city and state parades and festivals. The brigade disbanded on May 25, 1978. On the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Scottish Brigade, the alumnae decided to form an association to keep the memory and spirit of the Scottish Brigade alive. In 1987 the Scottish Brigade Alumnae Association formed and is still active providing scholarships to Austin High School students and planning yearly meetings of Brigade alumnae.
References:
Harwood, Nancy. “Scottish Brigade Alumnae members keep the spirit alive” The Leader. Houston, Texas [March 16, 2006].
“Scottish Brigade highlights” <<www.austin55.org/brigadehighlights.html>>. Accessed 5/12/2009 (created 12/5/00)
Bell, Richard C. “A history of women in sport prior to Title IX” The Sport Journal, Vol 10, No. 2 (2007). Accessed on May 19, 2011
Student organizations have been an important part of the University of Houston since before it was a four-year institution. Student organizations played a considerable role in the overall educational process at what was then called the Houston Junior College (established in 1927), in spite of difficulties of finding time for meetings and activities, of having facilities available, and of stretching already-taut student budgets for even the most modest dues and fees. [1]
The Cougar was actually the first extracurricular activity at HJC, pre-dating the original classes in journalism (which began in 1928-1929 under Fred R. Birney) by a full year. It was both a laboratory for journalism students and a student actiivty. [2]
Other “original” student organizations include a girl’s basketball team, an ice hockey team, the Student Council, The John R. Bender Dramatic Club, the HJC Oratorical Association, the Cougar Collegians, the Girl’s Outdoor Club, the Guild Savant, the Student Association, the Speakers’ Club, the Cougar, and the Houstonian. [3]
Today, the University of Houston is the second most ethnically diverse major research university in the United States. Students come to UH from more than 137 nations and from across the U.S. The student body comprises more than 40,000 undergraduate and graduate students. The diversity of the campus can be seen by the broad range of student organizations that exist. There are approximately 500 student organizations and 16 intercollegiate sports teams. These organizations vary in focus, from political or social, to religious. [4]
The Council of Ethnic Organizations (CEO) is a student-fee funded organization founded in 1972. It works with member organizations to promote cultural awareness, diversity, and inclusion. [6]
The Center for Student Involvement (CSI) helps students develop student organizations, coordinate events, and gain valuable skills in the process. [5]
References:
[1] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 56.
[2] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 59.
[3] Patrick J. Nicholson, In Time: An Anecdotal History of the First Fifty Years of the University of Houston (Houston, TX: Pacesetter Press, 1977), 56.
[4] UH at a Glance, available from http://www.uh.edu/about/uh-glance/, accessed January 6, 2017
[5] Center for Student Involvement http://www.uh.edu/csi/, accessed January 6, 2017
[6] Council of Ethnic Organizations http://www.uh.edu/csiceo/, accessed January 6, 2017
Willis Knapp Jones was born on November 26, 1895 in Beacon, New York, the son of Plato Tydvil and Louise (Knapp) Jones. He received his AB from Hamilton College in 1917. He received his MA from Pennsylvania State University in 1922. In 1927 he received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. He taught at Penn State, instructor in Spanish (1920-23), University of Miami, Oxford, Ohio, associate professor (1923-28), professor of Romance languages (1928-63). During his school year and life span he travelled and taught in Santiago, Chile (1917-1919), in Montevideo, Uruguay (1919-1920), American University of Shrivenham, England (1945) and at the University of Guayaquil, Ecuador, a Lecturer on Latin American drama and culture (1946-1947). Upon his retirement in 1963 he sold his library of Latin American theatrical works to the University of Houston. He died in March 1982, in Oxford, Ohio.
Dr. Jones was a true pioneer in the study of Latin American literature bringing Spanish texts and translation to American readers by the way of his research and publications of books, journals and newspapers.
Brigadier General Kenneth W. Kennedy was born on September 3, 1918 in Nacogdoches, Texas.  He attended Stephen F. Austin University prior to his acceptance to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, where he earned a Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, Military Engineering, and Military History in 1941.  In addition he attended the Army Command and General Staff College in 1944, graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a Masters in Civil Engineering in 1947, later attending the Armed Forces Staff College in 1957 and the Army War College in 1962, where he would eventually serve on the faculty as Director of the International Relations Course.  General Kennedy’s legacy includes military service in World War II, the Greek Civil War, the Korean War, the Vietnam War and peacetime engineering projects in the United States as well as Japan and Greece.  His brother, Joseph W. Kennedy, Ph.D., was instrumental in the discovery of plutonium and noted for his work on the atomic bomb at the Los Alamos laboratory.
During World War II Kennedy served as a shore party commander in the invasion of Northern Africa, receiving a promotion to major for his efforts.  Following World War II he served as an engineering advisor to the Greek government during the Greek Civil War, earning commendations from King Paul of Greece.  He served as a Base Section Engineer during the Korean War and Senior Engineer Advisor (later named Theater Engineer) during the Vietnam War.  In the United States, Kennedy was instrumental in the maintenance of Mississippi River navigation channels, the pioneering construction for early space launch facilities at Cape Canaveral, Florida, and, later, various public works projects and civic service.
During his 30 years of service in the Army Corps of Engineers, Kennedy received a number of accolades and commendations including the Distinguished Service Medal and the Legion of Merit with Cluster.  He died at the age of 90 on June 25, 2009 in Lakeway, Texas.
H. David Kaplan was born in Brooklyn, New York on November 13, 1934.   In 1956, he received a B.A. in journalism from The University of Michigan. Kaplan has worked for newspapers, magazines, and corporate communications while also functioning as a patron of and volunteer to the arts throughout the United States.
Kaplan's longstanding interest in the performing/fine arts was established by his parents, and was further entrenched when he lived in New York City.  Another influence on his interest in the arts was his uncle, Al Kaplan, who performed in vaudeville throughout the world from 1920-1947.
Kaplan has provided many years of service to the arts through his involvement with the Houston Grand Opera, in his former role as Associate Publisher for Houston’s Performing Arts Magazine, and in his ongoing role as an instructor in Enjoying Opera and American Opera courses for continuing education classes in Federal Way, Washington. He has also enhanced the arts collections of several libraries, donating this collection as well as portions of the Hoblitzelle Theatre Collection to the University of Texas, Austin, and a 48-volume collection of New York City theatre playbills and programs to the University of Washington Libraries’ Special Collections. He continues his enthusiastic patronage of the arts, and routinely donates New York theater programs to the University of Washington Libraries Special Collections.
James & Associates was a surveying and civil engineering firm that did business in Houston from approximately 1960 to 1985. The firm owned six bound volumes of subdivision plat maps, which documented many neighborhoods of the city, from the oldest downtown to the newer suburbs of the 1950s and 60s. The firm also did the civil engineering work for a residential subdivision in north Harris County known originally as “Thameswood, Section 1” and later as “Memorial Chase, Section 3.”  Their work product included maps and engineering drawings for the subdivision. Lawrence B. James, the firm’s owner, donated the materials to the University of Houston Libraries in 2007.
Claude Elliott (1896-1958) was a historian, university professor and administrator, writer, and collector of Texas history material. He was born in Cross Plains, Texas on September 21, 1896 and grew up and received his early education in Dora, Texas. He attended Abilene Christian College, Simmons College (now Hardin-Simmons University) and West Texas State Teachers College, then served in the United States Navy during World War I. He completed his undergraduate education in 1923, receiving a bachelor of arts degree from Southwest Texas Teachers College (later Southwest Texas State University and now Texas State University).  In 1928 he received a master of arts, and in 1934 a doctorate of philosophy, from The University of Texas at Austin, studying under Eugene C. Barker, Charles W. Ramsdell, and Walter P. Webb. Elliott taught school while working on his graduate degrees: he taught history and served as the principal at Donna High School, served as superintendent of the La Feria school system, and taught history at UT.  In 1927 he married Emma Edwin Moore of San Marcos.
Elliot held a number of positions at Southwest Texas State University. He was professor of history 1929 to 1942, registrar and director of personnel 1942 to 1949, coordinator of veteran affairs 1943 to 1945, and the first dean of graduate studies 1949 to 1958. He was a member of a number of historical organizations, including the Texas State Historical Association, the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, the Texas State Teachers Association, and the Classroom Teachers Association. Elliott was a fellow of the Texas State Historical Association, serving as vice-president 1947 to 1952 and president 1953 to 1955. He was a member of the advisory council and a major contributor to the first two volumes of the Handbook of Texas.
His publications include Leathercoat: The Life History of a Texas Patriot (1938), and Theses on Texas History (1955). Texas: Wilderness to Space Age was published posthumously in 1962 by his wife and Dr. William Pool of Southwest Texas State University. Elliott’s articles were published in the Southwestern Historical Quarterly, the Georgia Historical Review, the Southwestern Social Science Quarterly (now the Social Science Quarterly), and the Journal of Southern History.
Charles Flemming McElhinney (commonly known as C. F. McElhinney or “Mr. Mac”) was born on Sept. 19, 1907 in Truro, Nova Scotia. He received a bachelor’s degree from Acadia University in 1926 at the age of eighteen and taught in public schools in Canada before continuing his graduate studies. He received a master of arts degree from Columbia University in 1928.
Mr. McElhinney taught in the public school systems in Chester Basin and Halifax, Nova Scotia before moving to the United States. He was an assistant professor at the State Teachers College in Troy, Alabama from 1930-1931 and at the Mississippi State College for Women from 1931-1934. He moved to Houston in 1934, taking the position of assistant director of curriculum and research for the Houston Independent Schools District from 1934-1939. Mr. McElhinney then became the director of research from 1939-1945, when he became the business manager for the University of Houston, which until 1945 had been operated by the Houston Independent School District. During this time he also served as a staff assistant to Mr. E. E. Oberholtzer, the president of the University.
From 1945 until his retirement in 1973, Mr. McElhinney served as the business manager of the University. During this time, he was given the position of vice-president and business manager from 1950-1962, and was senior vice president for finance and treasurer from 1962-1973. He also served as interim president of the University from 1953-1954.
During Mr. McElhinney’s years at the University, he also served as a faculty member in the department of education, and as a sponsor of several student activities and programs. Additionally he was the coach of the first athletic team fielded by the University (ice hockey) in 1934 while the University was still known as the Houston Junior College.
When Mr. McElhinney retired in 1973 (at the end of the fiscal year), the Board of Regents renamed the Graduate Studies building in honor of McElhinney’s decades of service to the University.
Loyd S. Swenson, Jr., was one of the editors for 100 Years of Science and Technology in Texas, published by Rice University Press in 1986. A professor of history at the University of Houston, he is a member of Sigma Xi, which sponsored the volume tracing scientific developments in Texas during the hundred year history of Sigma Xi.
The Southeast Texas Sigma Xi Council (SETSXC) was established in 1984 in an effort to help promote and coordinate activities surrounding the centennial of Sigma Xi, founded in 1886. Nine chapters in southeastern Texas joined together to better promote the centennial and other related activities. The publication of 100 Years of Science and Technology in Texas, was one of the major activities undertaken by SETSXC during the centennial year. Other activities sponsored by SETSXC included speakers and open houses at different universities and companies.
The Sigma Xi Centennial was promoted in conjunction with sesquicentennial activities for Texas independence, as well as the founding of the city of Houston.
Born at Le Havre in Normandy, in 1892, Jules Vern came to this country in 1930.  Jules Vern was called in 1934 to the University of Houston to occupy a chair of professor of French; he organized the study of French so it would be a pleasure for his students to learn this language.  When the Cullen Building was opened, he decorated his vast classroom with oil paintings, glass closets containing collections of rare objects, and shelves holding documentary books and foreign magazines.  Soon his department was outstanding.  He created a club, Le Quartier Latin, and a newspaper that he humorously called Le Feuille de Chou, written and published by his students. 
With great success, he had previously founded Le Petit Théâtre Français de Houston, where many of the plays were his own and where French speaking Houstonians, professors of French, including the founder, and students performed.  The French Government recognized his efforts in awarding him the decoration Officier d’Académie.
But the great achievement of his life has been the creations of Le Bayou.  Jules Vern had the ambitious idea to publish a French magazine in Houston, a magazine in which would be found novels, short stories, essays, critiques, folklore, legends, and poetry concerning France and the South of the United States.  In spite of financial difficulties, his tremendous will and perseverance brought success, and Le Bayou was born.  In the following years, Le Bayou became known the world over, and was praised by the most prominent writers, not only of France, but of all the French-speaking countries.  In 1946, the Academie Française granted to this magazine Le Prix de la Langue Française and a medal engraved with its name.  Later, Jules A. Vern received coveted decoration of Officier de l’Instruction Publique as a reward for his literary achievements.
The University of Houston Libraries held a conference on document forgery in 1989. The documents in this collection were selected for exhibition and were transferred to Special Collection following the conclusion of the conference. Exhibit labels with document and forgery information can be found in the collection.
Carlisle Floyd was born on June 11, 1926. A South Carolina native, Floyd studied music at Converse College and Syracuse University before joining the piano faculty at Florida State University in 1947, a position he held for the next 30 years. In 1976, Floyd accepted the University of Houston School of Music's M.D. Anderson Professorship. He held this position until 1996.
Floyd composed myriad operatic works, including several premiered in Houston, including Bilby's Doll, Willie Stark, Cold Sassy Tree, and Prince of Players.
This collection includes slides of life in Eastern Europe and Soviet Russia during the late 1920's to the early 1930's. There are also examples of artwork, monuments, and the palaces of the wealthy.
University of Houston Provost George Magner established the Core Advisory Committee in 1982 to implement and supervise a new undergraduate core curriculum. Over the next three and a half years, the committee considered 273 courses submitted by the various schools and departments of the university, eventually approving 157 for inclusion in the core. The committee issued its final report in July 1985, transferring responsibility for implementing and supervising the core curriculum to Undergraduate Council.
The city began on August 30, 1836, when Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen ran an advertisement in the Telegraph and Texas Register for the "Town of Houston." The town-site, which featured a mixture of timber and grassland, was on the level Coastal Plain in the middle of the future Harris County, at 95.4° west longitude and 30.3° north latitude. When first formed in 1949 the Houston Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area covered only Harris County and had a population of 806,701 people. The increasing use of automobiles also led to the building of expressways in the 1950s that extended over 200 miles by 1990. The prosperity after World War II brought the world famous Galleria shopping mall with its interior ice-skating rink in 1970. In the ordering of urban space Houston politicians and voters have continually rejected the use of zoning. The lack of zoning has not affected development to any great extent, however, since heavy industry concentrated in the area of the ship channel and subdivisions controlled construction through deed restrictions. This casual attitude toward land use encouraged business expansion.
Sources:
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. "Houston, Texas." http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/HH/hdh3.html Accessed March 5, 2009
Author: Stephen James
The city began on August 30, 1836, when Augustus Chapman Allen and John Kirby Allen ran an advertisement in the Telegraph and Texas Register for the "Town of Houston." The town-site, which featured a mixture of timber and grassland, was on the level Coastal Plain in the middle of the future Harris County, at 95.4° west longitude and 30.3° north latitude. When first formed in 1949 the Houston Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area covered only Harris County and had a population of 806,701 people. The increasing use of automobiles also led to the building of expressways in the 1950s that extended over 200 miles by 1990. The prosperity after World War II brought the world famous Galleria shopping mall with its interior ice-skating rink in 1970. In the ordering of urban space Houston politicians and voters have continually rejected the use of zoning. The lack of zoning has not affected development to any great extent, however, since heavy industry concentrated in the area of the ship channel and subdivisions controlled construction through deed restrictions. This casual attitude toward land use encouraged business expansion.
Sources:
Handbook of Texas Online, s.v. "Houston, Texas." http://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/online/articles/HH/hdh3.html Accessed March 5, 2009
Author: Stephen James
Born in 1928, Sue Dauphin graduated cum laude from the University of Houston, and earned a Master of Arts in Theatre from the University of Houston Clear Lake. Her syndicated newspaper columns Houston Fine Arts, Diversions, and Curtain Call appeared in a variety of Houston area newspapers. In the course of writing her columns, she became intimately familiar with the many small theatres in the greater Houston area as well as the major professional theatre arts organizations around the world. Ms. Dauphin was the theatre critic for radio station KUHF, where her reviews were heard weekly on the program Curtain Call. In 1981, she authored the book Houston By Stages: A History of Theatre in Houston. She received various national awards in theatre criticism, and also taught theatre classes at Rice University.
Debra Danburg was a representative of the Democratic Party in the state of Texas from 1981 to 2003. She was a dynamic leader who brought about significant changes in many outdated laws. She is an attorney in private practice and has dealt with many criminal, as well as civil, cases. Debra Danburg represented district 137 in Houston, which encompassed Montrose, The Heights, Memorial Park, Greenway Plaza, Highland Village, the Galleria and Gulfton areas in Houston.
Debra Danburg was born in Houston in the year 1951. The Danburgs are long-time residents of the Heights, part of the District which Danburg served. She began working on her bachelor’s degree at the age of 16 at the University of Houston. She actively took part in the Student Association and was eventually elected for the post of vice-president in 1973-74. Danburg obtained a bachelor’s in sociology in 1974 and in 1979 received her law degree from the University of Houston Bates College of Law. She served as an administrative aide to Ron Waters from 1976-1980 before she ran for election as a Democratic Party candidate for the former District 79.
During the five years that she worked for Waters, Danburg researched, wrote and encouraged legislation. She was involved in issues ranging from the Equal Rights Amendment to street and sewer repairs. She obtained governmental appointments for constituents and prevented the merger of two local precincts, which would have disenfranchised voters. She was also a member of the Democratic Executive Committee during this time.
Debra Danburg was elected to the 67th Legislature for her first term in 1981. She served on various committees during her tenure in the Legislature. She was the Chair of the Elections Committee during the 73rd and 74th Legislatures (1993-1997) and of the Subcommittee on Budget & Oversight in the 71st Legislature (1989-1991). Danburg was also the vice-chair of the Committee on Cultural and Historic Resources. Additionally, she was a member of the Committees on State Affairs, Business and Industry, Criminal Jurisprudence, State Affairs and Appropriations.
Debra Danburg was instrumental in bringing about legislation concerning women’s reproductive rights. She strongly opposed pro-life groups and successfully upheld laws protecting a woman’s right to choose. Danburg also argued for an “open mind” on abortion in order that women could have “clean, licensed and safe” abortions, thus preventing unnecessary deaths resulting from illegal and unsafe clinics.
One of her most significant achievements as a legislator was the passage of HB 1730, which made important changes in the old rape laws. Danburg coined the term “sexual assault” to replace “rape” which would henceforth include all genders and all acts of rape and attempted rape. The bill signified the amount of violence involved in the acts and hence removed any kind of “pleasure” references. Her law became a model for other states and was eventually applied nationwide. Danburg was also successful in passing HB 263, which ended spousal exemption from sexual assault. Spouses could now report marital rape, which eventually could lead to prosecution. She also introduced a landmark bill on stalking to join those other states where stalking was considered an offense.
Another of Danburg’s important accomplishments was the passage of the “3-G” legislation. She was the first woman to pass this bill, which would stop parole and “good time” early release of criminals convicted of capital murder, aggravated kidnapping, aggravated robbery or aggravated sexual assault. It was observed that these criminals often commit violent acts within one year of their release. With the passage of this bill, such criminals would not be released until they served their full terms. Danburg also supported alternative punishments based on the brutality of the crimes. Some of the options included drug rehabilitation counseling, restitution centers and boot camps. She sponsored legislation that endorsed the Sexual Offender Treatment Program, aimed at rehabilitating sex crime offenders before they got out of prison. She supported the idea of reserving prisons for the worst offenders.
Danburg sponsored a number of initiatives toward preventing hate crimes. She worked to pass legislation which would grant and protect the rights of gays and lesbians. Her proposals sought to restrain perpetrators of hate crimes against homosexuals, religious groups and racial minorities. She filed legislation preventing discrimination based on race, color, sex, religion, origin, or sexual orientation. She was responsible for introducing the first bill to allow marriages with no regard to sexual orientation. HIV/AIDS also was another major concern for Danburg. She passed legislation to facilitate easy purchase of drugs like AZT, to protect the right to insurance regardless of blood tests, and to create councils to aid state and local agencies to fight HIV and AIDS. She supported organizations such as the Houston Gay & Lesbian Political Caucus, AIDS Foundation of Houston and The Diana Foundation, and she actively took part in Lesbian/Gay Pride Week.
The last of Debra Danburg’s major concerns, represented in this collection, was the Electric Utility Restructuring bill. Danburg was part of a delegation that visited California and Pennsylvania in order to study their utility models and hence implement a similar model in Texas. The bill allowed customers to choose their electric provider and, conversely, the providers could compete with each other to give their customers the best deals.
Danburg also was involved in many other issues concerning METRO and the Southwest Freeway in Houston, as well as a number of other concerns local to Houston. As a member of the House for twenty-two years, she was an experienced leader who played a key role in ensuring equal opportunity and justice to Texas citizens.
Danburg was the recipient of many awards within and outside the legislature. She received the Best Legislator Award during her first year at the Capitol. She received the Most Effective Legislator Award by the National Organization for Women and, in recognition of her activities, received the Outstanding Legislator Award in 1990 by the Texas Association of Symphony Orchestras. Her list of other awards include Alumna of the Year from the UH College of Social Sciences (1993), the Women’s Suffrage Award (1991) and the Environmental Defense Award (1987).
Women for Justice was a model program, which started in 1971 and gradually ended around 1997. The program, ran by women, became an independent organization in 1977 after originally being apart of the Women in Action’s Criminal Justice Division. It was dedicated to working with inmates, ex-offenders, all criminal justice agencies, Houston/Harris County Courts, and Goree State Prison.
The primary purpose of the program was to teach offenders to deal with the trauma of incarceration while they awaited trial or served short term sentences. Moreover, the organization strived to help inmates and offenders understand the court system as it pertained to them. The program tracked as many clients as possible so that they could be assisted in making future plans. Additionally, a community based Resource Center was established. Social services were provided to inmates, ex-offenders, parolees and their families in a non-threatening atmosphere by a group of citizen volunteers aptly named Volunteers in Action.
The services provided varied greatly. The Christmas project, which was conducted during the week of Christmas, provided inmates with donated socks, toiletries, apparel, etc. Job counseling was provided free of charge to help former inmates and parolees in search of employment. There were daily/weekly prison visitations/workshops given by Volunteers in Action. Women for Justice received financial support from numerous organizations and companies such as Shell Oil Company, Exxon U.S.A, and First Presbyterian Church. In addition, the M.D. Anderson Foundation donated a house, which allowed for the organization to effectively perform daily activities and operations.
In 1969, Ninfa’s husband died suddenly, and she was left to raise five children. Ninfa mortgaged her house and opened a little taqueria on the site of the tortilla factory. In 1973, she opened a ten-table restaurant, serving her mother’s recipes and adding her own. With money from a friend in Mexico, Ninfa soon opened a second dining room and later pushed out a wall to expand again. Within ten years, the single restaurant expanded into a multi-million dollar business with nine restaurants in Houston and one in Dallas. In 1985, Ninfa employed 800-1000 people and served about two million people per year. Some believe that Ninfa Laurenzo laid the foundation for the Mexican restaurant industry in Houston.
Ninfa’s restaurants were so successful that expansion came fast and led to excessive debt. Restaurants opened too quickly and without reliable store managers. In 1985, Ninfa, USA became a subsidiary of McFaddin, which employed her sons as executives. Ninfa remained with Ninfa’s Inc. That arrangement did not last. By 1997, an Austin restaurant chain bought the company to pull it out of bankruptcy.
With her success, Ninfa gave back to the community with nonprofit service. She served on the boards of the Gulf Coast Regional Blood Center, Houston Community College System, Houston Metropolitan Transit Authority and Houston Hispanic Forum. She received many rewards as well, the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce’s Business Recognition Award, for example. In 1984, Vice-President George Bush appointed Ninfa to be one of five goodwill ambassadors to welcome Pope John Paul II to Puerto Rico. In 1996, Ninfa Laurenzo was named one of eight Legends of Texas along with Walter Cronkite and Barbara Jordan, for their impact on Texas and their local communities. Ninfa was inducted into the Texas Women’s Hall of Fame in 1998, and Theater under the Stars made her life into a musical.
Ninfa Laurenzo represented her community politically as well. In 1988, Ninfa seconded George H. W. Bush’s nomination for president in the Republican Convention in New Orleans. In 1992, Ninfa was co-chair of the hospitality committee for the Republican Convention in Houston where she opened the convention with a speech in both English and Spanish, and she led the delegates in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Through marriage, the Laurenzo family is tied to both the Mandolas and Carrabas. At the opening of a new restaurant, one of Ninfa’s sons, Tom Laurenzo said, “We have a story to tell about a woman who is a great cook and about her family that followed her into the business.” Ninfa Laurenzo died in 2001, but her restaurants and her children’s restaurants continue as landmarks in Houston’s cultural history.
Scenic Houston is a chapter of Scenic Texas, Inc., a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that focuses on promoting policies and actions that enhance the beauty and appeal of our streetscapes and roadways. Scenic Houston works to reduce existing billboard blight, prevent new billboard construction, foster attractive on-premises signage, incorporate context-sensitive design in the planning of highways and other public projects, and protect the natural beauty and distinctive character of our communities for the benefit of successive generations.
Scenic Houston's roots are deep. In 1966, concerned Houstonians formed Billboards Limited to fight against the mushrooming billboard blight in our city. Billboards Limited fought to establish, for the first time ever, a City of Houston sign ordinance as a means to create standards and regulations for billboards in the city. Despite overtures from Billboards Limited to work together in this process, the billboard industry fought any kind of regulation and would not compromise. In addition, City elected leadership of the era was ineffective in leading stakeholders toward establishing effective standards. By 1980, Houston was home to more than 10,000 billboards and was known in the media as the "Billboard Capitol of the World".
Such a designation was recognized by not only Billboards Limited but a new generation of community leaders as an economic development black eye for Houston. In 1980, Houston city council unanimously passed an ordinance banning new billboard construction in the city. This marked a significant turning point in the campaign for signage standards in the city, and sparked a desire for statewide advocacy to protect the appearance and quality of life of roads and streets statewide. As a result, in 1984, Billboards Limited was re-organized as The Lone Star Roadside Council, a state-wide non-profit organization. A final name change occurred in 1991 with the establishment of Scenic Texas, Inc. as the statewide entity and Scenic Houston as its largest and most active local chapter.
Currently, the chapters of Scenic Texas are run by a mix of staff members and volunteers. Scenic Houston has been able to attract generous donors from Houston. Successful in its attempts to make Houston an uncommonly beautiful and economically dynamic city, Scenic Houston believes that successful economic development can only be achieved if a high priority is placed on quality of life issues. The organization seeks and supports public policies, at all levels of government, which promote and enhance the visual quality of life aspects of Houston's urban landscape.
Special Collections collects and preserves historically significant materials. Its holdings comprise a rare book collection and ten main archival collecting areas. In some instances, Special Collections gathers materials on a single topic to preserve them and make them available. In these cases, Special Collections is seen as the creator of the artificially constructed collection.
Richard O. Jonas (1898-1983) received a BA from the University of Texas in 1920, an MA from the University of Texas in 1923 and completed all advanced graduate work for the Ph.D., except a dissertation. Jonas was Professor of Psychology and Education and the Director of Guidance at Wichita Falls Junior College from 1922 to 1942. He came to the University of Houston in 1944 as Associate Professor of Psychology and Chief Counselor, continuing in this capacity until 1947. From 1947 to 1951, he served as Professor of Psychology and Director of Guidance and from 1951 to 1956 as Professor of Psychology and Consultant in Guidance. In 1956, Jonas became Research Professor of Psychology.
Professor Ruth Pennybacker or "Miss Pennybacker", as she preferred, joined the U.H. faculty in 1935. Her application to the university included a letter of recommendation written by the distinguished Texas historian and writer J. Frank Dobie. Pennybacker, a 1934 Vassar graduate, went to work in the newly formed English Department at the University of Houston where she taught freshman composition and creative writing. A driving force in the creation of the U.H. creative writing program, Pennybacker also founded the Harvest, a campus publication for students, poets, and creative writers.
Faculty Association
The Faculty Association of the University of Houston Constitution and By - Laws, adopted January 20, 1947 outlined the principle purposes as: to foster a bond of fellowship among its members; to promote the progress of the University of Houston; to act as a service organization and open forum, and to direct the operation of the Faculty Club. Membership was limited to full time faculty, including research faculty of the University of Houston whose duties were primarily non-administrative.
On November 19, 1962, a faculty committee concluded that the first three parts of the Faculty Association Constitution were being served by the Faculty Senate, and that the sole purpose of the Faculty Associates seemed to be; "To direct the operation of the Faculty Club." The merger Committee recommended the amalgamation of the two associations and that a committee composed of the Chairman of the two organization plus two members at large be appointed to rewrite the constitution and by laws of the new organization to be named: University of Houston Faculty Club.
Faculty Assembly
The Faculty Assembly consisted of almost 100 representatives from the institutional department and colleges, with the number of representatives varying from four to one, depending upon the student enrollment within the component involved. The Assembly had an elected president and secretary, a 14-person Faculty Council with its own Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and representative to the Executive Council; and an eight-person Steering Committee. Dr. T.C. Sinclair stated that the purpose of the Faculty Assembly would be to create a "real faculty community of scholars" and that the work of the Assembly would be carried on largely by committees.
Faculty Senate
Faculty Senate adopted its formal Constitution in May 1961, with the goal of providing "an instrument for cooperative action in attaining such ends as the member may select." The Faculty Senate reorganized, freely, in 1962 at the beginning of the Hoffman administration and formed several new committees including a Committee on University Committees, Student Life, Educational Policy, and Faculty Affairs. The first official faculty handbook was also completed during this period. The Faculty Senate consists of 52 permanent members elected by the faculty.
Shared governance is now a major goal of the organization and is defined by the Faculty Senate as the "collective commitment of the faculty and administration at the University of Houston to work cooperatively, together with the University Constituencies, to achieve a common vision of excellence for the University.
Professor Joseph M. Doggett joined the university's English Department faculty during the fall of 1954 as a Visiting Professor, becoming an Associate Professor in 1955, and a Professor in 1958. Before coming to the University of Houston, Professor Doggett served as an assistant professor at Florida State University. He was affiliated with many organizations including Torch International, the Modern Language Association, and the local chapter of the Civil War Round Table and as an active board member of the American Red Cross of Harris County. 
Professor Doggett obtained a B.A., from Wofford College in 1930, an M.A., from Peabody College in 1937, and a Ph.D., from Peabody College in 1950. For further information see the U.H. Faculty Vita Records, 1969-077.
The purpose of the University of Houston Chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) was to "facilitate a more effective cooperation among teachers and research scholars in the university community for the promotion of the interests of higher education and research and in general to increase the usefulness and advance the standards, ideals, and welfare of the profession."
As cited in the organization's Constitution, membership and voting was limited to members of the faculty of the University of Houston who were Active or Emeritus Members and Junior Members of the American Association of University Professors. Associate Members of the American Association of University Professors could be invited to meetings as the Executive Council deemed necessary.
The University of Houston played an important part in the United States' efforts during the Second World War. Among its many contributions, the institution housed the first Naval School established in a college, training more than five thousand Navy personnel and several hundred Army and Navy pilots. Following the war, many of the nation's servicemen and women returned to colleges and universities to take advantage of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, better known as the GI Bill of Rights. Under the GI Bill, veterans received up to $500 a year from the government to cover tuition and fees as well as a monthly stipend.
Just as the University of Houston contributed to the war effort, following the war it contributed to the education of thousands of returning veterans. Dr. W.W. Kemmerer, assistant to the university president, strongly influenced the university's successful shift from a wartime to a peacetime stance. The postwar years were an era of significant growth for the fledgling institution. Many UH students used the GI Bill to further training obtained in the military, learn a vocational trade, or pursue college degrees. Enrollment for Fall semester 1944 reached 2,720, a significant increase from the 1,104 students just a year before. By the 1947-1948 school year enrollment reached 10,882.
To aid veterans in their transition from military to student life, UH established a guidance program with Richard O. Jonas as chief counselor and Roy A. Crouch as head of the office of psychological services. In December 1944 the U.S. Veterans Administration selected the University of Houston as the site for an official VA Advisement Center, augmenting the guidance program's effectiveness. The office provided assistance in application for admission to the university and obtaining compensation through the GI Bill. A special housing bureau helped veterans and their families locate places to live. Counselors, often former members of the armed forces themselves, aided ex-soldiers with registration, career guidance, and overall readjustment to civilian life.
The University of Houston played an important part in the United States' efforts during the Second World War. Among its many contributions, the institution housed the first Naval School established in a college, training more than five thousand navy personnel and several hundred Army and Navy pilots. Following the war, many of the nations servicemen and women returned to colleges and universities to take advantage of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944 - better known as the GI Bill of Rights. Under the GI Bill, veterans received up to $500 a year from the government to cover tuition and fees as well as a monthly stipend.
Just as the University of Houston contributed to the war effort, following the war it contributed to the education of thousands of returning veterans. Many UH students used the GI Bill to further training obtained in the military, learn a vocational trade, or pursue college degrees. By 1945, a steady influx of veterans created a shortage in student housing. The Board of Regents realized the university needed more housing and on November 9, 1945 allotted $194,000 for temporary quarters. A week later UH accepted a gift of three hundred trailers. The converted navy barracks and the trailers formed a nucleus of ex-servicemen's housing known as the Veterans Village. Rent ranged from $30 to $37.50 a month.
The Veterans Village became a community in itself, complete with a constitution, governing council, regular newsletter, and nursery school. A veteran's club also formed on campus and drew many of its members from those living in the Village. The Veterans Club and Veterans' Council concerned themselves with veterans rights and even petitioned Congress for an investigation into local bureau of veterans affairs in late 1945 and early 1946 when numerous UH students did not receive their disbursements. In 1956, due to deteriorating conditions, the last trailer was removed as the Veterans Village yielded to the expanding campus.
In December 1976, President Philip Hoffman began a project that he was particularly determined to bring to a successful conclusion. On December 7, at the Houston Country Club, he announced the 50th Anniversary of the University, with events to run throughout 1977. At that kickoff event, Hoffman also announced the UH 50 Fund, a fundraising campaign with the goal of raising between $23.5 and $32.5 million for priority needs by 1981. During this period the Cullen Foundation pledged $3 million to endow nine distinguished professorships contingent upon the university raising another $6 million in matching funds. The university selected four topical areas for the yearlong celebration: resources, technologies, lifestyles, and environments. These topics were interwoven in lectures and seminars throughout the year.
The events of the half-century observance were varied and included: the French government sending an arts festival; a series of noted speakers, seminars, and conferences; a German Expressionist art exhibition and lectures; a symposium in conjunction with the dedication of the new College of Optometry; and the dedication of the Freeman Wing of the library.
From its inception as a four-year institution in 1934 until the 1942-1943 academic year, the University of Houston consisted of the General College and the Junior College. All areas of academic study at the upper levels were pursued within the General College, while the Junior College provided more vocational and technical training. With the 1942-44 catalog, a new organizational plan was announced. This plan divided the General College into seven schools, based primarily on different academic disciplines.
The College of Arts and Sciences, created in 1942, consisted of three divisions: the Division of Cultural Arts, the Division of Sciences, and the Division of Social Sciences. The departments within the College of Arts and Sciences were as varied as the divisions, with students able to pursue both Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees in areas ranging from drama and music to mathematics and physics.
The College of Arts and Sciences continued as the central instructional unit of the University of Houston through the mid-1970s. The curricula encouraged students to explore many fields of intellectual interest, while examining one field in depth. In late 1972, President Philip Hoffman appointed a committee to investigate a possible reorganization of the university's administration. One area of investigation was the possible division of the College of Arts and Sciences.
The study found that the areas of responsibility of the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences were "too broad," making the "offering of dynamic leadership to the college almost impossible because of the numerous departments and special programs, which report to this office." With the recommendations of the study group and President Hoffman, the Board of Regents authorized the reorganization of the College of Arts and Sciences. In 1975 the College of Arts and Sciences was divided into three colleges: the College of Humanities and Fine Arts, the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, and the College of Social Sciences.
Professor John Q. Anderson was born in Wheeler County, Texas May 30, 1916. He received his A.B. from Oklahoma State University in 1939, his M.A. from Louisiana State University in 1948, and his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in 1952. His World War II tour of duty included time spent in England, France, and Germany.
Professor Anderson held teaching positions at the University of Texas, University of North Carolina, and McNeese State College before his 1953 appointment as Instructor at Texas A & M University, where he was Assistant Professor, 1954-1956; Associate Professor, 1956-1959; Professor, 1959-1962; and Department Head, 1962-1966. In 1966 he became Professor of American literature at the University of Houston and went on disability leave May 13, 1974.
Active in professional and learned societies, he was president of the Texas Folklore Society and the American Studies Association of Texas, which named him its first Distinguished Fellow in Houston on November 16, 1974.
Professor Anderson was author of more than 70 articles and books. Some of his books included Brokenburn: The Journal of Kate Stone, 1861-1868 (1955), A Texas Surgeon in the C.S.A. (1957), Louisiana Swamp Doctor: The Life and Writings of Henry Clay Lewis (1962), Tales of Frontier Texas (1966), John C. Duval, First Texas Man of Letters (1967), With the Bark On: Popular Humor of the Old South (1967), Campaigning with Parson's Texas Cavalry Brigade, C.S.A. (1967), Texas Folk Medicine (1970), and The Liberating Gods: Emerson on Poets and Poetry (1971).
Dr. John Q. Anderson, Professor Emeritus of English, died February 19, 1975, following a long illness.
The Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System, is a statutory board appointed by the Governor. It is responsible for statewide planning and policy-making to assure quality and efficiency in Texas higher education. The Board's primary areas of responsibility are financial planning, senior colleges and universities, community colleges, and continuing education, health affairs, student services and campus planning.
Tom C. Battin was born in Marietta, Ohio, on July 29, 1905. In 1935 he received his BS in Television from Ohio University. He earned his MA from the University of Michigan in 1940. In 1951, he became the recipient of the first PhD ever awarded in Radio/Television Communication, also from the University of Michigan.
His thesis, The Use of the Diary and Survey Method Involving the Questionnaire Interview Technique, was widely used by television networks because it provided the first audience measurement of families' viewing habits. Considered a pioneer in educational television, Dr. Battin was involved in productions at the University of Michigan, the University of Florida, and the University of Houston. He taught at UH for 21 years and was Professor Emeritus at the University of Houston School of Communication.
Dr. Battin had experience in university theater, motion picture production, and acted in character roles in several films. He served as dialogue director for Cecil B. deMille and worked with director George Schaffer.
Dr. Battin published articles on television in educational and trade journals. He contributed chapters to widely used texts for college television instruction, including "Understanding Television: an Introduction to Broadcasting." Tom Jerriel and Bill Fleming were among his students. He died September 20, 1987.
The Office of University Relations, as documented in these records, formed part of the Division of University Advancement alongside the Office of Development. The Office of University Relations supported the university through the offices of internal and external communications, publications, and marketing. The Office of External Communications generated communications pieces, such as news releases to the media, and responses to media inquiries on behalf of the university. Its goal was to ensure information about the university and its colleges is communicated accurately and timely to the public via the news media, both local and beyond. The Office of Internal Communications disseminated major university news and events to faculty, staff and students. The Office of University Marketing sought to enhance the University of Houston's efforts to bolster the image of the university.
As of February 2017, the Division of University Advancement focuses on Development and Alumni Relations, whereas many of the other responsibilities formerly identified with the Office of University Relations are now associated with the Division of University Marketing, Communication and Media Relations.
References:
[1] Division of University Advancement http://www.uh.edu/about/offices/university-advancement/ accessed February 20, 2017
[2] Division of University Marketing, Communication and Media Relations http://www.uh.edu/about/offices/ummr/ accessed February 20, 2017
The Petroleum Institute was an annual educational seminar, consisting of three courses, held at the University of Houston from 1958 until 1994. It was a joint effort between the Oil Information Committee of the Texas Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association and the Department of Curriculum and Instruction of the College of Education. University faculty and individuals from the petroleum industry conducted the Institute. The Institute was designed to inform participants about all aspects of the petroleum industry. By doing so, it crossed the traditional course content fields that had previously taught at UH. The areas where the content of the Institute could be used were as follows: 1. Sciences (emphasized earth science, geology, chemistry, and physics); 2. Environmental Studies; 3. Social Sciences (emphasized economics, geography, history, and political science).
The content of the courses included presentations by lecturers from the petroleum industry who were experts on a particular subject. The courses also included the development of teaching materials that could be used to infuse energy education into the curriculum. The three courses carried three semester hours of graduate credit and were accepted by many graduate programs within the Department of Curriculum and Instruction.
In response to student demands, the African American Studies Program was established during the late 1960s. The program offers courses that focus on the history and culture of African Americans and the contributions that people of African descent have made to American and world civilizations.
Over the past thirty years the African American Studies Program has added new courses, received additional and continuous funding, stimulated increased student interest, and expanded its associated cultural activities and community presence. Recruitment and retention of African American students has also been an important goal of the African American Studies Program. Enrollment now (as of 2002) stands at over 1,600 students.
The organization outlined its goals for the nineties as: (1) creating a new generation of leaders who challenge stereotypes, prejudice, discrimination and belief systems that hinder the intellectual emancipation and personal growth of all members of society, (2) promoting a mutual understanding between various ethnic and cultural groups of the university, and (3) developing an awareness of the richness of the African American experience and the contributions of African Americans to society.
References:
African American Studies Program Handout, Box 2, folder 1.
Hazelwitch Productions was established in 1981 by a group of women dedicated to bringing lesbian and feminist performers to the Houston community. The organization was incorporated in April 1983 and, over a fifteen year period, produced around forty events featuring musicians, comedians, and performance artists. In addition to performances, Hazelwitch presented films, workshops, and counseling sessions.
At any one time there were between three and five active members in the corporation, supported by a network of secondary members and volunteers. Key members were Cheryl Wolfarth (the organization's founder), Tori Williams, Pokey Anderson, Cindy Edwards, Katherine Hubbard, Kathy Wilcox, and Gail Eldridge. Remembering Hazelwitch, Kathy Wilcox stressed the cooperative nature of the corporation's management and pointed out that officers were chosen for legal reasons only; decisions were made by consensus in an atmosphere of mutual support and with a strong commitment to feminist ideals.
Although Hazelwitch did not publish a newsletter, events were promoted through the local gay/lesbian press. One notable publicity outlet was "The Wand," the newsletter of the lesbian collective "Womynspace" which had been active since the mid 1980s and has produced the group "Lesbians Over the Age of Fifty," or "L.O.A.F." Pokey Anderson and Cheryl Wolfarth also publicized Hazelwitch on a KPFT radio show which aired until 1994.
Typical venues for productions were churches, restaurants, university auditoriums, and theaters, and Hazelwitch engaged the Houston Area Women's Center and local area bookstores, among others, as outlets for ticket sales. The corporation also enjoyed the sponsorship of organizations such as the University of Houston chapter of N.O.W. and the Montrose Counseling Center. In turn they donated proceedings to groups such as the Aids Foundation of Houston and KPFT Radio.
Despite frugal financial management the 1990s brought difficulties for the corporation due to a decline in ticket sales to Hazelwitch events. Patty Larkin's appearance at the Heinen Theatre in March 1996 was the corporation's last major production, and the process of dissolution was initiated that same year. As lesbian performers have begun to enjoy more mainstream success, their need for the kind of close-knit community support, which Hazelwitch provided, has apparently waned. Nevertheless, it is largely due to the groundbreaking efforts of organizations such as Hazelwitch that this on-going transition to the mainstream is possible.
The Top Ladies of Distinction is a national professional and humanitarian organization, incorporated in 1964 in Texas. In addition to the national organization, there are local chapters throughout the United States, which hold area meetings. The original focus of the organization was to promote scholarship for today's youth, to provide experiences that would help youth develop social graces to perform comfortably in a cultural society, to point up opportunities for youth to become employable, to help make America beautiful, and to assist the aged. This changed in 1972 to focus on the Top Teens of America (a program for young people, sponsored by the Top Ladies of Distinction), programming for senior citizens, community beautification, and improvement in the status of women. These programming areas have continued to be the main priorities of the Top Ladies of Distinction.
References:
Top Ladies of Distinction website http://www.tlodinc.org/
In the course of her career Nikki Van Hightower has been Women's Advocate for the City of Houston, Moderator/Commentator at Radio Station KTRH, Executive Director of the Houston Area Women's Center, and Harris County Treasurer. She has held teaching positions at the University of Houston, Texas A & M University, Lee Community College, the University of Texas School of Public Health, and the New York Institute of Technology. She has been an outspoken activist in the women's movement and a leading proponent of equality for women in the city of Houston.
Van Hightower became involved in the women's movement while in college in the early 1970s; she continued her involvement after moving to Houston in 1975. In 1976 she was appointed to the position of Women's Advocate by Mayor Fred Hofheinz, and was responsible for "coordinating efforts to secure equal rights for women" in Houston. In this capacity she served as the city liaison for the International Women's Year National Conference, which was held in Houston in 1977, and raised public awareness of women's issues with her daily presentation of the Women's Advocate Hour on Radio Station KTRH.
Van Hightower's criticism of inequalities in city employment practices, and her feminist activities, ensured her unpopularity with City Council members. In 1977 they voted to reduce her salary to $1.00 a year in an effort to force her to abandon the role of Women's Advocate. Hofheinz countered by reinstating her as "Affirmative Action Specialist," allowing her to carry out the same job under a different name. She remained in this position until Jim McConn, who succeeded Hofheinz as mayor, fired her in March 1978.
KTRH Radio subsequently hired Van Hightower to present daily commentaries and host the call-in show Doubletalk with Ed Brandon. She was fired from the station, apparently for being too controversial, in March 1979.
By this time she was committed to working with the Houston Area Women's Center, which she helped to establish in 1977. In 1979 she became the Center's Executive Director and held that position until 1986.
In 1983, Van Hightower entered elective politics, campaigning unsuccessfully for City Council At Large Position 4. In 1986, she launched a successful campaign for Harris County Treasurer, and took office in January 1987. For the next three years she fought policies which compromised the Treasurer's control of county finances. In 1990 she was unsuccessful in her bid as Democratic Nominee for State Treasurer. She currently holds the positions of Lecturer in the Department of Political Science, and Senior Lecturer with the Health Science Center at Texas A & M University.
Throughout her career, Van Hightower received numerous honors and awards and established an impressive vita of community involvement, publications, speaking engagements, and teaching appointments. Her refusal to be intimidated by the "old boy" political network, which she viewed as a fundamental obstacle to equality and justice, enabled her to implement significant changes for the citizens of Houston.
The Greater Houston Women's Foundation (GHWF) was established in 1990 by a group of Houston women who were concerned that only four to five percent of nationwide charitable donations were allocated to help women and girls. Consequently, the Greater Houston Women's Foundation was created to focus specifically on the needs of women and girls in Houston, and the mission of the Greater Houston Women's Foundation is to provide funding for projects and programs that benefit women and girls. Through grants, the Foundation gives back to the community seventy-five percent of the money donated.
Each year, the Greater Houston Women's Foundation awards grants to agencies and programs that are devoted to women and girls. The Grants Committee reviews proposals and makes its recommendations to the Board of Trustees, who then finalize the selection. The Foundation typically awards grants to seven to twelve agencies per year, at its annual Grants luncheon. The Foundation strives to award grants to a diversity of programs. Recent recipients include the Chinese Community Center, the Women's Home and the Women's Resource and Crisis Center in Galveston, Project Row Houses, Chinquapin School, ESCAPE Family Resource Center, the Houston READ Commission, and the San Jacinto Girl Scouts.
Education is another important component of the Greater Houston Women's Foundation The Foundation sponsors a number of educational seminars and conferences, many of which feature prominent Houston women who address issues such as career enhancement and the importance of self-confidence and self-esteem for women and girls. The main focus of the Foundation's educational efforts, is however, financial planning and money management.
The Greater Houston Women's Foundation and several institutions of higher learning in the Houston area, including the University of Houston, Texas Southern University, and Houston Community College, have worked together on research projects which examine current issues relevant to women. These studies have focused on topics such as the "glass ceiling" in the workplace, childcare and benefits, and girls and gangs. Copies of the completed research projects can be found in the Houston Public Library and its branches, and they are also distributed to elected officials. Based upon the findings of the research project, each year the Greater Houston Women's Foundation presents its Excellence awards to local businesses in recognition of their progressive policies. Recent recipients of the Excellence awards include Shell Oil Company, Mir Fox and Rodriquez, PanEnergy Corporation, and Browning-Ferris Industries.
Although no items relating to it are included in the collection, in 1992 the Greater Houston Women's Foundation, in conjunction with PBS station KUHT, developed and produced a television series entitled "Focus on Success." The Greater Houston Women's Foundation also participates in programs such as the national "Take Our Daughters to Work Day." Many prominent women have been involved in some manner with the Greater Houston Women's Foundation, including Oprah Winfrey, Nellie Connally, Elizabeth Rockwell, former Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin, former United States Ambassador to Austria Swanee Hunt, and local celebrities Jan Carson and Shara Fryer.
The idea for a Hispanic women's leadership group originated in 1987, when a small group of Hispanic women in Houston planned a women's conference. The Hispanic Women's Leadership Conference Committee's March conference, held in conjunction with the YWCA, was a success. In June 1988, Hispanic Women in Leadership was formed as a separate, nonprofit, tax exempt organization. The organization has grown from the approximately twenty original members to over two hundred, the majority of whom are professional Hispanic women. Members include doctors, lawyers, accountants, educators, media representatives and other professionals who provide positive role models to women and girls.
Hispanic Women in Leadership's main goal is to promote leadership skills among Hispanic women in Houston. In conjunction with this goal, the organization promotes education of Hispanic women and girls, identifies successful role models, develops a network of professional women, and encourages Hispanic women to embrace and celebrate their cultural heritage.
Hispanic Women in Leadership's major activity is their annual conference, held each spring in Houston. These conferences, which have grown over the years, have themes relevant to Hispanic women. They feature local and national educators and professional women and men who present workshops on issues such as the glass ceiling in the workplace and child care. The conferences raise money for scholarships to deserving young Hispanic women. In addition to the annual conference, Hispanic Women in Leadership also sponsors other fundraisers, such as fashion shows and garage sales.
The River Oaks Blossom Club was organized in 1939 by a group of River Oaks women who felt the area needed a third garden club. The Club promotes gardening as both an enjoyable social activity and one that benefits the community. The Club meets monthly, October through May, at member's houses to plan activities and conduct Club business. Guest speakers at the monthly meetings have included experts on local and state horticulture. The Club also participates in field trips and provides tours through members' gardens. The Blossom Club's main activity each year is the annual flower show in May at the home of a member. Each show has a particular theme, such as First Ladies or International. In addition to the meetings and flower show, the Blossom Club also promotes civic responsibility. Members have donated their time and gardening talents to local hospitals and nursing homes by preparing decorated Christmas trees, cookie jars, and stamped cards. Although not included in the collection, the Blossom Club has received certificates for its cooperation during World War II with the USO, the Red Cross, the Bond Drive, and the Victory Vegetable Gardens.
Throughout 1980, the various Houston area chapters of the American Business Women's Association gathered at quarterly "Community Meetings" in order to "exercise greater impact" through coordinated organization. In March 1981 these meetings opened to other Houston area women's groups. The overwhelming response of women throughout the city suggested a need to create an "umbrella" organization. From this effort sprang the Federation of Houston Professional Women (FHPW), established in September 1981, and chartered by the state of Texas in 1982. The FHPW would "help professional women serve as a resource to each other and to the community by providing educational, networking, and support group activities to its members, focus on empowering individuals to achieve their goals by addressing general concerns of women in civic, community, personal, and professional pursuits, and unite individuals of our member organizations to promote a place of influence and power." Together, the various groups involved in the Federation would attempt to educate women about the political process to foster activism that would create a more favorable environment for business women in Houston. (General FHPW information is found in Box 1, Folder 7).
As of 1994, the FHPW Foundation, Advisory Board, Executive Board, Board of Directors, several committees, and the voting delegates of the member organizations composed this "organization of organizations." Various prominent personalities from the Houston area sat on the Advisory Board. The Board of Directors included the Executive Board and the Directors of the various committees; the number and names of the committees have varied over the years. Until 1993, the FHPW published its news in the Federation Exchange. After 1993, the newsletter became known as the Federation Focus. A bulk mailing, the Delegate Digest, informed delegates of upcoming activities. Delegates kept their organizations informed about FHPW activities, and had voting privileges in Federation decisions.
Initially, the Federation planned four major activities: quarterly general meetings, a spring event, an annual awards banquet, and various workshops throughout the year. As the organization grew, the executive body and number of meetings multiplied. The FHPW continued to hold quarterly meetings open to all women involved in the Federation, as well as annual Delegate Updates to inform new voting delegates about their responsibilities and the FHPW's activities. The Executive Board and Board of Directors met monthly, as did several committees. The Awards Banquets in the autumn of each year continue to honor prominent and active women in Houston's business community. The Federation continues its educational outreach not only through workshops, but also through community service and the sponsorship of conferences promoting women in business and politics.
The FHPW's Educational Foundation was planned in 1993 with a mission to award scholarships and gifts to aid and advance the education and knowledge of women in the community. FHPWEF received tax-exempt status 501(c)3 in 1994 and as a charitable foundation is able to receive funds from contributions by individuals or member organizations, gifts, and special fundraisers. The Educational Foundation's Governing Board includes the FHPW's current president and president-elect. Five additional members are nominated by a committee consisting of the Educational Foundation's current president and the FHPW's current president and immediate past president. The Educational Foundation's voting body is the Governing Board and the FHPW Board of Directors.
The surge of woman-centered activity that came in the wake of the 1977 National Women’s Conference inspired women in Houston’s artistic community to bind together and form their own chapter of the Women’s Caucus for Art. The National Women’s Caucus for Art had grown out of a discussion on gender at an art conference in San Francisco, California in 1972. The national organization’s stated purpose was “to win parity in the valuation of works by women; to create new opportunities for women to document, produce and exhibit works, and to assemble for the exchange of ideas, experience and constructive criticism.” On January 10, 1978, the Houston Women’s Caucus for Art expanded that mission to Houston and held its first organizational meeting. In 1980, the state of Texas recognized the group as a non-profit organization.
Meetings were held monthly, and membership quickly expanded. Members elected a board of directors, or executive board. The positions in this board have varied over the years, but consisted of a president, program coordinator, secretary, treasurer, exhibition coordinator, publicity coordinator, membership coordinator, newsletter editor, and special events coordinator in 1997. The board makes all of the major decisions for the organization; however, officers welcome input from a community advisory board and all members.
While the Caucus first met in the household of one of its members, the organization soon realized the need for a larger meeting space. Preferably, this space should have a gallery in which members could hold exhibitions. To obtain this, the Caucus joined other Montrose area organizations in the Neartown Association. This neighborhood community group helped to preserve and restore an old Montrose fire station at 1413 Westheimer, which became the meeting and exhibition hall for all groups. By 1983, the Caucus proved to be the most frequent user of the facility, and signed a long-term lease. In 1998, Harris County purchased the Firehouse and the Caucus continued to sublet its space as a gallery for experimental, up and coming, and member artists until 1999. During 1999, the county decided to use the entire building as office space, and so the Caucus relocated to 3015 Richmond, Suite 270, in the Upper Kirby Building. The Caucus has an office and a large meeting room available, but presently does not have a space to use as a gallery.
The Caucus has remained true to its purposes in over three decades of its existence. The group sponsors local artists through individual, group, and member shows. The organization has also helped to bring many artists of national renown and controversy to Houston, such as Matuschka, Judy Chicago, and Karen Finley. Not only has the Caucus shown a commitment to artistic expression, but it has also shown a commitment to feminist activism. Exhibitions have included artwork by survivors of domestic violence and art promoting awareness of breast cancer. Furthermore, the very existence of the HWCA has allowed many women an exhibition space that would otherwise be denied to them due to gender and racial discrimination in the art world.
Source:
www.artwomenhouston.org
Note Author: Leigh Fought, June 1999
The Women in Visual and Literary Arts (WIVLA) attempts to combine the talent of visual artists and writers in order to stimulate the creative process and provide a forum for female artistic endeavors through shows and networking. The organization began in 1993, the brainchild of "a writer, an artist, an art consultant and a gallery owner." Within a year, membership flourished quickly. The organization holds monthly meetings that include a featured speaker, and also holds exhibits and readings where members may present their latest work. In the future, WIVLA hopes to provide "studios, writing suites, workshop space, gallery, gift shop and library" in order to facilitate the flowering of artistic activity among the women of Houston.
Brigid's Place, the women's center at Christ Church Cathedral, a place of prayer, meditation, research, and mutual support, is dedicated to the spiritual and personal development of women. Brigid's Place was established in 1996 by Christ Church Cathedral's Women's Assembly when the Assembly recognized that it needed to expand both its resources and its space. The Women's Assembly itself was formed in 1993 as a network for progressive women of Christ Church Cathedral.
Originally, the Assembly envisioned Brigid's Place as a separate project, but the Assembly and Brigid's Place soon became closely identified with one another. Brigid's Place assists women in finding mentors, in forming support networks through Small Groups, and in searching for answers to questions about female spirituality, gender roles, theology, and other issues facing religious women in the modern world. Brigid's Place participants join Small Groups, which focus on specific issues of particular importance to women at different stages in life
Brigid's Place is a 501 (c) (3) nonprofit organization with a board of directors; the Rotating Circle, composed of members from smaller communities who serve limited terms, is the advisory board of Brigid's Place. Brigid's Place also publishes an annual newsletter and brochures for their programs.
Josephine Harris Stewart was a prominent social worker and activist who is recognized as a pioneer in the field of social group work. She was born June 9, 1924 in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is of Hungarian Jewish descent. She received a bachelor of science degree in education in 1945 from the University of Cincinnati Teachers College. Following graduation, she enlisted in the Women's Army Corps and was assigned as an occupational counselor in Des Moines, Iowa, until her discharge in September 1946. She graduated in 1949 from the University of Pittsburgh with a master of social work degree, with a specialization in social group work. In 1960 she earned an advanced curriculum certificate in community organization from the University of Pennsylvania, and completed all the requirements, except for the dissertation, for a doctoral degree in social work.
Stewart's early career encompassed a number of jobs in the social work field, including teaching and social work practice at public and private social welfare agencies and hospitals. She was a social group worker at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, where she was the first social group worker in Kansas; the LaRue D. Carter Memorial Hospital in Indianapolis, Indiana, where she served as psychiatric social work supervisor; and the Rollman Institute of Psychiatry in Cincinnati, Ohio, where she was a psychiatric social work educational supervisor. She was also a family counselor at Jewish Family Service of Philadelphia. Her teaching positions include serving as field work instructor and lecturer in social group work at Indiana University and lecturer in social welfare and field work consultant at the University of California, Berkeley. From 1964 to 1975, Stewart was an assistant professor and lecturer at West Virginia University, where she taught a number of social work courses. In 1975 she moved to Houston, where she was the first social worker hired at Methodist Hospital. She retired from Methodist shortly before her death from lung cancer on September 26, 1990.
Stewart was an activist for gay/lesbian and women's issues, particularly during her years in Houston. She was a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers and served the organization as national chairman on gay/lesbian issues during the 1980s. Stewart was also a co-founder of the Houston Area Women's Center.
The Women's Fund for Health Education and Resiliency was founded in February 1979 by Jacqueline and Wayne Goettsche with a seed endowment as the Women's Fund for Health Education and Research (HER). Concerned that women's health issues lacked appropriate funding and that research findings using only male subjects was applied indiscriminately to women, the Goettsches established the Women's Fund to support research on women's health issues and to disseminate women's health information through educational programs. The Goettsches organized a fundraising initiation barbeque in May 1979 that drew nearly 100 attendees from Houston's social and medical elite. With this event, the Women's Fund commemorated the signing of the Bylaws and officially launched the new organization.
As a non-profit foundation, the Women's Fund for HER has been dedicated to understanding, improving, and promoting women's health by providing support for research and educational programs. Fundraising through membership solicitation, special events, and corporate support is a primary goal of the Women's Fund. In 1979, the Women's Fund began with about 200 charter members; by 2001 membership had increased to 605, 203 of which are lifetime members. Membership categories include individual annual members, lifetime members, medical members, and corporate members.
The Women's Fund for HER hosts a variety of events each year; central among them is the Annual Benefit Luncheon held each fall. In 1983 the Women's Fund held its First Annual Benefit Luncheon with Erma Bombeck as the guest speaker. Featured speakers have included David Eisenhower, John Bradshaw, Suzanne Somers, and Liz Carpenter. Since 1991, the Women's Fund has presented the John P. McGovern Fall Seminar, which offers specialized information on topics such as allergies, chemical dependency, depression, and over-the-counter medicines. An Annual Spring Seminar provides another venue for similar kinds of information. The Program Committee organizes smaller and more frequent lecture/seminars throughout the year, often in collaboration with volunteers representing local medical institutions, and so many of the seminars are free. Membership coffees, held three to four times a year in a member's home, feature presentations on women's health concerns such as heart disease or alcoholism. Both Michael DeBakey and Ann Richards have spoken to attendees at these membership coffees.
As part of their educational outreach, the Women's Fund publishes A Primer on Women's Health, which is circulated to groups, agencies, and corporations without charge. To reach a wider audience, the Women's Fund translated the Primer into Spanish. Local philanthropic foundations and individuals support publication of the Primer. Another publication, Health Notes, helps women track their medical histories and maintain records of tests and diagnoses.
In addition to special events and the Primer, the Women's Fund has supported basic and clinical research related to women's health concerns. Between 1980 and 1992 the Women's Fund awarded 73 grants for medical research and services geared toward women's needs.
For more information, see: https://thewomensfund.org/
Church Women United is a national ecumenical organization dedicated to bringing together religious women in order to celebrate and expand their faith, to promote peace and prayer, and to join together as a community to encourage spirituality and advocacy. Church Women United is divided into four levels: national, regional, state, and local. At the national level, the United Council of Church Women was formed in December 1941, when delegates from three inter-denominational women's groups approved a constitution and established an office in New York City. This Council represented women from seventy Protestant denominations. In 1950, the Council became one of twelve interdenominational agencies that comprised the National Council of Churches of Christ in the United States. In 1966, the organization's name was changed to Church Women United in order to encourage the participation of non-Protestant women, such as Roman and Orthodox Catholics.
In 1911, a group of Houston women of different denominations formed the Houston City Federation of Missionary Society; by 1946 the organization was known as the Houston Council of Church Women. The name was changed to Church Women United of Houston in 1966, and to Church Women United in Houston in 1968. At the local level, groups are organized into committees that administer programs and projects; in Houston, the women hold meetings at the many Houston area churches that are members of CWU. Church Women United in Houston participates in worship services at area churches and works with other Houston organizations to promote awareness of a number of issues, including the elderly, women and children, and the environment. Members of the Houston group also participate in the three annual Church Women United celebrations: World Day of Prayer, May Fellowship Day, and World Community Day.
Sources:
Church Women United, Information Handbook and Directory, September 1999 through August 2000, p. 11, located in Box 1, Folder 3.
The Women's Studies Program at the University of Houston is an interdisciplinary academic field that analyzes and investigates women's roles, needs, history, and contributions to humankind. Women's Studies at UH was established in the summer of 1991. The Program offers an interdisciplinary undergraduate minor and an interdisciplinary graduate certificate -- both consist of courses drawn from the humanities, fine arts, law, and social and health sciences. The mission of the Friends of Women's Studies is to support the University of Houston Women's Studies Program through campus and community activities, as well as financial and volunteer efforts. The central focus of the Friends is the Women's Archive and Research Collections (WARC), a unique collection of documents from active and historical Houston area women's organizations, individuals associated with these organizations and local women's oral histories.
WARC, housed at the University of Houston Libraries' Special Collections Department, opened in October 1996. The WARC collecting area focuses on the roles of women and women's organizations that have made some impact on the lives of Houston area women. As it grows, WARC is expanding to statewide scope.
Collections in WARC include those focused on cultural development and social action, philanthropic, civic and professional associations, women's health issues, violence against women, minority women's groups, and a professional athletic franchise. WARC also includes the papers of several prominent Houston women. The collections document the ways that women have united to achieve their goals, the range of their concerns, and the impact they have had on the world around them. WARC also creates and preserves Texas women's oral histories through the Living Archives series, which features interviews with notable Houston women. The research collections support significant scholarly work on women's issues by students, faculty, and visiting professors and promotes awareness of women's contributions to culture through speakers, conferences, and other activities.
The Friends of Women's Studies provides financial assistance to graduate and undergraduate students and faculty and provides funds for graduate assistantships to continue processing and expanding collections donated to WARC. Scholarships are available to both undergraduates and graduates; UH faculty members may apply for doctoral fellowships and summer fellowships. An annual travel grant is awarded to a Women's Studies faculty member presenting research at conferences and a Student Essay prize for essays on a women's studies topic. Long range plans include a conference on Houston women's history and the endowment of a chair.
Note Author: Pavan Sirsi, 2003 (and edited by Kristen McAlear, 2011)
KUHT-TV debuted on May 25, 1953, as America's first educational television station. Since then it has served as a model for other educational television stations. Its main goal is to provide quality programming to students, faculty, and the entire community. KUHT predates the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) and the Public Broadcasting System (PBS). Its history includes award-winning local and national productions, including a national Emmy Award for excellence. KUHT is licensed to the University of Houston, and is located in the LeRoy and Lucile Melcher Center for Public Broadcasting located at 4343 Elgin, on the northeast corner of the main campus.
Wilmer Waldo was born in Houston in 1876 to J.P. and Mary Virginia Gentry Waldo. Educated in Civil Engineering at Princeton University, Waldo was instrumental in the planning and execution of myriad public and private infrastructure projects in the city of Houston and beyond. While perhaps most known for his role in planning the layout of the campus of Rice University, Waldo also contributed to railway construction projects in service of the Suderman-Dolson and Fred A. Jones Companies and completed numerous projects in the Houston community and across Southeast Texas as an individual contractor. In 1902, Waldo led the effort to move the now-famous Waldo Mansion from the original location at the corner of Rusk and Caroline to its present location on Westmoreland Avenue. Waldo resided in the mansion with his siblings until his death in 1962.
William David Allred was born in Austin, Texas on November 27, 1933 to Governor James V. Allred and Joe Betsy Miller. After receiving a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism and English from Texas Christian University in 1955, Allred enlisted in the United States Army. During his two year stint, Allred served as a Public Relations Officer at Forts Eustis and Story. He was discharged from active duty as a second lieutenant in 1957, remaining active in the Army Reserves for more than twenty years.
Following his military service, Allred received his Master of Arts in Journalism from Columbia University in 1961. Allred immediately began work as a reporter, working as a Washington DC correspondent for media outlets such as the Wichita Falls Times and Record-News, the Houston Post, and the Associated Press. During this period, Allred also served in public relations for numerous Congressional offices.
After returning to Wichita Falls, Texas, Allred was elected to represent District 13 in the Texas State House of Representatives in 1966. In his 14 years of service, Allred championed causes related to ethics reform and served on the House Appropriations Committee, the Health and Welfare Commission, the Committee on Business and Industry, the Committee on Social Services, and more. Allred's commitment to public service over self is often noted; Allred was known to live in his congressional office in order to save on rent costs and make ends meet. Allred remained active in other pursuits during his terms in office, managing the press for Dolph Briscoe's 1968 run for governor, practicing as a licensed minister, and becoming a certified attorney in 1978.
Following the conclusion of his legislative career, Allred followed up on his other pursuits, serving as an Assistant Attorney General under Jim Mattox, continuing work as a minister, and eventually serving as a professor of journalism at the University of Texas at Austin, Hampton University, and Radford University. Allred died on September 8, 1996 at the age of 62.
67th Texas State Legislature. House. Resolutions – Congratulatory and Honorary. H.C.R. No. 48. 1991. https://lrl.texas.gov/scanned/members/honorary/67/Allred_Dave_HCR48.pdf 75th Texas State Legislature. House. Resolutions – Memorial. H.R. No. 25. March 20, 1997. https://lrl.texas.gov/scanned/members/memorial/75/75_Allred_hr25.pdf "William David Allred." Texas State Cemetery. https://cemetery.tspb.texas.gov/pub/user_form.asp?pers_id=3236
The items were donated on behalf of the Scottish Brigade Alumnae Organization, and Nancy Grissom was the Vice Chair at the time of donation.
Materials were transferred to Special Collections following the University of Houston Libraries' Forgery Conference in 1989.
Additional copy and program transferred from the Professor David Ashley White Papers.
Materials were transferred to Special Collections in 2015.
Donated by the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley in February, 2016.
Donated by the University of Texas at Arlington in February 2016.
The items in this collection consist of Manned Spacecraft Center/Johnson Space Center memorabilia from Eggers' personal collection from his time working as a contractor for General Dynamics Corp. in the early 1960s.
The first series of archived material consists of materials related to Faget's time as an employee of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA). Series 2 through 8 cover materials related to Faget's time at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), broken down by major mission headings. Series 9 contains materials related to Faget's naval service during World War II and includes retirement materials from his naval retirement in 1981. Series 10 contains general biographical information about Faget and includes personal letters, autobiographies, oral histories, personal interviews, and obituaries. Series 11 through 14 contain presentations, handbooks, and miscellany not directly related to any specific NACA, NASA, or Space Industries projects covered in other series. Series 15 encompasses the many honors and awards Faget received in his lifetime. Series 16 contains technical reports written or co-authored by Faget. Series 17 covers Faget's time at Space Industries, and Series 18 concerns the Industrial Space Facility, the major project of Space Industries in the 1980s and early 1990s. Series 19 through 22 contain other media, such as photographs, slides, newspaper clippings, magnetic tape, and floppy discs. Materials from the floppy discs have been printed out and may be found in Box 47, Folder 2 at the end of the collection. Series 23 through 25 contain oversized items, such as scrapbooks, legal sized items, periodicals, 35 mm film, and glass slides.
Found with Film CL 72-602
See Film Series for Film CL 70-526
Found with Film CL 727
The City of Houston Collection consists of official correspondence and documents relating to the City of Houston around the turn of the century. Most of the items relate to physical improvements such as paving being made to the city by the City Engineers Office, and the documents date from 1881-1900. The collection comprises 1 manuscripts box with 19 individual items.
The collection is divided alphabetically according to the office of issue, and then filed chronologically. The Executive Department and Brashear & Dannenbaum, Attorneys at Law have been included in the Mayor's Office series, as they were issued by S.H. Brashear during his term as Mayor.
The bulk of this collection dates from the years 1943 through 1945. The collection mainly contains black and white photographs taken by Clell Thorpe, as well as some 4x5" negatives, one letter, one manuscript, and some miscellaneous items.
The material is arranged in five series: Naval School of Photography, Marine Bombing Squadron (VMB-613), Pacific Atoll, Tarawa, and Miscellaneous.
This series contains black and white photographs taken at the Naval School of Photography in Pensacola, FL. The series includes pictures of airplanes, the Naval Air Station in Pensacola, and Clell Thorpe himself.
One hundred forty-one black and white photographs document life for the Marine Bombing Squadron 613 (VMB-613), probably on Kwajalein Island. Subjects include various buildings used by the squadron, the men in various departments such as the Engineering Department and the Medical Department, and squadron sports teams. Also included are photographs of planes with their crews, and planes flying with a convoy near Eniwetok Atol.
Fifty-four small black and white photographs in this series depict Japanese soldiers surrendering to American Marines, and the daily life of island natives on an unidentified atoll in the Marshall Islands. While a number of these pictures have typed captions glued on the bottom of the print, the names of people given in the captions are mostly satirical. This series also includes photographs of dead bodies after a battle, and some negatives.
Twenty-four small black and white photographs in this series depict Japanese soldiers surrendering to American Marines, and the daily life of island natives on an unidentified atoll in the Marshall Islands. While a number of these pictures have typed captions glued on the bottom of the print, the names of people given in the captions are mostly satirical. This series also includes photographs of dead bodies after a battle, and some negatives.
This series includes miscellaneous photographs and other materials. The front sections of the Houston Chronicle and Houston Post with headlines about the bombing of Pearl Harbor are part of this series.
This is a collection of the records of the Nassau Bay Garden Club, located in Nassau Bay, Texas. Nassau Bay is situated across from the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.
Types of records include historical documents, meeting minutes, treasurer reports and ledgers, tax information, membership rosters, reports of various committees and Club presidents, correspondence, and project files, including those of the Yard of the Month competition and fundraisers. Also included are the Club newsletters Bloomin' Notes and Blossoming Notes , as well as scrapbooks dating back to 1971 and culminating with the year 1999. The scrapbooks contain fliers, clippings, artwork, and photos documenting the activities of the Garden Club
Note: This scrapbook sustained water and mold damage before coming to the archives. The original has been scanned and removed from the collection. A copy has been placed here and is also available as a .pdf file
The papers of Dr. Irvin Borish contain manuscripts, patents, awards and notices, conference proceedings, print items, correspondence, photographs, as well as audio and video recordings. Items in the collection date from 1937 to 1996 with most of the material dating from the late 1970s and 1980s. The majority of the material in the collection contains articles and other manuscript items written by Borish. However, the collection also contains numerous photographs, most of which are not labeled. Patent information and letters from prominent optometrists and ophthalmologists regarding Clinical Refraction might also be of interest to the researcher.
The University of Houston College of Optometry displays several of Dr. Borish's awards, honorary degrees, certificates, and other memorabilia (including a painting by him) in the Irvin M. Borish Reading Room located in the Optometry Library.
Dr. Borish's papers are arranged into twelve series: Résumé, Manuscripts, Patents, Awards and Notices, Conferences, Optometric Delegations, Print Items, Correspondence, Scrapbooks, Photographs, Audio Recordings, Video Recordings, and Miscellaneous. Original arrangement has been adhered to where possible. Subject file titles within the various series reflect titles created by Dr. Borish. Material arrangement, other than series arrangement, follows a chronological scheme whenever possible with the exception of the Manuscripts series. Subject files within the Manuscripts series are arranged alphabetically, with items in each subject file chronologically ordered.
There is one folder in this series, which contains Dr. Borish's 1996 résumé along with a letter to Suzanne Ferimer, Optometry Librarian at the University of Houston College of Optometry's Library.
This series is the largest in the collection with eighty-seven folders. The materials date from 1939 to 1995. Items within this series vary considerably in content, however, most are articles, chapters, lectures, or notes. Subject files are arranged alphabetically and retain titles used by Dr. Borish.
There are five folders in this series which contain material from 1960 to 1989. Items in this series include copies of original patent registration forms (both illustrations and written descriptions). A series of black and white photographs located in the Photographs series (Box 9, Folders 14-21), although unidentified, likely relate to the items patented.
There are twenty-one folders in this series with items dating from 1944 to 1996. Subject files include assorted Awards and Notices, Certificates, Educational and Licence Certificates, and Honorary Degrees. The Irvin M. Borish Reading Room in the University of Houston's Optometry Library also displays several of Dr. Borish's awards and achievements.
The five folders in this series contain items dating from 1966 to 1992. Programs from various conferences are included in this series.
The nine folders in this series hold material from two international optometric delegations headed by Dr. Borish. The two subject files, India and China, represent items associated from these delegations from 1985 through 1988.
There are twelve folders in this series with material dating from 1937 to 1996. Items in this series contain various print items, newspaper clippings, and different optometric journals. The majority of articles were either authored by Dr. Borish or written about him.
The thirty-three folders in this series contain correspondence dating from 1946 to 1994. Subject files include letters received concerning Clinical Refraction, general correspondence, as well as more personal correspondence (retirement and sympathy cards regarding Dr. Borish's heart attack). The Letters of Recommendation subject file comprises of the largest subject file in the series.
There are five folders in this series. Materials, dating from 1954 to 1989, focus on three areas: Presentation for Distinguished Professorship at Indiana University, the University of Houston's Borish Chair in Optometry, and a photo album containing pictures from an optometric conference in Japan. The scrapbooks remain intact to preserve their original organization while items placed in them loosely have been removed and labeled accordingly.
There are fifty-three photographs in this series, with items dating from 1951 to 1996. The majority of the photos are neither identified nor dated.
This series contains four cassette tapes made between 1974 and 1993.
This series contains eight VHS tapes recorded between August 1984 and January 1990. Three of the tapes contain interview footage of noted optometrists, including Dr. Borish, produced by the American Optometric Association (AOA).
There are two folders in this series. The items are not dated and consist mostly of sketches of Dr. Borish drawn by students.
These are records which were generated or collected by librarians Frances Weeks and Gay Carter during their years at Neumann Library. Included are records relating to the daily processes of running the library, library meeting minutes, policies, memos, fiscal files, library and university events, library brochures and publications, staff information, and general subject files. Both Gay and Frances also served on numerous UHCL Shared Governance Committees and those files are contained herein.
The last three folders of box twelve are closed due to privacy issues.
(These files are closed due to privacy issues)
There are 66 items in the collection, dating from 1926-1964. Included is a typed manuscript history of the Port of Houston and Buffalo Bayou, as well as a typed version of the ordinance establishing the Port of Houston, in 1841.
In addition are 40 photographic prints. The photographs include shots of an exhibit highlighting the history of the Port of Houston, as well as photographs from the fiftieth anniversary of the Port of Houston, taken on November 10, 1964. The anniversary photographs were taken at the Shamrock Hilton and on Wharf Number 25 at the Ship Channel. People in these photographs have not been identified.
Two items were removed from the collection for cataloging. One of the items is a pamphlet, “Buffalo Bayou and the Houston Ship Channel, 1820-1926.” The other item is a promotional broadside, showing the layout of the city of Houston and railroads in the area.
The collection arrived at the Archives in good order and the original order has been maintained whenever possible. The collection consists of thirty-five folders dating from 1958-1994. Materials in the collection include brochures, evaluation results, a few photographs, correspondence, and program booklets that describe the course activities. The only materials kept from the earliest years were participant rosters and programs of activities. Three years (1967-1969) were missing completely. The materials are in folders by year and arranged chronologically. The collection also included several publications relating to the oil industry, which have been filed at the end of the collection.
An event card and issues of comic books related to the Comiculture event hosted by the University of Houston-Clear Lake.
This collection is composed entirely of U. S. Navy recruiting literature from 1941-1949. Included are booklets, pamphlets, broadsides, posters, promotional materials and some miscellaneous response cards. Materials have been sorted by type of material. Materials for recruiting WAVES (the women's counterpart to the U. S. Navy) have been separated from materials recruiting men.
The 61 booklets (items with several pages), and 129 pamphlets (items made from one or two folded sheets) are arranged alphabetically by title. The miscellaneous items (108 items), which include promotional materials and response cards, are arranged alphabetically by folder heading.
Posters and other broadsheets (190 items, total) have been sorted so that all duplicate materials are together. These materials are arranged at the container level. One box of the posters includes items which were drymounted to acid-free board. These items have been kept together, as have posters and broadsheets which are geared toward recruiting WAVES.
For additional materials held in Special Collections on World War II and the U. S. Navy, see the Cruiser Houston Collection and the William A. Bernrieder Collection.
The collection contains 15 boxes of materials pertaining to the development of the Bay Area Houston Economic Partnership (BAHEP), formerly known as the Clear Lake Area Economic Development Foundation (CLAEDF), from its beginning in 1976 to 2009. CLAEDF and BAHEP operated as promotional marketing and development agencies for businesses in the Bay Area and its communities. The collection includes organizational histories, minutes, newspaper articles, press releases, promotional brochures, events, awards, photographs and magazines. It should be noted that the Executive Committee minutes and handouts from 1991-1996 were donated by Joe D. Barlow from his personal papers.
[These meeting files were removed from binders and have been kept in their original chronological order, 1976-2008.]
The collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection includes information about the history of the African American Studies Program, the First Annual Wilson Whitley Golf Tournament, fellowship programs, and study abroad programs. Materials in the collection include annual reports, brochures, catalogs, development plans, grant proposals, and reports to the community. This collection is divided into four series: Administrative Records, Wilson Whitley Memorial Celebrity Golf Tournament, Scholarships, Fellowships and Awards; and Study Abroad Programs. The collection covers the years from 1990 to 2001 with one item, a Tribute to Lynn Eusan, from 1971.
Arranged alphabetically, this series contains forty-six folders dating from 1990 to 2001. Overall, the original folder order has been maintained. This series contains a wide range of materials relating to the administration of the African American Studies program. Materials include annual reports, development plans, reports to the community, grant proposals, newsletters, and publications. This series also contains grievance procedures and policy guidelines for the program.
This series contains a wide range of materials relating to the First Annual Wilson Whitley Golf Tournament. Materials in this series consist of correspondence, press releases, mailing lists, and meeting minutes related to the event. The series contains twenty-four folders dating from 1992-1994 and arranged alphabetically.
The tournament was named after Wilson Whitley the late University of Houston All-American football player. In 1976, Whitley was voted the Best Defensive Lineman in college football. He later played professionally with the Cincinnati Bengals for many seasons. After retirement from the National Football League, Whitley worked as an executive for Holiday Inn Worldwide. At the time of his death, he was working on a celebrity golf tournament to benefit the Scholarship Fund of the African American Studies Program. In its first year, the tournament generated over $40,000 in gross revenues. Some of the celebrity players included, Robert Newhouse, Alois Blackwell, Butch Woolfolf, Curtis Duncan, Ross Browner, Isaac Curtis, Francis Page, Andre Ware, Carl Lewis, and Otis Birdsong.
This series contains seven folders related to various scholarships, fellowships, and awards or tributes to prominent members of the African American community. Materials include applications, scholarship requirements, letters of congratulations to award winners, and a small amount of correspondence. Most of the materials date from the 1995-1996 academic school year. Transcripts have been removed and destroyed, following the Texas Open Records Act. Some of the different awards include: the Sheeler Scholarship Fund, the Academic Excellence Scholarship, the African American Studies Graduate Fellowship Program, the African American Studies Program, Debbie Haley Community Service Scholarship, and the John Ruben Sheeler Memorial Scholarship Awards.
This series consists of fifteen folders, which contain informational materials relating to different study abroad programs including locations in Ghana, South Africa, Tunisia, England, Spain, Zimbabwe, France, India, Israel, and Jamaica. Most of the materials in these folders date between 1996-1999 and are arranged alphabetically.
The Battin Collection contains correspondence, articles, lecture notes, scrapbooks, photographs, scripts, and films. The materials date from 1936 to 1976, and comprise eleven manuscript boxes, one newspaper box and six films, five in reel cases. Because so many articles are one paragraph or less, they were placed with others in Mylar sheet protectors for preservation.
The collection is divided into nine series based on how it was received from the donors. The series are: Correspondence, Articles, Thesis, Photographs, Action for Youth, Lecture Materials, Scripts, Miscellaneous, and Films.
This series contains Dr. Battin's correspondence and dates from 1936 to 1976. It has been organized into three sub-series: general correspondence, Florida correspondence, and retirement correspondence. Each of these sub-series is arranged chronologically. The general sub-series is four folders and is dated from 1936 to 1976. It includes letters and cards from friends, movie celebrities, and former students. The Florida sub-series is one folder of materials dated from 1952 to 1954. The retirement correspondence is one folder gathered for Battin's retirement ceremony. There are telegrams, photographs and letters of regret from individuals unable to attend. These are dated 1975 to 1976.
The articles are divided into nine folders: articles about the Battins; a galley proof for his chapter of Television Broadcasting; one 'blue' page proof for his chapter of Television Broadcasting; two typed copies of Handbook of Television Writing; articles by Dr. Battin; articles about television, education, and miscellaneously related topics; and a scrapbook. These clippings were cut from various publications, are often undated and as many as possible were placed between one Mylar sheet. The scrapbook consists of newspaper articles having to do with the reaction of the educational system and television industry to his thesis and the survey used in it. Included in the scrapbook are letters and photographs relating to the newspaper articles. Due to the adhesive used to prepare the scrapbook, it was decided to retain the "scrapbook" format, but to remove the covers.
This series is two boxes containing two incomplete copies of Dr. Battin's thesis, The Use of the Diary and Survey Method Involving the Questionnaire Interview Technique. These copies are on onionskin paper, are unbound, and are difficult to use. Special Collections does have a complete bound copy which has been cataloged [HQ 784.T4.B38 1951].
The photographs consist of one manuscript box of undated photographs of KUHT, KHTV, and other related photographs. There is one folder of motion picture stills from "The Tomboy and the Champ"; part of which was filmed in Houston. There are also photographs in the scrapbook, which have been left there because of the heavy adhesive used to mount them.
The "Action for Youth" Project series contains information from the inception through the production of a series of films and videos having to do with juvenile delinquency. These materials are in chronological order. The project was completed in 1963. The final folders contain announcers' notes from the AFL (American Football League) Oilers versus Dolphins Game, which was played and televised from Rice Stadium in 1966. Included are a series of cue cards used during the game.
Dr. Battin's lecture materials include the "Television Production Handbook", his handwritten notebook and notes, articles related to television, two undated article on television directing and four templates. There is no particular order, as the material is interchangeable and overlaps among itself.
The four boxes of stage, screen and television scripts are in alphabetical order and range in date from 1956 to 1970. The scripts in the collection cannot be copied.
There is one box of miscellaneous items and ephemera. Three films and two videos complete the collection. Advance notice is required in order to view films or videos.
The collection consists primarily of papers authored or co-authored by Eggleston and reports, notes, and memorandum documenting NACA and NASA projects for which Eggleston was responsible or participated, primarily the Space Environment Division. Of particular interest are the handwritten notes on the Final Apollo 11 Flight Plan and Eggleston's notes and comments collected about post-Apollo planning from various project managers and NASA Administrator George Low. Also, the donation includes a copy of his MIT Alfred P. Sloan School of Management M.S. Thesis about Executive Selection & Development at NASA.
This collection contains the records of the Houston Saengerbund from the years 1874 to 1985. The minutes, financial notes, correspondence, and other documents for each year or several years are collected together in a bound notebook or loose-leaf binder, and the notebooks and binders are arranged chronologically. Some of the notebooks contain programs, newspaper clippings, and similar items. The earliest records are written in German, the later ones in English.
Box 9 contains some miscellaneous records and six songbooks.
Materials document the Timber Cove Recreation Association including annual reports, minutes, budgets, membership, and items related to pool construction and maintenance. Records were originally filed in chronological order by calendar year.
This collection contains signed letters and manuscripts written by Aldous Huxley between 1916 and 1963. The bulk of the letters were sent to Huxley's friend Robert Nichols, an English poet and dramatist, between 1916 and 1935. The manuscripts included are for the novel Antic Hay, the essay “America and the Future,” the book Arabia Infelix and Other Poems, and the poem “Fifth Philosopher's Song, From Leda.” The manuscripts for “America and the Future” and Arabia Influx show Huxley's corrections to his work.
The collection is arranged in two boxes, one of manuscripts and one of correspondence. The items are arranged chronologically within each box.
Much of Aldous Huxley's personal collection of manuscripts, diaries, and papers were destroyed when his Los Angeles home burned in 1960, enhancing the significance of this collection. Special Collections also houses a large number of Huxley's books, including many first editions and autographed copies.
This collection consists of twenty-nine boxes of records relating to all aspects of the College of Arts and Sciences. Materials date from 1937 to 1973, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1963 to 1973. While the exact origin of these records is not known, it is assumed that these materials were collected and maintained by the administration of the College of Arts and Sciences. Most of the records bear the names R. Balfour Daniels or Alfred R. Neumann, both of whom held the position of Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Materials in the collection include correspondence, reports, forms, reading files, minutes, and a large variety of other reference and background items relating to the College of Arts and Sciences and its various departments and divisions. The folders appear originally to have been filed alphabetically, and this original order has been maintained or restored when necessary. Within files, items are arranged chronologically, with a few exceptions where an alphabetical arrangement is more appropriate.
This collection reflects almost all the events occurring on the University of Houston campus during this period. Not only are most of the College of Arts and Sciences divisions and departments represented within the collection, but also many programs that had bearing on the activities of the college are represented. University wide committees are strongly represented, numerous national associations and organizations are included, and a variety of local and state issues have materials within the collection. Additionally, the construction of buildings related to the college, including Agnes Arnold Hall, Science and Research I, and the Fine Arts Center, are covered thoroughly.
To gain a complete picture of the campus during this time, the researcher may want to examine other collections with related material, including the President's Office Records and the Business Manager Office Records. The Houstonian, the Daily Cougar, the Board of Regents Minutes and the Historical Photographs Collection may also be of interest.
When this program began at Livingston Chancellor Elementary School in 2008, Dr. Ron Pastrana donated various examples of student artwork and essay letters for the UHCL Archives. These items were housed in the UHCL Archives Vertical File under the term Scientist in Residence Program (Rhinebeck, NY) by the year. Dr. Pastrana annually contributed student research essays, images, artwork, thank you letters, and program overview. These items were formally processed out of the Vertical File and into the Scientist in Residence Program Records after the 2011 donation and also includes addenda up to 2013.
The Col. James Morgan Papers Collection consists of personal, business, and military correspondence, as well as various indenture and tenant documents, military orders, receipts, and folk remedies. When available, hand written transcriptions are filed behind the original documents. Manuscripts date from 1836 to 1859, with the bulk of the collection dating from the 1830s. The collection comprises 1 manuscript box with 43 individual items.
The collection is divided into two series: correspondence and other materials. The correspondence series is alphabetized by the last name of the sender. If one correspondent is represented by more than one letter, that section is then additionally alphabetized by the name of the recipient. If the writer has sent more than one letter to the same person, they are filed chronologically. The other, non-correspondence series is alphabetized by main entry.
(outside letter sheet only)
(captured Mexican officers)
(outside letter sheet only, in the hand of Sam Houston)
The UH Half Century Records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of documents relating to the various events of the celebration and the committee overseeing the events. Materials include agendas, correspondence, minutes, brochures, forms, calendars, commemorative newspaper articles, and press clippings. The collection dates almost entirely from 1976-1977, with a few items from as late as 1981. The materials are organized into six series: Planning and Preparation; Half Century Events; Media; Personnel; Commemorative Materials; and Afterwards.
This series contains forty folders dating from 1976 to 1978. Whenever possible the original order has been maintained, although some changes have been made to facilitate access. This series has been organized into four sub-series: General Planning, Half Century Brochure, Half Century Forms, and Half Century Logo Use. The folders contain minutes, brochures, mailing lists, meeting notes, programs and invitations, and drafts of various brochures.
This sub-series consists of twelve folders arranged alphabetically. The Planning Committee folders are arranged first by date, then alphabetically. Materials include meeting notes, planning strategies, campaign objectives, and other similar materials needed to launch the celebration. Dr. Patricia Teed served as Director of the Half-Century Program.
This sub-series consists of six folders relating to the creation of a special Half-Century brochure. Folders are arranged in the order in which they were received with items for the creation of the brochure followed by folders related to the mailing of the brochure, and finally the brochure itself. Materials include printing quotations, working drafts of brochure text, mailing lists of individuals, and copies of the final brochure.
There are thirteen folders in this sub-series, arranged alphabetically. Most of the forms in this series are single page documents probably used to gather information on individuals and colleges for use in press releases or newspapers articles covering the yearlong celebration. Other forms are simple departmental forms used for various purposes like tracking long distance telephone calls, weekly part-time staff reports, and forms used to track different celebration events.
This sub-series contains nine folders, arranged alphabetically. The folders contain examples of different brochures that used the Half-Century Logo, announcements of guest speakers, press clippings pertaining to the new logo, and various examples of the logo itself.
This series is the largest with sixty-six folders dating from 1976 to 1978 and is arranged chronologically by event. Calendars for the year and general correspondence relating to Half Century events precede materials associated with specific events. Whenever possible the original order has been maintained. Folders contain materials relating to the many different events that took place before and during the yearlong celebration. Materials include correspondence, programs, invitations, fliers, and newspaper articles and they cover all events including the Half-Century Convocation and guest speakers like Buckminster Fuller and Richard Leaky.
This series contains sixteen folders dating from 1976 to 1981 and is organized into two sub-series: Half-Century Press/Publicity and Community Services Brochure. The folders contain various brochures, general press coverage, University of Houston press releases and notes used in planning some of the events. Some of the brochures in this series were probably used as examples for the design of the Official University Half-Century brochure.
This sub-series contains five folders, arranged chronologically. The folders contain general information relating to members of the press that the university wanted to contact regarding the celebration. The materials also include various press clippings covering the celebration.
This sub-series consists of eleven folders that contain materials relating to the Community Services Brochure produced by the university during the Half-Century celebration. The purpose of the brochure was to give an overview of the various areas of interaction between the University of Houston and the community. The materials consist of correspondence relating to the brochure, working drafts, notes and other information used in the brochure's publication.
This series consists of three folders of correspondence between various people, both university employees and those outside the university consisting of notes in the planning of events, the design of the Half-Century Brochure, and other related materials.
This series consists of six folders of material relating to different commemorative items created to honor the half-century. Included are newspaper advertisements for the commemorative Dr. Pepper Bottle, a deck of commemorative playing cards, newspaper articles about the posters used to symbolize the four topics of the celebration, and interoffice materials relating to the aerial photograph of the campus used during the event.
This series consists of three folders. These materials include the Half Century Final Report from the Deputy Coordinator, Division of External Relations, Patricia Teed, to Chancellor Barry Munitz outlining the many challenges experienced by the Half Century Committee during their eighteen months in existence. This series also contains correspondence and press coverage of the forty-foot long multi-panel display exhibited in prominent locations throughout Houston during the celebration and a blueprint of the Half-Century Monolith.
Logbooks covering four decades reporting the activities of the Crew Systems Division at the Lane-Wells Building (MSC Site 4)
The M.L. Calk collection consists of eight letters that M.L. Calk wrote while he served with the 23rd Alabama Volunteer Infantry Regiment. Four of the letters are addressed to his mother, W.E. Calk, and four are addressed to his sister, Emma A. Calk. These handwritten letters, dating from December 9, 1861 through May 8, 1863, are accompanied by typed transcriptions. Several letters have additional writing in another hand.
General correspondence, drafts, galley proofs, a book, and clippings from 1974 to 1978 from Joan Lowery Nixon's writing career and Hershell Howard Nixon's work as an exploration petroleum geologist.
The Dr. Patrick J. Nicholson Papers consist of eleven records center cartons, one manuscript box and two oversized boxes. The collection includes correspondence, brochures, reports and newspaper articles concerning many university-related topics and a small amount of personal material. Some folders contain a variety of materials relating to that particular folder topic. Materials in the collection date from 1933 to 1979, with the majority dating from the mid-1960s to the mid-1970s.
The collection is divided into four series: Correspondence, University of Houston, Personal, and Oversize. The collection arrived in little discernible order and with little arrangement. An arrangement scheme has been imposed in consultation with the Archivist. For preservation reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as much as possible, to original folder titles. Exceptions were made when the folder title was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original item order has been preserved whenever possible.
Much of the collection concerns the University of Houston, or involves University of Houston groups, regardless whether the words "University of Houston" are part of the folder title. Topics relating to the University of Houston include the university in general, fundraising activities, history of the university, financial statements, and testimony before the Higher Education Commission, among many others. While the personal portion of the collection is relatively small, it has been maintained to provide background information and perspective to the researcher. It includes a variety of materials including Nicholson's dissertation. Additionally the collection contains an extensive range of newspaper articles relating to both UH and non-UH subjects.
This series dates from 1958 through 1969, with one folder from 1976. It is the largest (fifteen boxes) and the strongest series within this collection. It consists of letters from Nicholson to a variety of people including donors, potential donors, and well-known associates of the university among others. The folders in this series cover a wide range of university related topics. Due to Nicholson's job responsibilities as Vice President of University Development, fundraising receives a strong emphasis within the correspondence series. Materials are arranged chronologically.
This series dates from the 1940s to 1979 and covers a wide range of materials and topics relating to the University of Houston. Types of materials include reports, studies, brochures, class notes, and articles. Topics range from building dedications and general history to testimony by university officials before various commissions. Also included in this series are page proofs for Nicholson's book In Time. Original folder titles have been maintained as much as possible. The materials in this series were in no discernable order and an order has been imposed in consultation with the Archivist. This series has been divided into five sub-series: General History, Financial Records, Development, Teaching, and Subject Files. In general the folders in each sub-series are arranged chronologically.
This series consists mainly of brochures, invitations and Christmas cards, which do not relate to the University of Houston. They have been maintained with the collection to give the researcher a more complete perspective on Nicholson's life. The folder entitled "Hitler Wager" contains correspondence between Leopold L. Meyer, of Foley Brother's Dry Goods Company, and H.R. Cullen concerning a wager between the two men. Additional topics include organizations and clubs with which Nicholson was involved, including the Hibernians and Allegro. The Hibernians are an Irish Catholic organization dedicated to the protection of "American democracy, liberty of conscience and freedom of religion," and Allegro was an organization that sponsored a debutante ball each year. This series is arranged chronologically.
This series contains extensive newspaper articles relating to both university and non-university issues. The university topics include Texas Governor Smith's 1970 visit, university sports, the university in general and early university history. The newspaper articles relating to non-university topics include additional materials on the Hibernians and Allegro.
The Mary Blount Christian Papers include background information, correspondence, research material, writings, corrected copies, proofs, mockups, presentation copies, drafts, and illustrations from the career of children's book author Mary Blount Christian. Titles represented in the archive include Hats Are for Watering Horses, J.J. Leggett, Secret Agent, The Sand Lot, and Scarabee, the Witch's Cat.
In 1985 the President's Office transferred custody of most of its historic files to the Archives. At the time of transfer, the collection was referred to as the University of Houston Presidential Papers prior to 1979 and it consisted of forty-two boxes divided into three series. The first series of twenty-one boxes was processed in 1997 as the Presidents' Records 1927-1979 . The other two series from this transfer were initially processed in 2001 as the Philip G. Hoffman Papers.
It was decided in 2002 that, while the processing of the University of Houston Presidential Papers Prior to 1979 as two separate collections was acceptable; it was not ideal for research purposes. To improve the accessibility to the collections it was determined that the Philip G. Hoffman Papers and the Presidents' Records should be combined back into one collection, the President's Office Records . As the bulk of the material within President's Records seemed to correspond most directly to the first series (Subject Files) within the Hoffman Papers that is where the majority of re-filing and integration was needed.
The President's Office Records include correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, invitations, and related material dating from 1927-1981 that were received or created by the President of the University of Houston. The bulk of the material dates from the mid-1960s to 1978 and was generated during the presidency of Philip G. Hoffman.
The files are rich in materials documenting the history of state support for the University, which was received in 1963, as well as materials showing the rise of student discontent on campus in the late 1960s and early 1970s. See particular student groups such as AABL (Afro-Americans for Black Liberation) for information about the group and its activities and the administration's reaction and response to their demands. This collection also documents the early history of the University of Houston System, with its campuses in Clear Lake, Victoria, and at UH-Downtown. There is also a substantial amount of material relating to the investment scandal of the late 1970s and to the self-study that was undertaken in the mid 1970s.
Photographs in the collection have been transferred to the UH Historical Photographs Collection in the University Archives. A separation sheet notes their original location in the collection and provides a brief description of the items. All student transcripts in the collection have been removed and destroyed, following the Texas Open Records Act. For similar reasons, all materials relating to search committees and personnel decisions have been removed from the collection and are closed to the public.
The collection is arranged into series and sub-series based primarily on how it was originally received in 1985. The nine series are Subject Files, Mission Self-Study, Coordinating Board, President's Cabinet, Investment Investigation, Council of Presidents, Speeches/Oral Interview/Biographical Information, Business/Personal, and President's Christmas Cards. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
An index to the collection is available. Please contact Special Collections for more information.
This series is the largest in the collection containing forty-nine boxes of general working files that are presumed to be the President's office files. Materials date from 1927 to 1980, with the bulk of the materials dating between 1960 and 1978. The files cover almost every aspect of the University including student groups, commencement, committees, accreditation, the different colleges, national education related organizations and associations, and the other campuses within the University of Houston System. Files in this series have been arranged alphabetically and then chronologically when necessary.
This series contains twenty-seven folders that relate to the University's Mission Self-Study. President Hoffman and Vice President Emmett Fields announced the Mission Self-Study at the General Faculty Meeting on January 11, 1974. The purpose of the study was to fulfill a requirement by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools that each member institution conduct a self-study at least once each decade for re-accreditation purposes. The materials date from 1974 to 1976 and include extensive data used in the study and the results from the study itself. The original folder order was chronological and has been maintained except where folders were obviously misfiled.
This series contains eighty-five folders that relate to the Higher Education Coordinating Board. The Higher Education Coordinating Act of 1965 provided that the Coordinating Board shall "review periodically all degree and certificate programs offered by institutions of higher education…." (Section 10, Paragraph [5]). The materials in this series are extensive in nature consisting primarily of meeting minutes and date from 1968-1976. The series is divided into two sub-series, Active and Inactive, based on the order received.
This series contains twenty-five folders that relate to meetings of the President's Cabinet. These materials are extensive in nature and include agendas and minutes for most of the President's Cabinet meetings from September 1977 through October 1979. The Cabinet met generally on a monthly basis to discuss significant issues facing the University. These issues included, but were not limited to, the financial affairs of the university, search processes for senior level management positions, building expansions, and major renovations.
This series containing 126 folders covers almost every aspect of the largest scandal in the history of the University of Houston, which involved short-term investments made on behalf of the university resulting in the loss of several millions of dollars. The materials date from 1970 to 1981, with the majority dating between the years of 1976 and 1978. The files in this series are presumed to be the President's office files and they consist of a variety of materials including reports, correspondence, financial documents, affidavits, and news clippings. This series has been divided into two sub-series based on how it arrived at the Archives. The two sub-series are General and Vice President Singleton's In-house Investigation. The materials within the sub-series were in no order so the Archivist has imposed one. All oversized materials have been boxed separately and are found at the end of this series.
The items in this sub-series date from 1975-1981 and the folders have been arranged in roughly chronological order.
President Hoffman and the Board of Regents charged Vice President Roger Singleton to analyze the activities that had led to the Board of Regent's investigation into the university's investment fund activity. This sub-series consists primarily of working files and correspondence that he used during his investigation. The materials in this series include correspondence amongst the parties involved, copies of ledger entries and financial transactions, and other relevant materials. This sub-series has been divided into five sub-sub-series: Roger Singleton; Douglas G. MacLean; Correspondence; Financial, Banking, and Legal Materials; and General Research and Reference Materials.
The university hired Roger Singleton in 1969 as assistant dean and assistant professor of accounting in the College of Business Administration. Later he served as Vice President and Dean of Faculties on an interim basis and as Executive Vice President of the University of Houston System. This sub-sub-series relates directly to Singleton himself and is arranged chronologically.
When Charles F. McElhinney retired in 1973, Douglas G. MacLean replaced him as the University's top financial officer. During MacLean's tenure, Sam Harwell, J. Treadway Brogdon, and Harold W. Scott all answered to him. After the improper activity was uncovered, MacLean was placed on a six-month administrative leave with pay. When the UH regents announced their findings regarding the investigation, one of their recommendations was that MacLean not be kept on staff when his leave of absence expired. The others who had been responsible for supervising Harwell's investment program either resigned or retired. This sub-sub-series relates directly to Douglas MacLean and the folders are arranged chronologically.
This sub-sub-series consists primarily of correspondence with various entities including, but not limited to, financial institutions, banks, law firms, and various university departments. Folders are arranged chronologically.
This sub-sub-series consists of extensive financial records and reports relating to the university's short-term investments. Of special interest are Brogdam's Report on Short-term Investments and Hoffman's testimony before the House of Representatives Committee on Cash Management. Folders are arranged chronologically.
This sub-sub series consist of several different types of materials including photocopies of ledger entries and checks, correspondence, and remarks by President Hoffman before the Higher Education Committee.
This series contains ten folders that date from 1965-1978. The Council of Presidents was a group of Presidents from the Public Senior Colleges and Universities in the State of Texas. This group examined various issues related to higher education including continuing education, pay raises for state employees, medical and health fees, and many other issues.
This series dates from 1962 to 1976 and contains materials relating to trips Hoffman took and the automobile he used while in his position at UH.
This series consists of fifteen folders dating from 1961 to 1977. It contains samples of the Christmas Cards sent out by the President's Office during Philip Hoffman's term as president.
UHCL Communications Office Records consists of clippings, correspondence, and other documents in files relating to university personnel, the Houston Shaw Festival, and the Bridges Preprimary Laboratory School.
This small collection deals entirely with the Port of Houston. It is comprised entirely of clippings and publications related to the history of the Port of Houston.
For additional information on the Port of Houston, see the Houston Ship Channel 50th Anniversary Collection as well as published materials available through the online catalog.
The John R. Garman Papers include biographical information on Garman, documents on Apollo 11-16 missions and navigation systems, ALSA/SOMA programs and reports, programmed guidance equations and analysis, HAL compiler and language, STS avionics, the space station, Information Resource Management, photographs, and presentation slides.
The Lowther collection consists of 13 letters from Confederate soldier W.D. Lowther to his fiancee, Phronie or Fronie Autry, in Texas during the United States Civil War. Dated from June, 1863 through May of 1864, these handwritten letters are all accompanied by typed transcriptions, and a few folders contain handwritten transcripts, as well.
The UH Veteran's Office Records contain material pertaining to the university and government-sponsored office for the support and advising of veteran students during the 1940s and 1950s. Dates for items in the collection range from 1944 to 1958, with the bulk of the material dating from the late 1940s.
The collection is arranged into nine series: Veteran's Office, Veteran's Staff Meetings, Budget, Correspondence with Veteran's Administration, Veteran's Administration Field Manual for Training Officers, Guidance Office, Veteran's Service Center, Forms, and Miscellaneous. The original arrangement has been kept intact where possible, however some minor rearrangement was necessary to facilitate research. Material is grouped chronologically within each series. Folder headings used by the originators have been adhered to where possible. For additional information on Veteran's affairs at the University of Houston, researchers should also consult the Veteran's Village Records.
There are twenty-one folders in this series containing items dating from 1944 to 1951. Material in this series consists of general correspondence between Veteran's Office personnel and University of Houston administrators, as well as some Veteran's Administration and other assorted letters.
The three folders in this series contain minutes and notes from meetings held from 1946 to 1947.
There are three folders in this series. Material dating from 1948 to August 1949 is largely in the form of ledger sheets and financial summaries.
There are eight folders in this series with material dating from 1947 through 1949. Items focus exclusively on correspondence with the Veteran's Administration. [Note: this material was separated from other general correspondence (i.e., what is now the Veteran's Office series) in the collection's original arrangement.]
The one folder in this series is a guide published in May 1946 by the Vocational Rehabilitation and Education Division of the Houston, Texas Regional VA office. It compiles Veteran's Administration regulations and procedures for personnel working with veterans in higher education. Organizational charts and specific instructions for completing various forms are included.
There are three folders in this series with items dating from 1947 to 1950. Material in this series includes floor plans, a blueprint, and correspondence with university administration concerning the construction of an office space to house the UH Veteran's Office. It also contains specific registration procedures.
The two folders in this series contain material from August 1945 through 1948, and some undated items. It focuses on information dealing with a Veteran's service center located off campus, for ex-military personnel in the greater Houston area.
There are five folders in this series containing various forms and registration material required of veterans by the Veteran's Administration and the University of Houston. Material dates from 1945 to 1950.
The two folders in this series contain material from July 1946 and 1958. Documents include vocational school class lists and a copy of The Wesleyan, a Methodist students' group newsletter.
The 35 items in the Winfield Scott collection document aspects of the life, military service and political career of General Scott from 1831 to 1866. The items include letters, general orders, legislative ordinance, maps, sheet music, envelopes, several printed engravings and a printed mezzotint. A letter addressed to Elisa Wyse from Lieutenant John Wyse, with whom General Scott corresponds, also is included.
The Veteran's Village Records contain material dealing with the organization of the Veteran's Council, the UH Veteran's Club, newsletters as well as announcements, petitions, and press releases. Items date from 1945 to 1956 with most of the material dating from the late 1940s and early 1950s.
The collection is arranged into seven series: Constitution, Veterans Club Meetings, Record of Activities Council, Petitions, Press Releases and Announcements, Nursery School, and the Village News (the Village newsletter). The original arrangement has been kept intact where possible, however some minor rearrangement was necessary to facilitate research. Material is arranged chronologically within each series. When possible, folder headings used by the originators have been adhered to in arranging and describing the records.
There is one folder in this series containing two constitutions for the Veterans Club of the University of Houston. The first version is marked as a copy of the October 1945 document, while the second is a revised copy from September 1955. Each constitution also lists by-laws for the organization.
The four folders in this series hold material created between 1945 and 1956. The bulk of the items in this series are minutes from Veterans Council meetings. Most of the notes are handwritten, apparently by the same person. This individual was likely R. O. Jonas, chief counselor for veterans during the post-war era and a faculty sponsor of the Veterans Club. The material dated 1945 and 1946 appears to have been removed from a notebook and contains several newspaper clippings pertaining to veteran's activities at the university as well as lists of club members.
This series contains a notebook with material dating from 1946 to 1947. Items within the notebook range from minutes of meetings and newsletters, to announcements of activities and correspondence.
There is one folder in this series containing material from 1945. The petition was designed by the Veterans Club to assist veterans who had not received their subsistence allowances during the latter months of 1945.
There is one folder in this series. The bulk of the series content is undated. That which is dated ranges from 1946 to 1947.
There are five folders in this series, with material dating from 1947 and 1948. Each folder is an individual sub-series dealing with different aspects of the creation of a nursery school for the Veterans Village. Items include the initial proposal, administrative policies, purchase orders and requisitions, and a conversion plan.
The six folders in this series contain copies of the Village News from November 1946 through 1950, with some undated items. The Village News chronicles important events in the Veterans Village as well as providing names of council officers for specific areas of the Village.
The William A. Bernrieder Collection has a great deal of information about the history of the USS Houston (CA-30) as well as the USS Texas and Franklin Roosevelt's visit to Houston in 1936. Bernrieder corresponded with many of the leading businessmen and politicians in Houston during his lifetime, as well as officers in the Navy. The collection dates from 1917- 1988, with the bulk of the material dating from 1929-1936 and from 1970-1986.
Bernrieder kept a considerable amount of material from his early work regarding having a ship named for the city of Houston and added additional materials to his files throughout his life. There are also a number of items from A. D. Simpson, who was heavily involved in the Cruiser Houston Committee as well.
For the most part, arrangement has followed Bernrieder's subject files with some modification. File folders that could be sub-divided chronologically or by sub-topic have been refiled. Also, folders with materials covering the same topic which had originally been filed separately have been brought together. Because Bernrieder followed a subject arrangement for his files, correspondence is scattered throughout the collection.
There are a number of series within the collection, based on subject with the exception of the Correspondence series. The series are: Correspondence, Democratic Party, Franklin Roosevelt's Visit, USS Houston Campaign, USS Houston , USS Texas , Publications, and Miscellaneous. Within each series are additional topics, arranged alphabetically by subject heading. The largest series is the USS Houston series, which chronicles the history of the USS Houston .
Later additions to the collection have been incorporated into the subject files arrangement where possible. However, large amounts of correspondence which were donated after the initial gift of materials in 1979 have been given a simple chronological arrangement. Most of the correspondence in those files discusses the USS Houston and related matters, although there is one letter, dated August 23, 1977 which includes Bernrieder's recollections of the Camp Logan riots in Houston in 1917.
For related materials, see the Cruiser Houston Collection, which includes materials donated by crew members from the USS Houston and their families and friends. A large portion of the photographs in the Cruiser Houston Collection were given by Bernrieder, and have remained in that collection.
This is an artificial series, which incorporates all of the correspondence from later gifts by Bernrieder to the collection. The correspondence follows a chronological arrangement scheme. Most of the correspondence relates to the USS Houston and Mr. Bernrieder's interest in the collection. Materials from the 1980s include a great deal of correspondence with Otto Schwarz, founder of the USS Houston Survivors Association. Bernrieder corresponded with a number of officers in the United States Navy, as well as Texas and Houston politicians.
This series relates primarily to the campaign to have a cruiser named after the city of Houston. The bulk of the materials is correspondence. A great deal of related materials may be found both the USS Houston series as well as the Correspondence series. A small amount of information relating to the drive for a second Cruiser Houston is in this series (for related materials, see the files in the USS Houston series under USS Houston (CL-81)).
This is the largest of the series and focuses primarily on the USS Houston (CA-30). The material in this section includes correspondence, clippings, telegrams, photographs, and other materials. The bulk of the series dates from 1927-1936, focusing on the beginnings of the USS Houston , its launch, and early visits to the city of Houston.
The correspondence relating to the launching of the USS Houston is arranged chronologically. Invitations were sent to all major naval officers, many Houston and Texas politicians, members of the U.S. Cabinet, and dignitaries from Congress and from other states. Replies were received by nearly all those invited.
There are some materials relating to the two ships which followed the USS Houston (CA-30). Another ship named the USS Houston was launched in 1943. Materials relating to that ship may be found in the USS Houston (CL-81) files. Materials relating to the nuclear submarine, the USS Houston (SSN-713), may be located under that heading. Clippings have been placed in files, but have not been placed in order. Particular care must be taken when using the clippings as most are on highly acidic, fragile newsprint.
This is a small series, which includes a number of items relating to Bernrieder's involvement in politics. The bulk of the series includes clippings relating to the 1932 elections and the Democratic National Convention, which was held in Houston in 1928. Additional materials include correspondence with Chesley Jurney and George Graves. For related materials, see the files in the Franklin Roosevelt Visit Series.
The bulk of this series relates to Franklin Roosevelt's visit to Houston in 1936. Included are documents relating to planning the various events, such as the parade and visit to the San Jacinto Battlefield. There is some correspondence with various Democratic politicians, including Marvin McIntyre, Alfred E. Smith, Jr. and Henry Breckinridge. These materials were labeled by Bernrieder as belonging with the Roosevelt visit material.
This series was created from a box of publications which Bernrieder kept together. There are two sub-series: Miscellaneous and USS Houston. The publications in the Miscellaneous sub-series relate primarily to Houston history, the Port of Houston, and a book on Edmund W. Starling. Other smaller pamphlets and clippings will be found in other series.
The USS Houston sub-series includes pamphlets on the USS Houston as well as books and other published materials which discuss the Asiatic Fleet and the U.S. Navy.
This small series relates to the USS Texas. Materials include clippings, correspondence, and publications which discuss the USS Texas. Most of the material deals with the addition of the USS Texas to the San Jacinto Battlefield.
These materials were not with other subject files and did not readily fall into available subject files. The majority of the materials in this series relate to a group of lithographs created by Judith Ann Saks of the Port of Houston, which were distributed throughout the country.
The Cheryl Crawford Collection documents her career in theatre from almost the beginning through the years immediately preceding the sale of her collection to the University of Houston. Items date between 1862 and 1981, with the bulk of the items dated 1940 through 1978. There are 3,335 items in the collection.
The collection includes correspondence, production materials, scripts, programs, playbills, audio tapes, posters, sheet music, sound recordings, clippings, budgets, tax returns, legal agreements, contracts, audits, reviews, speeches, and miscellaneous items such as postcards and receipts.
The series are arranged as follows: Correspondence, Productions, Scripts, Programs, Playbills, Serials, Audio Tapes, Sheet Music, Sound Recordings, a General series for miscellaneous items, and Posters. The finding aid includes a complete container listing. Item listings of correspondence, production materials, playbills, programs, and general items are available upon request.
Some printed items have been removed from the collection and incorporated into the library's cataloged holdings. These materials include books and some sheet music. The materials which have been removed from the collection and cataloged are available for use.
There are 438 items in this series. The correspondence is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. Letters received and sent have been kept together, as that is the arrangement used by Crawford. Letters date from 1936 to 1977, with the bulk of the material dated 1950 through 1961.
In some cases, the only correspondence with a particular person are the carbon copies saved by Crawford. People to which carbon copies of letters sent are all that were kept are: Judy Garland, Oscar Hammerstein, Burgess Meredith, Marilyn Monroe, Shelley Winters, and Audrey Wood. Major correspondents include Mary Martin and Richard Halliday, Marc Blitzstein, Tennessee Williams, and Thornton Wilder. A complete listing of letters sent and received is available.
This series does not include correspondence related to specific productions which has been filed with other materials related to that production. Additional correspondence related to a particular production is located with other records of the production. There also is some correspondence in the General series, placed with related items such as the Diary of Anne Frank lawsuit file.
There is little personal correspondence, as most items relate directly to activities in the theatre.
Production materials are arranged alphabetically by the title of the production. Within each production, materials are arranged chronologically, although in some cases where the amount of material warrants separation the materials are divided by category (i.e. legal, financial, etc.). The materials are dated 1938 to 1976, with the bulk of the materials dated 1944 through 1976. There are 2,060 items in this series.
Materials include legal agreements, contracts, financial records, insurance policies, costume descriptions, receipts, box office statements, and correspondence related to the productions.
There are five full-length scripts in this series. They include two plays by Clifford Odets, The Nursery and Paradise Lost, the musical Johnny Johnson , written by Paul Green, Sweet Bird of Youth , written by Tennessee Williams, and The Trojan Women , written by F. G. Yerby.
These materials date from 1923 through 1978, with the bulk of the material dated 1948 through 1978. There are 275 programs in this series.
The programs have been separated into two sub-series; plays in which Crawford was involved in some fashion and plays in which she was not involved. Both sub-series are arranged alphabetically by title of the performance. Plays in which Crawford was not involved are further divided into American and British productions. The British programs include a few playbills produced in London for British productions.
There are no programs in this series which date after 1951 for productions in which Crawford was involved. Those interested in programs for Crawford productions dated after 1951 should check the Playbills series.
This series has been separated into two sub-series; playbills for productions in which Crawford was involved, and playbills for productions in which she was not involved. All items are arranged alphabetically by the title of the production. The bulk of the materials are dated 1973-1978. There are 123 items in this series.
Playbills are commercially produced programs for theatrical productions, generally produced in larger cities with strong theatrical encalves such as New York and London. The playbills include features on various performers, articles on fashion, and other stories related to the theater and of interest to theatregoers.
The playbills for non-Crawford productions have been separated American and miscellaneous productions. The collection includes 11 playbills for Crawford productions, including The Rose Tattoo , for which Crawford won a Tony Award.
A complete listing of playbills is available upon request.
There are several serials relating to the stage which are included in Crawford's papers. The magazines are arranged chronologically. There are 12 items in this series, including several issues of Show Business Illustrated , one issue of Motion Picture , and one issue of Rona Barrett Looks At . The bulk of the material is dated 1961.
This series has 8 items and includes interviews and recordings on audiotape. Included are two seven-inch reel-to-reel tapes; No For An Answer , and The Cradle Will Rock . There are also six three-inch reel-to-reel tapes and one cassette tape. The quality of these materials may vary. Only one tape has a date noted on the item.
Please give the staff at least 24 hours advance notice if interested in using these materials in order to reserve equipment for the patron's use. The department is planning on transferring the reels to cassette tape for easier use by patrons.
The sheet music collection includes 128 items. The series has been arranged into two sub-series to separate the oversize items. Both sub-series are arranged alphabetically by title, with the oversize items following the standard items. The majority of the series is dated between 1920 and 1940.
There is a manuscript of "Johnny's Song," written by Kurt Weill with a note dedicating the song to Crawford. The manuscript and accompanying note are housed separately from the series in an oversized box.
This collection contains 44 titles, comprised of 90 discs. The recordings are arranged alphabetically by the title of the disc or discs. The materials are dated 1945-1970, with the bulk of the records dated 1962-1970. Most of the records are 33 1/3 rpm, although there are several 78 rpm.
Several of the recordings are musicals productions, including Brigadoon , Porgy and Bess , Camelot , and Johnny Johnson . There are also two interviews on record.
Please provide advance notice if interested in using the sound recordings. The staff will arrange for the appropriate equipment to be placed in the Reading Room.
There are twenty folders in this series, which is arranged alphabetically by folder title. The materials in this series are dated 1931 through 1976, with the bulk of the materials dated 1942 through 1974. There are 219 items in this series.
Included are papers related to the Actors Studio which include programs, membership lists, and minutes, the Group Theatre, the American Reperatory Theatre, the Crawshank Company, and the lawsuit in which Crawford was engaged regarding The Diary of Anne Frank . There are clippings and papers discussing Tennessee Williams. There are also miscellaneous financial statements.
There are several clippings and pages from Variety magazine. These are dated 1955-1968, and include several pages of the "Golden Jubilee" issue celebrating 50 years of American theater. These items are housed separately in an oversized box.
This series is arranged alphabetically and includes 24 posters used to advertise various productions in which Crawford was involved.
The Dr. David Ashley White Papers consist of forty boxes of materials dating from 1965 to 2001 with the bulk of the collection dating from 1980-1998. The first donation to this collection occurred in 1991, which was processed in 1993. Dr. White has made numerous additions since then and future material is expected. This collection consists of published and manuscript scores, programs, correspondence, audio-visual materials, and other items relating to his career as both a composer and music instructor. The collection has been divided into six series: Scores and Manuscripts, Programs, Correspondence, Professional Activities, Personal Materials and Audio/Visual Materials.
The Scores and Manuscripts series dates from 1965-2001, with the bulk of the series dating from 1980-1998. This is the largest series in the collection with nineteen boxes containing hundreds, of Dr. White's original pencil/ink manuscripts. The series has been arranged into eight sub-series based on the type of musical composition: Choral Music, Chamber Music, This Bitterly Beautiful Land, Larger Orchestral Works, Solo Voice with piano and/or Other Instruments, Solo Instruments, Hymn Tunes, and Miscellaneous. Published pieces have been included when available.
There are 181 folders in this sub-series, which have been arranged alphabetically by title. This is the strongest area of the collection containing most of the sacred and secular vocal compositions.
There are twenty-two folders in this sub-series, which have been arranged alphabetically by title. This sub-series includes the manuscript for Lament, the earliest musical piece by Dr. White in this collection. The requisite instrumentation is given for each piece.
This sub-series contains a cantata commissioned by the Concert Chorale of Houston as part of the Texas Sesquicentennial Celebration in 1986. A research grant in the spring of 1985 facilitated the composing of this work. This sub-series includes background materials and notes, individual movements, instrumental parts, and both incomplete and complete scores.
There are six folders in this sub-series, which have been arranged alphabetically by title. Aside from This Bitterly Beautiful Land, these are the most elaborate of Dr. White's compositions.
There are nine folders in this sub-series, which have been arranged alphabetically by title. The voice type and instrumentation are given with each piece.
There are nine folders in this sub-series. Solo Instruments included are flute, organ, and piano. The pieces have been arranged first by instrument and then alphabetically.
There are 115 folders in this sub-series, which have been arranged alphabetically by title. David Ashley White is considered by many to be one of the most prolific hymn composers of modern times. Many of these hymns have been selected for publication by Selah Publishers. The researcher may also wish to look at the Correspondence Series for additional information on Selah Publishers. Published hymns have been included with their appropriate title. Proofs for Dr. White's Hymnary are included at the end of this sub-series.
There are three folders in this sub-series containing unidentified scores, musical notebooks, and manuscript fragments. These scores, while unidentified, most certainly relate to the compositions found in the preceding folders.
There are five boxes in this series consisting of various programs of performances of David Ashley White's works. Dr. White's works have been performed extensively throughout North America and Europe. The programs are arranged chronologically. Venues with large numbers of performances have been foldered separately, placed in chronological order, and are found at the end of the series.
This series consists of five boxes and has been divided into five sub-series: Publishers, Selah Publishing, Individuals, Miscellaneous Letters, and Kent Kennan. The box of Selah Publishing materials (box 25, folder 22) contains relevant catalogs of Dr. White's music.
There are nineteen folders in this sub-series arranged alphabetically by publisher, then chronologically within each folder.
There are nine folders in this sub-series containing correspondence, catalogs, various hymns and hymn proofs.
There are twelve folders in this sub-series arranged alphabetically by last name. Correspondents include David Tomatz, former Director of the School of Music; James Pickering, former President of UH; and Christoper Theofanidas, one of Dr. White's many students.
There are nine folders in this sub-series consisting of cards and letters from various churches, universities, and individuals. Items are arranged chronologically except for non-dated material found in box 28, folder 3.
There are two boxes containing sixteen folders in this sub-series. The folders are arranged chronologically and include manuscripts and published scores as well as books by Kent Kennan used by David Ashley White.
There are over three boxes in this series which has been divided into four sub-series: University of Houston Moores School of Music, Legal, Conferences and Papers, and Clippings and Articles.
There are eighteen folders in this sub-series covering Dr. White's work at the University of Houston and The Moores School of Music. Materials include correspondence, awards, promotion and tenure materials, articles, student programs, and class schedules.
There are six folders in this sub-series dealing primarily with the legal aspects of music publishing. Included are materials related to Dr. White's membership in the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), contracts, and copyright permissions. This sub-series is arranged chronologically.
There are fifteen folders in this sub-series containing a variety of papers Dr. White has presented during his professional career. It is arranged alphabetically by organization name, title of the paper, or geographic location, as appropriate.
There are eight folders in this sub-series containing reviews of performances and compositions taken from local and national newspapers and professional journals.
There are thirteen folders in this series containing various personal items including photographs, materials from Dr. White's education, poetry, and musical scores composed by other individuals.
There are seventy-eight items in this series including audio cassettes, record albums, and a video. Contents of these items include various performances of Dr. White's compositions and lectures by or interviews with Dr. White. Some items are arranged alphabetically and some by topic.
The William W. Edgerton collection is composed of personal correspondence between Civil War private William Wilberforce Edgerton of the 107th New York Volunteers and his immediate family. Most of the letters are between William W. Edgerton and his mother, Dorothy Doud Edgerton. Additional correspondents include his brother, John Howard Edgerton, and his sisters, Martha Newton and Augusta Tenney.
The correspondence is arranged chronologically. Following it are some battle diaries kept by William Edgerton, and some other miscellaneous items.
Note: Locations have been noted exactly as written even though obviously misspelled, e.g. staford for Stafford and corthouse for Courthouse.
This collection contains materials collected by Ima Hogg in relation to cultural events which she attended. Included in the collection are scrapbooks, programs, newspaper clippings, magazine articles, leaflets, brochures, other ephemeral materials, documents, and a printed book. Materials in the collection date from 1900 to 1978, with the bulk of materials falling between the years 1900 and 1964.
The majority of the programs in the collection are from symphony concerts attended by Miss Hogg, both in Houston and in various cities in the United States and Europe. The development of the Houston Symphony is well-represented in this collection through programs and newspaper clippings.
A significant portion of the programs and clippings are contained in seven scrapbooks which Miss Hogg created. Many of these scrapbooks include Miss Hogg's handwritten comments on the performances she attended.
The collection has been reorganized by format for improved access, with materials related to the Houston Symphony or other Houston cultural organizations coming first within each format category. The series are arranged as follows: Scrapbooks, Printed Book, Programs: Houston Symphony Orchestra, Houston Symphony Fund-raising/Subscription, Programs, and Clippings. The finding aid includes a complete container listing.
This series contains scrapbooks created by Ima Hogg of programs from concerts and plays she attended through the years, along with her handwritten notes on the performances. The scrapbooks are arranged in loosely chronological order. Scrapbooks 3 and 5 have extremely brittle paper and require careful handling. Scrapbook 4 includes the program for the first concert ever performed by the Houston Symphony, dated June 21, 1913.
This series includes one book privately printed by the Houston Symphony Society for Ima Hogg.
This series contains printed programs for concerts given by the Houston Symphony Orchestra. The programs are divided into two types, and organized sequentially. Major concerts such as subscription series concerts come first, and are organized chronologically from earliest to the most recent. Other concerts such as pops or special concerts follow, and are also organized chronologically from earliest to most recent.
This series contains promotional materials, such as pamphlets and leaflets, related to fund-raising for the Houston Symphony and subscriptions to the concert programs of the Houston Symphony. Also included in this series is a typed document comparing the symphonies of various North American cities by such factors as city population, number of concerts, budget, etc.
This series contains programs from various musical organizations, theatres, and music festivals other than the Houston Symphony. The organization of this series is first geographic, then according to the type of organization, with musical organizations coming before non-musical ones, and finally chronological. In this series, Houston area programs come first, followed by American programs, and finally by European programs. Within each geographic region, musical programs come first, followed by non-musical programs (primarily for theatre productions). Some of the programs are grouped by the individual organization (example: Houston Grand Opera), and some are grouped together (example: Various American Symphony Orchestras). Within each grouping, the programs are arranged chronologically.
Newspaper clippings primarily concerning the Houston Symphony Orchestra, the Houston Symphony Society, and Ima Hogg and the Hogg family. The original clippings have been replaced by photocopies on acid-free paper for preservation purposes. The clippings are arranged chronologically from earliest to most recent.
This collection includes correspondence, creative works, clippings, and printed matter written by or related to the poet Vassar Miller. The materials fall between the years 1969 and 2000. Included in this collection are poems and other works by Vassar Miller, critical essays about Vassar Miller, photocopied newspaper clippings, and a typescript of Bruce Kellner's play about Vassar Miller, Swimming on Concrete.
Several folders include correspondence related to Vassar Miller's care in a nursing facility in 1996.
[THIS ITEM TO REMAIN SEALED UNTIL AFTER DONOR'S DEATH]
The Fritz Leiber Papers contains correspondence, notes, manuscripts, typescripts, publications and tearsheets, diaries and biographical materials, financial, legal and medical records, photographs, illustrations, convention materials, and miscellaneous materials. Additional oversize art/illustration materials and ephemera such as weaponry, sculpture, and awards are housed separately. The materials date from the 1930s to the 1980s. They are housed in 60 manuscripts boxes, 5 storage boxes, and 3 oversized boxes.
The collection was compiled from 41 boxes of previously unprocessed Fritz Leiber materials, 23 boxes of Fritz Leiber papers which were processed in 1991-1992, and several boxes of letters which were donated by Franklin C. MacKnight from 1984-1991. Original provenance was lost through preliminary processing, so the order imposed on the Fritz Leiber Papers is artificial and reflects the major categories discovered during final processing. For more information, please refer to the series descriptions.
This series includes correspondence between Fritz Leiber and friends, editors, and fans with the largest series being between Fritz Leiber and his friends Harry Otto Fischer and F.C. MacKnight. Correspondence is filed alphabetically by the last name of the correspondent, then by written or inferred date. Partially dated or undated materials are filed behind all dated materials.
This series contains handwritten or typed notes for various Fritz Leiber stories. Notes are filed alphabetically by the title of the work. Unidentifiable notes are filed last.
Fritz Leiber's manuscripts and typescripts filed alphabetically by title. Works include but are not limited to short stories, novels, fantasy magazine columns, scientific articles, astronomical/astrological, and poetry.
Tear sheets or full issues of periodicals containing Fritz Leiber's work. Arranged alphabetically by publication title, then by story or article title. Photocopies may have been substituted when original was too fragile to use.
Reviews of Fritz Leiber works, written by others. Filed alphabetically by story title.
Fritz Leiber's reviews of other authors' science fiction, fantasy, or literary works. This series is organized alphabetically by story title, if only the title is known, and by author, then title when the author is known.
Fritz Leiber's spiral bound notebooks from 1972-1989, as well as several miscellaneous notebooks and sporadically filled out, undated diaries.
Interviews, bibliographies, biographical and autobiographical materials, genealogical items, clippings, about Fritz Leiber. Includes Fritz Leiber's obituary notices.
Tax returns, bills, canceled checks, check stubs, banking statements, and miscellaneous receipts.
Royalty statements from various publishers for sales of Fritz Leiber works around the world. Arranged alphabetically by name of publishing house.
Literary contracts and agreements filed alphabetically, copyright applications filed chronologically, estate papers for Fritz Leiber's first wife, aunt, and cousin as well as rental agreements and miscellaneous legal documents
Fritz Leiber's addiction rehabilitation documentation, notes on his eye surgery, as well as death certificate, funeral/cremation/memorial services arrangements.
Photographs and negatives of Fritz Leiber, his family, friends (identified and unidentified), and personal and professional activities.
Artwork, photography, and illustrations of science fiction or fantasy topics. Very few of these pieces can be definitively linked to specific Fritz Leiber stories.
Flyers, programs, schedules, etc. of various science fiction and fantasy conventions Fritz Leiber either attended or was invited to attend. Filed alphabetically by the name of the convention.
Materials in many different formats including publications with no Leiber material in them, awards/certificates, publishers' catalogs, clippings on various topics and items, and items relating to chess, theater, travel, and the University of Chicago. Publications are arranged alphabetically.
Manuscripts of other authors, including Harlan Ellison, Harry O. Fischer, Jonquil Stephens Leiber, Justin Leiber, Arlynn Patrick [Leiber], James Tucker, and Gene Wolfe.
Two swords, not in boxes
The Vassar Miller Papers contain material pertaining to Miller's writings, career, and personal life, and materials pertaining to the editing and publication of the anthology Despite This Flesh. Materials range in date from circa 1937 to 1992, with most of the material falling between the years 1960 to 1986.
The series relating to Miller's own work and life contain correspondence, poems, short stories, plays, miscellaneous works, drafts and typescripts of published works, and material related to Miller's writing career. The Despite This Flesh series contain correspondence, material related to the preparation of the anthology, stories and poems which were considered for possible inclusion in the anthology, and drafts and proofs of the anthology.
Noteworthy correspondents whose letters or notes may be found in the collection include Larry McMurtry, Richard Hugo, Calvin Trillin, Anne Tyler, and James Wright. A brief partial autobiography of Vassar Miller can be found in Miscellaneous Works, and typescripts of interviews done with Vassar Miller may be found in the correspondence of Karla Hammond and the correspondence of Christopher Woods.
Two chapbooks, Small Change and Approaching Nada, two literary magazines, The Touchstone
and Elizabeth, and one broadside, Open Question, have been removed from the manuscript collection and cataloged.
Special Collections also holds numerous signed copies of Miller's books, and Miller's personal collection of signed books by other poets.
This series includes correspondence from editors, fellow writers, friends, and family members of Vassar Miller, and some from Miller to her correspondents. Major correspondents are Miller's Latitudes Press editor Bob Bonazzi, her New Orleans Poetry Journal Press editor Maxine Cassin, and her interviewer Karla Hammond. Correspondence is arranged alphabetically by the last name of the sender, then each sender's correspondence is arranged chronologically. Correspondence identified by first name only, or unidentified, is filed at the end of the series.
Individual poems are arranged first chronologically, then alphabetically within each year. Undated poems are arranged alphabetically after the dated poems. These are followed by unpublished poetry manuscripts in chronological order, and rough drafts of poems in chronological order.
Short stories are arranged alphabetically by title. Untitled stories and fragments are filed at the end of the series.
Plays are arranged alphabetically by title.
Miscellaneous works include essays, reviews, and unidentified creative formats. Miscellaneous works are arranged alphabetically by title, or in a few cases, by format.
Typescripts and proofs of published works are arranged chronologically by the year of publication of the finished work. For each publication, typescripts and proofs are arranged in order of their creation. Some of the typescripts and proofs are photocopies.
Material in this series includes articles about Miller, financial and legal documents, items related to special events, reviews of Miller's work, etc. Materials in this series are arranged by subject.
This series includes material relating to the churches attended by Miller, articles and other items collected as Issues about the Handicapped, and miscellaneous personal materials.
Photographs are arranged in roughly chronological order.
This series contains correspondence related to the editing and publishing of the anthology Despite This Flesh. A major correspondent is University of Texas Press editor Suzanne Comer. Letters suggesting works for inclusion in the anthology, most of them solicited, are arranged separately at the beginning of this series, ordered alphabetically by author. General correspondence concerning the anthology is also ordered alphabetically by author. At the end of this series are permissions for publication, arranged separately by the name of the author of the work for which permission is being granted.
The material related to preparation of the anthology is arranged by subject, maintaining original order.
The stories and poems which were labeled possibilities for the anthology are arranged with bound publications first, then single leaves. The single leaves are separated into two groupings or drafts, the second of which features line and word counts. Within each of these divisions, the bound publications or stories and poems are arranged alphabetically by author. Alphabetical order may not be exact in some sections in order to keep all of the pages in a short story together.
The stories and poems which were labeled selections for the anthology are arranged in two groupings or drafts, each of which follows the organization which was adopted for the anthology. Alphabetical order may not be exact in some sections in order to keep all of the pages in a short story together.
There are three unedited drafts of the anthology, each of which follows the organization of the anthology.
There is one copy-edited draft, which follows the organization of the anthology.
There is one galley proof, which follows the organization of the anthology.
The Tatiana Semenova papers consist of seven boxes of personal material dating from 1933 to 1997. It documents Madame Semenova's early dancing career with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, and her later teaching career in Baton Rouge and Houston. There are five series in this collection: Scrapbooks, Photographs, Personal, Programs, and Realia. The collection was received in no particular order. The processor has imposed the arrangement.
This series consists of five personal scrapbooks of Tatiana Semenova. They contain programs, clippings, and photographs dating from 1933 through 1964. Many items are duplicated amongst the different scrapbooks.
This series consists of two boxes of photographs dating from the 1930s to the 1980s. The series has been broken into four sub-series: Publicity, Personal, American Youth Ballet, and Houston Foundation for Ballet. The ten folders of publicity photographs are of Tatiana, both alone and with others, and date from her early dancing career in the 1930s. The seven folders of Personal photographs date from the 1930s to 1950s. The seven folders containing American Youth Ballet photographs show her work with that group during the 1950s. The three folders of Houston Foundation for Ballet photographs are from the 1960s. Each sub-series is arranged chronologically.
This series consists of one box of personal records including naturalization papers, passports, driver's licenses, and death certificates. Unless otherwise specified, documents relate to Tatiana Seminova. Materials in this series date chronologically from 1944 to 1997.
This series consists of one box of ballet programs and leaflets dating chronologically from the 1950s to 1987. They follow Madame Semenova's career in New York, Baton Rouge, and Houston.
This series contains one Russian lacquer wood box, round with a three inch diameter, painted in gold and black.
The original order of the Professor Richard Jonas Papers has been maintained where possible. The collection includes limited correspondence, brochures and directories that relate to health, welfare and various community-related agencies. Most of the materials in the collection date from 1934 to 1978 with the majority dating from the 1950s. Items in the collection relating to the university include the Guidance Office, job evaluation manual, the library, the proposed College of Philosophy and Religion and U.H. veterans. The collection also includes a small portion of personal correspondence, which may provide background information and perspective to the researcher.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series consists of eight folders, arranged alphabetically. The majority of these contain brochures, bulletins or handouts from various conferences or symposia. The folders date from 1955 to 1969.
This series consists of eighteen folders of brochures, bulletins, newsletters and limited correspondence related to different organizations and associations. Folders are arranged alphabetically and date from 1945 to 1957.
This series is the largest, consisting of 366 folders dating from 1934 to 1986. The materials in this series cover a wide range of university-related topics and it is divided into five sub-series: Administration, Other UH Campuses, Academics, Student Activities and Groups, and Faculty and Staff Activities andGroups. Each sub-series is arranged alphabetically. Due to the positions Jonas held at the university, the folders related to the Guidance Office, library and the Veterans Office contain the most material.
This 76-item collection mainly consists of letters written to and from Colonel Israel Shreve between the years of 1776 and 1793, with the bulk of the correspondence taking place between the years 1777 and 1780. Most of the correspondence is between Shreve and other officers in George Washington's Continental Army, and was written while Shreve was Colonel of the Second Regiment of New Jersey during the Revolutionary War. The collection is divided into two series, one of the Colonel Israel Shreve Correspondence, and one of Miscellaneous materials, including other correspondence.
Typed transcriptions of these items are available in the bound book The Shreve Papers 1776-1792, which is located in the collection file.
A set of photocopies of the Israel Shreve holdings of Rutgers University is also available for use. The Rutgers collection includes letters to and from Shreve, as well as documents pertaining to him, which are contemporary with those of this collection. There are 340 photocopied items total.
This series contains mostly correspondence, plus a few maps and documents. Among the correspondents are General George Washington, Alexander Hamilton, General A.W. Anthony Wayne, and General Henry Lee. Some correspondence is between Shreve and his wife Mary and his brothers Caleb and William. The items in this series are arranged chronologically.
This series contains miscellaneous items dating from 1768 to 1894. These include letters and documents pertaining to Shreve's relatives, two copies of letters from George Washington which were anonymously handwritten at a much later date, and several unrelated items from the same time period. The items in this series are arranged chronologically.
The Stephen F. Austin collection is composed of 46 items including letters, articles, and broadsides, which represent various aspects of Austin's life. The collection begins with an account of Moses Austin's ill-fated business ventures in Virginia, reported in the August 2, 1790 edition of the Hartford, Conn. AMERICAN MERCURY. The collection includes a broadside dated December 28, 1836 announcing Austin's death.
Letters in the collection written by Stephen Austin are from the period during which his colony was established in Texas and the subsequent struggle for independence from Mexico. Included are documents related to his work as Commissioner. Transcriptions and translations have been placed with some materials. Materials are arranged in the order in which they arrived.
Front-page article on the Austins' lead mine and shot manufacturing.
Advertisement for the Moses Austin, and Co. shot factory. Fragments.
Letter to Stephen F. Austin regarding commercial affairs. 1 p.
Order for flour.
Fragment of promissory note.
Check in the amount of $14.70.
Check to self for $494.67.
This folding map shows the empresario grants of Texas. Streeter 1178.
Printed format permitting persons to colonize Austin's colony. Includes five regulations for settling colony. Streeter 1082.
An original Old 300 grant to Locky Self. 4 pp.
Plan de Arbitrios for Ayuntamiento de Austin. 3 pp.
Ordenanza for the municipality of Austin. 7 pp.
Land document signed by Austin as a witness. See Streeter 225, 225A, and 226.
Pages 33-34 from 71-page imprint. Streeter 12.
Census document for the State of Coahuila and Texas.
Letter to T. F. Leaming regarding his map and empresarial matters. 4 pp.
Letter to Governor Viesca regarding the illegal settling of families in Austin's colony. 3 pp.
Printed safe conduct certificate for entry into Austin's colony, signed Samuel M. Williams. Streeter 20.
Promissory note to Austin to be used by settlers in regards to their land title. Streeter 10.
Title to one quarter league of land to James Lindsey. 2 pp.
Order for disbursement to Samuel May Wiliams.
Election document certified by Austin.
Third page article regarding Austin and the Fredonian Rebellion. 4 pp.
Legal designation of municipalities in the Departments of Saltillo, Monclova, and Bejar.
Second page article on Austin's efforts toward a separate statehood for Texas. 4 pp.
Letter to Thos. F. Leaming regarding separate statehood for Texas. 3 pp.
Text of a letter by the Representative of the State of Coahuila and Texas regarding Austin's meeting with Santa Anna. Streeter 786.
Letter to George Fisher regarding his status in prison, Beale's colony, etc.
Military discharge of John S. Black.
Signed by Henry Smith, James W. Robinson, William H. Wharton, partial signature of E. M. Pease. Streeter 84.
Loan to the people of Texas. 4 pp. Streeter 1233.
Texian loans.
No. 271, issued to Robert Triplett.
No. 516, issued to Alfred Penn.
No. 489, issued to Paul Anderson.
No. 594, issued to James M. McCulloch.
No. 454, issued to James N. Morrison.
No. 396, issued to Thomas D. Carneal.
No. 449, issued to Lewis Whiteman.
No. 554, issued to Wm. F. Gray.
Letter to C. E. Hawkins introducing Col. Edward Harcourt.
Voucher for expenses as Commissioner.
Receipt to Austin.
Document relating to fundraising in New Orleans for Texian cause.
Letter to unnamed individual regarding efforts as Commissioner, independence for Texas.
Includes address by Stephen F. Austin. 56 pp. Streeter 1260.
Announces the death of Stephen F. Austin. Streeter 129A. Accompanied by printed portrait of Austin, signed and dated Dec. 18, 1836.
Austin family crest. Painted paper portrait of Austin.
The Ruth Pennybacker Collection consists of the teaching aids she used in class, photocopies of plays, news clippings, and programmes. Included in the collection is a scrapbook crafted in 1967 by her students, colleagues, and friends as a tribute to Miss Pennybacker.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series contains 24 folders, arranged alphabetically. The majority of these contain news clippings, correspondence and plays used as part of the classroom curriculum.
This series contains 25 folders, arranged alphabetically. These folders consist of spiral notebooks and correspondence from the Play Readers group, organized chronologically from 1978 - 1981. Also contained in this series are poems, programmes and a copy of Pennybacker's 1934 thesis.
This series contains a scrapbook dated 1967, that contains letters, notes and tributes to Miss Pennybacker. Included in the scrapbook are letters written by Joseph M. Doggett, Philip G. Hoffman, John C. Allred, John Q. Anderson, Vassar Miller, and Kenneth Carbajal.
The Cunningham Papers are divided into 9 series and 10 boxes making up approximately 9 linear feet spanning the years 1914 to 1964. The papers include correspondence, press releases, news clippings, programs, bulletins, speeches, expense accounts, campaign lists, strategic plans and organizational materials.
These materials document Mrs. Cunningham's heavy involvement in the National American Woman Suffrage Association, the Texas Equal Suffrage Association, other state suffrage associations, politics, political campaigns, anti-vice, labor, war efforts, Democratic Party Activity plus documentation of her activities in later years.
Perhaps of most interest is a collection of suffrage material from each county of Texas during 1918 & 1919. This is a very important time for the Texas Equal Suffrage Association in particular as it culminated in legislative approval for woman suffrage in state primary elections in 1918 and in universal woman suffrage in 1920.
The Faculty Organizations records primarily consist of organizational minutes. The records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series consists of 10 folders in chronological order and date from 1954-1963. The 1959 Constitution and By-Laws of the organization is also included with this series.
This series consists of eight folders and date from 1951-1959.
This series consists of 30 folders and date from 1969-2005.
George Fuermann, 1918-2001, collected or produced published/printed materials; legal, financial and government documents; photographic materials; creative works; maps; works of art; artifacts; research files; correspondence and typescripts that comprise 41 boxes, approximately 17 linear feet, of regional history-related materials.
The collection is arranged in two sub-groups, consisting of a large collection of historical documentation, 1836-1988, in 40 boxes, as well as a limited set of Mr. Fuermann's correspondence, typescripts and other professional papers, 1952-2001, in 1 box.
Three appendices to this finding aid are available. Please contact Special Collections for more information.
This series is contained in 4 boxes (plus the addition of a few oversized [OVS] items). It consists of published items that include promotional publications, serial publications, newspapers, clippings, broadsides and postcards. All materials chronicle the historical development of Texas and/or Houston.
(See Appendix I for Item List)
Contained in 3 boxes, this series includes early Houston, as well as Republic, State and Confederate era, Texas materials. Houston documents range from “Public School” and “Board of Aldermen” to the office of “Scavenger” as well as most other existing departments. The bulk of items date from the last half of the Nineteenth Century. Signatures include those of Augustus C. Allen, Sam Houston, Anson Jones, Albert Sidney Johnston, Ashbel Smith and J. B. Magruder, among others.
Over 800 still photographic images, in 23 boxes, document the history of Houston and her enterprise. The bulk of the series consists of photographic reproductions, although a few original prints are included. Broad subject categories of the “research photograph files” sub-series include notable people, places, buildings, streets, fires, bayous, parks and various industrial development, such as oil, construction and aviation. Other sub-series are “panoramas,” “aerial views” and “photographs used in publications.”
(See Appendix II for Item List) Creator's Arrangement
(See Appendix III for Item List) Creator's Arrangement
Housed in 1 box, these Texas and Houston based materials include sheet music (cataloged), poetry, reprints and typescripts. The series excludes visual arts and the works of Mr. Fuermann.
Special Collections, cataloged; JK 4816.T47 1974
Nineteen original historical maps that chart the development of Houston, Harris County and Texas. These have all been separated from the collection and cataloged -- call numbers are indicated.
Call No.: G4034H8A15 1910.D68
Call No.: G4034.H8:2H4 G46 1890 .M35
Call No.: G4034.H8 1884 C58 1955
Call No.: G4034.H8 A15 1960 H42
Call No.: G4033.H35G46 1912 .R62
Call No.: G4034.B74G46 1884 G73
Call No.: G4034.P34G46 1884 M36
Call No.: G4061.P33 1874 .R35
Call No.: G3861.P3 1879.M35
Call No.: G3991.P3 1881 S68
Call No.: G4031.P3 1884 R33
Call No.: G4030 1840 .A8
Call No.: G4030 1860 .C68
Call No.: G4030 1866.C74
Call No.: G4030 1876 .G73
Call No.: G4031.P3 1900 .M35
Call No.: G4031.P2 1923 R35
Call No.: G4060 1853 .S6
Most of these artistic renderings are signed prints or original works and are contained in 1 oversize box. The bulk of the original works is in watercolor, wash, pen or pencil. Much of the work was done expressly for one or another of Mr. Fuermann's publications; by such artists as John Biggers, Lowell Collins and Buck Schiwetz.
This box of eleven items consists mostly of pins, medallions and ribbons as well as one City of Houston flag.
These 14 boxes of research files contain a wealth of information consisting of clipped articles, obituaries, correspondence, photographs, ephemeral items and the signatures of such prominent local notable as Miss Ima Hogg, Mayor Oscar Holcombe and Jesse H. Jones. The series consists of 47 biographical files on local individuals and families, as well as 133 subject files on local organizations and entities.
This small sub-group consists of 11 series in 3 boxes. It includes biographical information, professional correspondence, information about the above described Historical Collection, typescripts of Fuermann articles and books, dust jackets and pictorial proofs, as well as notes and collected photographs for a planned but unpublished volume, This is Houston. Of most interest in this sub-group, perhaps, is a selection of Fuermann typescripts with editing and accompanying letters in the hand of both J. Frank Dobie and Walter Prescott Webb.
(See Sub-Group I, Series C, Boxes 18-21)
The Collection contains materials related to the book, A College Forum, edited by Joseph Doggett, Everett Gillis, and Rosa Bludworth, published by The Odyssey Press in 1963. In the Preface, the editors' arrived at what they considered a special design for their work, seeing a twofold need: "the need of the student for readings that will stimulate his own expression; the need of the instructor for a text that is adaptable to either a subject matter or a types of approach."
The Galveston Hurricane Photograph collection comes from a scrapbook of pictures taken by Rex Dunbar Frazier, a Stone & Webster Engineering representative called in to collect storm damage data and photographs.
Photos were removed from an acidic scrapbook for preservation purposes, yet folder captions were copied exactly from those provided. Folder captions below have been abbreviated as necessary.
The photos date primarily from August 18, 1915, although many are undated. Later photos show repairs. Dated photographs have been filed chronologically, and undated photographs have been loosely grouped into categories of Buildings/Streets, Railroads (general), Interurban Railroad, Causeway/Temporary Trestle, Drifting/Damage, Miscellaneous People, and Miscellaneous.
Dead cattle between Texas City and Virginia Point
The U.H. Statistics 1947-1970 contains various reports issued by the university. Some of the topics of these reports include Teacher Load Reports, New Students, Statistics, Coordinating Board Reports, and Grade Distribution Reports.
A Study of Administrative Management
The University of Houston Chapter of the American Association of University Professors Records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of documents directly related to the organization including the AAUP Constitution, minutes, bank statements, letters, correspondence, membership lists, and newsletters. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Forms part of the University Archives.
The Bessie Alva Griffiths Collection contains photographs, memorabilia, and papers such as programs and miscellaneous correspondence and receipts. The dates of items in the collection range from 1888-1940. Original order of materials has been adhered to whenever possible. Correspondence and receipts are arranged in chronological order.
Included among the papers in the Griffiths Collection are materials belonging to Griffiths' roommate Katherine Dick, who may have been associated with the Harris County School for Girls, and a manuscript which may have been written by Bessie Griffiths.
Photographs in the collection date primarily from the 19th century, and include photographs in the carte de visite and cabinet card formats, and tintypes. Many of the photographs were removed from their original housing for preservation purposes. Photographs in folders 1-11 were removed from envelopes, photographs in folders 12-21, folders 22-36, and folders 42-67 were removed from three different albums. Original order has been maintained, and descriptive information such as names has been noted in the folder listing below. Folders 37-41 contain miscellaneous materials such as newspaper clippings and handwritten prayers which were removed from the second photograph album.
Included among the papers in the Griffiths Collection are materials belonging to Griffiths' roommate Katherine Dick, who may have been associated with the Harris County School for Girls, and a manuscript which may have been written by Bessie Griffiths.
This small section contains a few pieces of jewelry, ticket stubs, dance cards, flag and program.
This set of papers documents Leon Hale's long and prolific writing career that began in 1946. It is divided into ten major categories with the bulk of the material being comprised of Mr. Hale's book projects, daily columns, letters from readers, and miscellaneous articles. The materials are housed in sixteen boxes, including fourteen record cartons and two oversized boxes. Each of the categories is prefaced by a detailed description.
The materials in this section are housed in three cartons and represent eight different volumes published by Leon Hale. The materials include correspondence with editors/publishers, business/legal documents, notes, outlines, manuscripts, typescripts, proof copies, reviews, promotions, letters from readers and even screenplays. The bulk of the material represents Hale's work on two novels, Bonney's Place and Addison.
This section includes articles and short stories, other than his regular column, authored or edited by Mr. Hale from 1946-2000. Included are manuscripts, typescripts and printed items.
These folders hold pages from nine different legal pads that were filled with manuscript notations by Leon Hale. The content appears to be random, varied, and without date or formal arrangement.
Includes 3 different address books and 22 calendars. Only one of the address books is dated, 1976. The calendars span the years 1973-1981 and 1988-2000. The two varieties of wall calendars typically note column subjects, appointments and appearances for each day.
This set of photographs falls roughly into two categories: file or publicity shots of Mr. Hale and shots of people, places, things, and events that interested or inspired him in his work. The bulk of the photos are black and white. Those photos not of Hale appear to have been shot by him.
These are letters sent to Leon Hale over more than forty years. Most of them are laudatory but a few are critical. Many of them are one-time missives from loyal readers but there are as many as 145 from the most prolific of the correspondents. Some also appear to be from friends or acquaintances. Among them are letters from John Henry Faulk and Louie Welch.
These two scrapbooks were carefully constructed from the clipped articles authored by Leon Hale during his 1948 tenure as Houston Post, Farm and Ranch Editor.
The bulk of Leon Hale's columns, printed over 54 years, will be found in this group. The acidic and crumbling newsprint clippings have been photocopied for the sake of preservation, and arranged chronologically by year. Six binders are filled with typescripts of various columns that have been thematically grouped by the author.
There are eight wall-plaque type awards presented to Leon Hale, together with two small wooden carvings crafted by him.
This large group of materials is composed of items collected but not created by Leon Hale. It includes books, articles, subject files, newspaper sections, posters, work created by others, audio and video recordings. These materials were collected on the basis of their importance as information, ephemeral memorabilia or project documentation.
The Professor Joseph S. Werlin Papers contain extensive newspaper and magazine articles relating to international issues of interest to Dr. Werlin. Topics include, but are not limited to, politics, racism, nationalism, agriculture, birth control, and many others. Most of the materials date from the 1940s and 1950s, there is also a limited amount of personal material, including correspondence and photographs, in the collection.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series consists of three folders related to Professor Werlin's various activities at the University of Houston.
This series contains twenty-one folders of correspondence between Dr. Werlin and various family members. Included in this section are also a limited number of family photographs. The folders have been arranged in chronologically.
This series contains eleven dated speeches and sixteen undated speeches given by Professor Werlin between the years 1934 and 1942. This series is divided into two sub-series the first is arranged chronologically by date of the speech. The second set of speeches was not dated and thus was arranged alphabetically.
This series contains forty-four folders dating from 1942 - 1954, arranged alphabetically. Included in this series are notes, correspondence relating to international study abroad opportunities at various universities including Cuba, Guatemala, and Mexico.
This series contains seventy-four folders of newspaper articles and other research materials used by Professor Werlin for his classes. The sub-series is arranged by the course number, with the original folders titles maintained including the vernacular of the period. The newspaper articles cover a wide variety of topics including: education, religion, races, urbanization, birth control, old age, among many others. These materials relate to Professor Werlin's Sociology courses 231 to 573.
This is the largest series in the collection and contains one hundred ninety-one folders, arranged alphabetically. A partial listing of topics include: history, political and sociological issues around the world including England, Ireland, Germany, Pakistan, Japan, China, and Russia. Many of these articles appear to be taken from newspapers and magazines from the country of origin. Original folder titles were maintained including the vernacular of the period.
The Professor John Q. Anderson Papers contain extensive materials including letters from former students, a diary, transcripts and other materials relating to American folk beliefs, medicine, and folksongs along with newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, notes and many other items.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series contains 24 folders and is divided into 2 sub-series: Personal and Family Background, and Family Scrapbooks. The Family Scrapbooks contain a variety of material kept by Professor Anderson and include family photographs, newspaper clippings and programs and are arranged chronologically. For additional personal items, please see boxes; 15, 16, 17, and 18.
This series contains 88 folders and is divided into Personal and Professional Correspondence, arranged chronologically. Personal Correspondence contains 61 folders and is sub-divided into three sub-series; Correspondence from Loraine Epps, (his future wife), Correspondence During Illness and After Death, and Personal Correspondence. Unfortunately, letters written by Professor Anderson to Miss Epps were lost. Professional Correspondence contains 27 folders and is arranged alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains 31 folders and is arranged alphabetically by folder title. Items of special interest to the researcher would include files marked Biographical Information.
These 55 folders contain newspaper articles of interest to Professor Anderson and are arranged alphabetically by folder title and cover a wide variety of topics including, but not limited to, Buried Treasure, Fold Medicine, Outlaws, and Superstitions, among many others. The folders marked Miscellaneous contain newspaper articles on a wide range of subjects.
This series contains files related to books written or edited by Professor Anderson. The materials are arranged alphabetically by title of work. Some files contain more comprehensive records of the final work than others do. These files include, but are not limited to, drafts, galley proofs, correspondence, page proofs, research notes, and various versions of the final work. The titles included in this series concern 11 works by Professor Anderson and include: Campaigning with Parson's Texas Calvary, John C. Duval, First Texas Man of Letters, Early American Humor, The Liberating Gods, Louisiana Folklore, Medicine and Disease, Tales of Early Texas, Texas Folk Medicine, Texas Surgeon in the CSA, and With the Bark On.
For further materials related to The Liberating Gods, please see oversized Boxes 18, and 19.
This series contains 51 folders related to classes taught by Professor Anderson. The materials include course notes, newspaper articles, cartoons, and songs, related to various topics of interest to Professor Anderson. This series came as a distinct group and the original order and folder titles were maintained.
This series consists of reprints of articles published by Professor Anderson. It contains 23 folders, arranged alphabetically by title.
This series contains 22 folders of notes, ideas, research materials, and partially written pieces found in the Collection.
This series contains 5 folders. Each folder is titled by the name of the work which was under review. Included are published newspaper articles, correspondence, and other related materials.
Southwestern American Literature Association. The purpose of the organization was to "promote the study of literature and culture of Southwestern United States." The Association contracted for the 1972 publication; A Bibliographical Guide to the Study of Southwestern Literature. Professor Anderson served as the first Chairman of the organization.
The collection contains files related to Kestenburg's teaching and activities at the University of Houston as well as his academic interests.
Forms part of the University Archives.
This series contains 52 folders related to Professor Kestenberg's association with the University of Houston. Included are materials concerning his participation with the Faculty Association, Faculty Club, and Phi Kappa Phi. The folders are primarily arranged alphabetically by subject or organization title, then chronologically if necessary. Dates in this series range from 1948-1981.
This series is the largest in the Collection and contains two hundred and seventy two folders. Folders are in alphabetical order by subject, then chronologically where necessary. The material in these folders contains items used by Professor Kestenberg in his classes and as research for his own purposes. A large portion of this series includes material related to Germany (history and politics) and to the United Nations Association.
This collection includes letters and documents signed by Sam Houston between 1813 and 1861. There are also several undated items as well as two letters written by Sam Houston's son, Sam Houston, in 1868 and 1871 following his father's death. There are a total of 43 items in the collection with the bulk of the items dating between 1836 and 1861.
Materials generally relate to Houston's political activities at the time. Items written or signed during 1836 relate to the Texas Revolution or Houston's role as president of the Republic of Texas. Materials from the 1840s were signed during his tenure as President of the Republic of Texas or Senator from Texas. During the 1860s materials relate to his activities as governor of Texas. Most items are financial or business papers from the government for which Houston worked.
This collection contains 203 items and includes items dated from 1858 to 1900. The bulk of the items are dated between 1869 and 1881. The collection consists for the most part of correspondence, with some legal documents and tax papers.
In addition to Mary Jones' letters, there is correspondence from Sallie (Jones) Ashe, her husband R. G. Ashe, Henry Cowing, Anson Jones, Cromwell Anson Jones, Joseph E. Field, and J. J. McMillan.
The collection has been arranged in two series: Correspondence and Legal Documents. The Correspondence series includes 189 items, dating from 1858 to 1882. Mary Jones' letters, the bulk of the collection, are arranged chronologically. Following these letters are letters received from others, which have been arranged alphabetically by sender and chronologically within the group.
Transcripts are available in a binder in the reading room, as well as in the digital collection.
Most of the correspondence is from Mary Jones, primarily to her son Cromwell Anson Jones. These letters date between 1866 and 1882. The letters discuss local affairs and Mary Jones' life, as well as family members (Samuel Edward and Sallie S.) and friends. Many of the letters relate to problems with land claims and taxes on lands held by Mary Jones following the death of her husband.
[With undated, unsigned note]
There are only 15 items in the series. Included are property taxes, land deeds, powers of attorney, and other miscellaneous legal papers. The materials date from 1858 to 1900, with the bulk of the items between 1890 and 1900.
This collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists of Audit Reports, Correspondence, Board Minutes, Proposals, Reports, Rules and Regulations, Resolutions, and Statements.
Forms part of the University Archives.
Arranged alphabetically, these records contain 122 folders of materials dating from 1967-1983. Overall, the original folder order has been maintained. This collection contains a wide range of materials relating to the administration of the Coordinating Board, Texas College and University System. The records consist of Audit Reports, Correspondence, Board Minutes, Proposals, Reports, Rules and Regulations, Resolutions, and Statements.
University of Houston W.W. II Clippings contains newspaper articles that mostly relate to the University of Houston during the years 1939-1944. Some of the topics covered in these articles include the separation of the university from the Houston school system, Frontier Fiesta, and the university's contributions to the war effort through the offering of special war-related subject in areas including classes in navigation, diesel engine repair, map interpretation, aircraft engine repair, first-aid, and radio service.
The collection is separated by month with the folders placed in ascending order. Four folders containing undated material may be found at the end of the collection.
Forms part of the University Archives.
The collection is separated by month with the folders placed in ascending order. Four folders containing undated material may be found at the end of the collection.
The George Kirksey Papers contain clippings, manuscripts, some correspondence, scrapbooks, and numerous photographs. Materials are dated between 1910 and 1971. The collection comprises 18 manuscript boxes and has 3,363 items.
The collection is divided into several series, based on a particular function of Kirksey's life or by form (photographs, scrapbooks, and miscellaneous items). The collection arrived at the University of Houston Special Collections unorganized for the most part. The collection had been created by friends of Kirksey's who cleaned out his apartment following his death and boxed up materials they deemed of possible value, which they sent to the University of Houston Libraries.
The series are primarily arranged by the work in which Kirksey was involved. The series include: Personal, Writing, Military, Public Relations, KTRK, Civil War Round Table, Houston Sports Association, Travel, Photographs, Scrapbooks, and Miscellaneous. Within each series, the materials are organized alphabetically and chronologically where applicable. Apart from the numerous clippings, most of the collection relates to his work as a United Press International correspondent, his service in the Air Force during World War II, and his work with the Houston Sports Association.
A large part of the collection is comprised of newspaper clippings and pages removed from various magazines. Kirksey was a voracious reader and during his life he collected numerous magazine clippings and pages on a variety of subjects. Unfortunately, Kirksey did not label his clippings for date or publication. Many of the clippings have been replaced by photocopies because of the deterioration of the original clippings. The clippings, tear sheets, and photocopies have been arranged within each topical series based on the subject of the clipping.
Kirksey also collected maps and brochures from different places he visited. These items have been retained for the most part, although a large set of National Geographic maps from the late 1950s and early 1960s have been removed from the collection. Again, these items have been placed within the appropriate series where applicable.
There are almost 700 photographs in the collection. Many of the photographs focus on Kirksey's service in the Air Force during World War II, the Astrodome, and the Colt .45s/Astros. A few of the photographs, related to baseball, have captions created for the press. Unfortunately, Kirksey did not label any of the photographs he kept, making identification of personal photographs and travel photographs nearly impossible. The photographs have been organized by topic, which corresponds to the other series. Some photographs are duplicated in the scrapbooks and may have a year or place assigned to them.
This series includes personal items such as Kirksey's social security card, marriage license to Ethel Shutta, and the newspaper notice of his divorce from Billie Joyce (Smith) Kirksey. There are 959 items in the series. Much of the series consists of items related to his interests in the Civil War and the Houston Civil War Round Table, military interests, baseball (not related to the Houston Sports Association), golf, and improving his writing. This series includes materials on Kirksey's brief venture into auto racing. For photographs related to Kirksey's personal life, see the Photographs series under the heading "Personal."
Materials in this series include manuscripts, clippings, and notes for stories by Kirksey. There are 260 items in the series. The types of writing include sports stories, travel accounts, short stories, notes, and other materials. The material divides roughly into sports articles written by Kirksey in the 1930s and travel stories from Kirksey's travels in Europe in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
This series contains materials relating to Kirksey's service in the Air Force during World War II and Kirksey's activities in the Air Force Reserves. There are 445 items in the series. Most of the materials in the series are Kirksey's military records and official publications listing his commendations. In addition, there are several memos sent to and from Kirksey regarding his reinstatement in the Air Force Reserves to obtain service points. There is also a sub-series of items relating to Kirksey's military interests. Many of the records and memos exist in multiple copies. See the Photographs series under the heading "World War II" for photographs taken during Kirksey's service in the Ninth Air Force.
This is a very small series with 18 items, dated 1946 through 1947. Included are press releases promoting Kirksey's public relations firm and other related materials.
This series includes information related to the early history of KTRK, Channel 13. There are 69 items in the series. Materials include correspondence, audit reports, minutes from 1952-1953, clippings related to the sale of KTRK, and financial information both for the television company and for Kirksey's interest in the company.
This series includes newsletters, lectures, and other materials relating to the Houston Civil War Round Table, which was started by Kirksey. The series has 103 items, dating from 1954 to 1967. In addition, there is a box of uncataloged pamphlets regarding the Civil War included in the series. It has been given a separate box number which is indicated in the folder title listing.
This series includes materials on Kirksey's work to bring baseball to Houston as part of the Houston Sports Association. There are 659 items in the series. There are a variety of materials in the series, including reports, press kits, pamphlets, correspondence, clippings, and announcements. Included are materials about the Continental League, the Astrodome, Colt .45s/Astros, problems with baseball, leaving the HSA, selling his stock in the HSA, and the HSA's work in trying to bring in football to oppose Bud Adams' Oilers. Some of the people included in the series are R. E. "Bob" Smith, Paul Richards, and Roy Hofheinz. There is also a box of newspapers related to the Houston Sports Association, which has been given its own box number. Photographs related to the Colt .45s, the Astros, and the Astrodome are in the Photographs series under the heading "Baseball."
This series includes clippings and tear sheets of articles related to travel in different countries that Kirksey planned to visit. The series also includes a few clippings of articles written about Kirksey's travels, primarily in Europe during the late 1960s and early 1970s. There are 161 items in the series. The manuscripts for articles written by Kirksey are included in the Manuscripts series.
There are 670 photographs in this series. The photographs are arranged as follows: Personal, 163 photographs; World War II, 311 photographs; Baseball, 173 photographs; Travel, 23 photographs; and Miscellaneous, 15 photographs. Kirksey made no attempt to identify the people or places in the photographs he kept. The photographs have been sorted by subject where possible and have not been arranged in any particular order beyond this. There is no folder listing for the photographs. They have been arranged by box and are numbered only for security measures. The Personal photographs include family photographs, portrait photographs of Kirksey, photographs taken for his work with General Brereton, and other photographs of Kirksey that were not baseball- or war-related. Also included are photographs relating to Kirksey's auto racing team. Additional photographs of this nature may be found in the 1931-1938 scrapbook. The World War II photographs include shots taken during Kirksey's service in the Ninth Air Force. Photographs include shots of Kirksey and his comrades, abandoned military vehicles, destroyed bridges, paratroopers, gliders, Air Force bases, destroyed buildings, and other war-related photographs. The shots are not identified by place. Kirksey was in Egypt, England, France, and Germany during his service in the Air Force from 1942 to 1945. The Baseball sub-series contains photographs of the Houston Colt .45s (later the Houston Astros), the Astrodome and Houston Sports Association activities. Many photographs taken for the publicity of the Colt .45s and the Astrodome are included in this group. There are also photographs pre-dating Kirksey's involvement with the HSA, which include Kirksey with various baseball players. Additional photographs may be found in the 1951-1968 scrapbook. The Travel photographs were all taken during Kirksey's trip to India, China, and other eastern countries during 1933. Identified, larger copies of the photographs may be found in the 1931-1938 scrapbook. The Miscellaneous photographs include some photographs in which the subject could not be identified, as well as photographs that had been autographed and sent to Kirksey. Included among the Miscellaneous photographs are autographed pictures from various dignitaries and sports figures. Additional photographs related to Kirksey's travels in 1933, Ethel Shutta Kirksey, sports writing, and the Houston Sports Association may be found in the Scrapbooks.
There are nine scrapbooks in this series, dating from 1920 through 1968. Materials in the scrapbooks include newspaper clippings, tearsheets, invitations, identification cards, and photographs. Much of the material is neither dated nor identified. The first six scrapbooks cover Kirksey's life, primarily the 1920s through the 1960s. The remaining scrapbooks were compiled by Billie Joyce (Smith) Kirksey. The first scrapbook is in poor condition. Items include carbon copies of Kirksey's earliest sports articles, clippings of many of his articles from the 1920s and early 1930s, Christmas cards, tickets and badges from various sporting events, and photographs. Extreme caution must be used while working with this scrapbook. The second scrapbook includes clippings of stories written by Kirksey, photographs related to his travels in 1933 and his family, and letters received by Kirksey. There are also miscellaneous items. Items are dated 1931-1938. The third scrapbook covers Kirksey's military career during World War II and covers 1942 through 1945. Most of the items are newspaper clippings written by Kirksey or about Kirksey. Included are stories about his service and announcements of his awards. There are also numerous photographs taken during his time in service. Some of the photographs have captions included. The fourth scrapbook focuses on his work with the Houston Sports Association but includes materials on Kirksey's travels in Europe and on Kirksey's auto racing team which he started in 1966. The scrapbook includes clippings about the Colt .45s, articles written by Kirksey, photographs, press material, letters, and ephemeral items. Items are dated 1951-1968. The fifth scrapbook is titled, "Houston Professional Football, Inc." and includes clippings regarding Kirksey's work to bring professional football to Houston. All clippings are from 1959. Some items are loose. The sixth scrapbook is titled, "Anti-Baseball Book, 1965." In it are clippings detailing the perceived demise of baseball. There are also loose clippings that have been kept with the scrapbook. Clippings are dated 1964 through 1965. The three remaining scrapbooks were compiled by Kirksey's second wife, Billie Joyce (Smith) Kirksey. These include clippings related to Billie Joyce's activities at the University of Houston while she was a student. The first scrapbook includes the 1945-1946. The second scrapbook focuses on 1946-1947. The third focuses on 1947-1949. Items included are newspaper clippings, graduation announcements, wedding announcements, invitations, cards, and favors. These two scrapbooks are in poor condition.
This series includes items of an ephemeral nature, collected in one box for safekeeping. Items are not dated. There are 9 items in this series. Included are a handkerchief, a copper-colored piece of metal, two attaché cases, two wallet-sized photograph holders, and a binder. There is also a certificate that has been placed in the box because it is oversized, as well as an envelope containing coins from various European countries.
The collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order and in general the original order has been maintained. Materials in the collection include departmental records, extensive press clippings, and videos. The collection dates from 1948-1997 with most of the materials dating from 1977 to 1997. The collection is organized into four series: Faculty Vitas, Departmental Records, Press Clippings, and Audio Visual Materials. The collection did contain a sizable amount of photographic materials in all formats (slides, negatives, prints, contact sheets, etc), that have been separated to form the UH Historic Photographs Collection. The Office of University Relations also contained a large number of faculty vitas that were transferred to the Faculty Vita Records: 1969-066.
This series contains one hundred and seventy-four folders, arranged alphabetically. It consists of City Council Awards given to faculty members, annual reports, reports to the community and various other files used within the department. Materials in this series date from 1948-1997 and are arranged alphabetically.
This series contains twenty-seven folders dating from 1977-1980, arranged alphabetically. The folders contain materials including invitations, guest lists, receipts, memos, and other items related to the preparations necessary for these events. The original order has been maintained except where items were obviously miss-filed.
In Memoriam are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each record contains information (education, birth and death dates, place of birth, and positions held) for faculty, staff, and benefactors, associated with the university.
In Appreciation and In Resolutions are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each record contains information for each person or benefactors associated with the university, and outline the major accomplishments of those persons or entities.
In Resolution are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual or organization. Each record contains information for faculty, staff, and benefactors, associated with the university and outline the major accomplishments of those persons or entities
Silver Anniversary Certificates are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual and are divided into three categories; Faculty and Staff, Former Faculty Members, and Recognized Faculty. Each record contains information for faculty and staff associated with the university and outlines the major accomplishments of the individuals.
Individual certificates.
S. W. Henderson Floy P. Soule A. W. French E. M. Schuhmann Jules A. Vern M. A. Miller A. L. Kerbow
Frederic Browne Mrs. Bessie Ebaugh Dr. C. F. Hiller Dr. Alva Kerbow Dr. Louis Kestenberg C. F. McElhinney L. Standlee Mitchell Miss Zelda Osborne Warren Rees Mrs. Lillian Warren Dr. Joseph S. Werlin Mrs. Ruth Wikoff
This series contains ninety-one folders dating from 1977-1997, arranged chronologically by month. The articles relate to a variety of university topics including, athletics, special events, awards and many others. However, the amount of informational content within the clippings varies greatly. Some articles are extensive or in-depth in nature where others may include only a brief mention of the university or a direct quote by a faculty member. The original order was chronological which has been maintained except where items were obviously miss-filed.
This series consists of a variety of audio and video tapes including one-inch video, three quarter inch Umatic, VHS, one-eighth inch reel to reel audio, audio cassettes, and several others. Most of them contain public service announcements relating to various university departments or events. The photographs that were originally part of this series have been removed and placed with all other University of Houston historic photographs.
The Alvin Romansky Papers include photographs, correspondence, documents, printed materials, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, and memorabilia related to the life and civic pursuits of Alvin Romansky, his father Joseph Romansky, and his uncle Thomas Flaxman. The bulk of the material (principally that related to Alvin Romansky) dates from the 1950s, but a significant amount of material related to Thomas Flaxman dates from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
The first two boxes in the collection contain loose papers and photographs. Material related to Alvin Romansky comes first in these boxes, followed by material related to Thomas Flaxman, and then material related to Joseph Romansky. The third box holds a silver loving cup presented to Thomas Flaxman by the Directors of No-tsu-oh Association. The fourth box holds portions of two scrapbooks.
Two publications were removed from this collection and cataloged:
The Houston clubber. Houston, Tex.: Houston Club, 1958. Spec Coll HS2725.H68 H684
The new Houston Club. Houston, Tex.: The Club, [1955]. Spec Coll Ovs HS2725.H68 H68 1955
Special Collections holds a large number of materials that were donated to the department by Alvin Romansky, including rare books, and art books and catalogues. In addition, Special Collections also holds a large collection of fine art prints which were donated by Alvin Romansky. A large sub-collection of these prints are cartoons from the French Third Empire and the Franco-Prussian War.
The Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution, also holds some microfilmed material on Alvin Romansky. Included is a transcript of a recorded interview with Romansky, conducted by the Archives of American Art. For more information, see their web site:
http://artarchives.si.edu/start.htm
This series includes correspondence from various people to Alvin Romansky, arranged alphabetically by sender. Notable correspondents include Oveta Culp Hobby, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Coke R. Stevenson.
This series is comprised of photographs, documents, and clippings related to Alvin Romansky, which are arranged chronologically, with the exception of two unidentified photographs (Folders 14 and 15) that have been placed at the end. Included are a baby picture of Alvin Romansky, a printed program from a Houston memorial service for Warren G. Harding, and the charter of the Harris County Heritage Society. A 1924 diploma from the Prosso Preparatory School is in an oversized folder.
This series consists of black and white snapshots taken during a trip to France and Italy. Most of the photographs record visits to the printing workshops of Fernand Mourlot, Georges Visat, and Maeght. Also included are an image of Pablo Picasso's ceramics and pottery kiln in France, and one of Friedensreich Hundertwasser and his wife.
This series contains black and white snapshots of displays of African sculpture from an exhibit at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston.
This series contains two photographs and a photocopied obituary for Joseph L. Romansky, Alvin Romansky's father. Joseph Romansky worked for the Flaxman Dry Goods Co., which was owned by his brother-in-law, Thomas Flaxman.
This series contains materials related to Thomas Flaxman, who was Alvin Romansky's uncle. At various times, Flaxman was president of Flaxman Dry Goods, head of the Port Houston Land and Townsite Company, and vice-president of the Houston Farms Development Company. Flaxman was also a founder of the Houston Country Club and the Houston Club, served on numerous civic boards, and was general manager of No-Tsu-Oh, an annual Mardi Gras-style carnival held in Houston before World War I.
Included are photographs, copies of newspaper clippings, the memorial book from Thomas Flaxman's memorial service, and a tablet with biographical or autobiographical notes about Thomas Flaxman. No-Tsu-Oh materials include a report from the directors of the 1914 Deep Water Festival, a sheet of stationery from that festival, and a silver loving cup that was presented to Thomas Flaxman. Also included are a number of photographs of the Houston Country Club, and the Houston Golf Club which formerly stood on its site.
This series contains materials from two scrapbooks compiled by Alvin Romansky. Because the scrapbooks were fragile and in poor condition, most of the materials have been removed and placed in acid-free folders. Intact portions of two scrapbooks with their original newspaper clippings may be found in Box 4.
The scrapbook series includes the original charter and by-laws of the Contemporary Arts Association, photographs of modern furniture and silverware, exhibit catalogs and local arts publications, and many newspaper clippings. The clippings have been photocopied onto acid-free paper for preservation purposes.
The University of Houston conducts a self-study in accordance with the requirements of the Commission on Colleges and the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Traditionally they take place over a two year period and involve a broad cross-section of faculty, staff, and administration of the University. These studies are comprehensive and analytical in nature with the goal of identifying both the strengths and weaknesses of the university and to make recommendations to improve the performance of the institution.
This series consists of materials related to the University of Houston Self-Study done during the 1960s. It contains 59 folders and is arranged in alphabetical order with the original folder titles.
This series consists of materials related to the University of Houston Self-Study done during the 1970s. It contains 3 folders and is arranged in chronological order with the original folder titles.
This series is divided into two sub-series; Principal Committee and Subject Files and consists of materials related to the University of Houston Self-Study done during the 1990s. The Principal Committee Records contains 11 folders and is arranged in alphabetical order with the original folder titles.
This series consists of materials related to the University of Houston Self-Study done during the 1990s. It contains 36 folders and is arranged in alphabetical order with the original folder titles.
This series consists of 22 files related to institutional effectiveness, 111 files listed as appendices (A-R) arranged alphabetically, and 21 files listed as miscellaneous background files which were left in original alphabetical order.
The San Jacinto Collection contains original documents and prints relating to the Battle of San Jacinto in the Texas War for Independence. The documents contained in this collection include promissory notes, pay scrip, discharge papers, printed portraits, and correspondence. Many of the individuals associated with the battle of San Jacinto are represented, including Sam Houston and David Burnet. Most of the documents in the collection bear the names or the signatures of individuals who fought in the battle or were significant to the history of the Republic of Texas.
The collection is organized chronologically, with undated materials being filed at the back.
This set of 21 photographs was taken by an unknown individual between April 16 & 21 - immediately after the 1947 explosion in Texas City. At some point the photos were taken from a small album. We have the notes concerning each photo made on the facing album pages but no additional information. Please see the "Historical Note," above, for more information about the deadly explosion.
The Donald Barthelme, Sr. Architectural Papers cover the period 1924 to 1997 and are comprised of his architectural drawings; business and personal files; memorabilia; photographic prints, negatives, and slides; as well as lecture notes and other materials from his teaching career. The collection occupies 35 linear feet and 15 drawers of flat files, and is stored in 43 boxes and 92 oversize folders.
Barthelme’s architectural drawings document his professional practice, from his earliest commissions in Galveston in 1933, to his last, in Houston, in 1964. Of the 1,883 sheets of original drawings, the majority are (a) studies and preliminary drawings and (b) working drawings. Few presentation drawings survive, but many have been preserved in photographs. Of particular interest are the materials for his two largest projects, the Adams Petroleum Center and West Columbia Senior High School, because of the large number of colored-pencil renderings, which he did to study different design ideas. Missing are projects that he may have done in other offices, such as his Philadelphia, Dallas, Staub, and defense work. With the exception of materials for a few early projects, for the Adams Petroleum Center, and for the Kellaway house, most of Barthelme’s business correspondence and project files are believed to have been destroyed when he closed his office in 1963.
Barthelme is remembered as a teacher and a philosopher. He left extensive lecture notes for his courses at the University of Houston and memoranda that outlined his new curriculum for the Architecture Department at Rice University. His lecture notes illustrate his ideas, but the best organized statement of his philosophy of architecture is found in his writings. Of special interest are his manuscript for a book, a handwritten critique of the manuscript by an unknown reviewer (probably his son, Frederick), and an attempt to articulate his ideas on architecture in a lengthy 1975 letter to John McGinty, then head of the Houston Chapter of the A.I.A.
Other writings show the breadth of Barthelme’s interest in education. In October 1959 he appeared at a conference at the University of Michigan in which prominent architects discussed Dr. Lloyd Trump’s study for educational reform, funded by the Ford Foundation. Barthelme presented his own proposals for a new secondary school curriculum and a schematic design for a high school. The conference proceedings were published the next year. Barthelme also prepared 359 slides in connection with this presentation, which are part of his photographic materials.
As an enthusiastic amateur photographer, Barthelme took thousands of pictures and often did his own processing in a home darkroom. This large photographic collection documents his architectural practice and his travels in Mexico. It is comprised of 1,309 black-and-white prints¬¬ (most 8 x 10 and larger); 999 4 x 5 black-and-white negatives; 67 35mm black-and-white negatives; 840 2 ¼ x 3 ¼ black-and-white negatives; 49 2 ¼ x 3 ¼ color glass-mount transparencies; and 2,856 35mm color slides. In many cases a print has a corresponding negative, but these materials are not cross-referenced. Many pictures of Barthelme’s buildings are known to be the work of Dallas photographer Ulric Meisel, but unless noted otherwise, Barthelme is presumed to be the photographer on the items in this series.
Among the photographic materials is a bound scrapbook of photographic prints and clippings of Barthelme’s architectural projects. It also includes important awards, certificates, and licenses, although some that had become loose were removed to a separate folder. The scrapbook comprises 120 prints (mounted and unmounted) and 72 leaves, or 116 total items.
When the Department of Special Collections processed Barthelme’s papers, his heirs allowed the department to create digital files of a portion of their large collection of family photographs, which were retained by the heirs. This collection, covering the period 1930 to 1986, includes pictures of Barthelme, his wife, and his children, mostly in and around the family home in Houston. Approximately 150 sheets of photographic negatives are preserved in 2,887 digital images on CD-ROM, with record prints in a binder. This is intended only as a study collection for scholars. The images are owned by the Barthelme estate and may not be copied or reproduced without its written permission.
Barthelme’s professional career is further recorded in his extensive file of newspaper and magazine clippings. Personal materials include biographical information, student work, interviews, and correspondence, as well as artifacts and memorabilia.
The Personal Papers includes records generally created outside of Barthelme's professional life, such as biographical information, student work, interview transcripts, and correspondence. This series contains 28 folders arranged in rough chronological order.
The Writings and Speeches Series contains files related to Barthelme’s writings in draft or typescript form and talks to student and professional groups. The latter includes materials related to an important conference on educational reform at the University of Michigan in which Barthelme was one of the principal speakers. (See Scope and Contents Note for details.)
Barthelme kept an extensive file of newspaper clippings about his career. These are stored in five folders arranged in chronological order, followed by two folders with oversize clippings, also in chronological order.
This series contains reprints of magazine and journal articles written by or about Barthelme.
Barthelme saved brochures, exhibition catalogs, and conference programs of special interest.
This series contains magazine articles that Barthelme saved for reference.
Memorabilia include Barthelme’s personal drafting equipment and other effects, contained in Boxes 2 and 3. Professional awards and a scrapbook of the high school newspaper he edited (now in very fragile condition) are contained in oversize flat box 4.
This series contains complete issues of magazines and journals that Barthelme saved because they pertained to his career or contained matters of special interest. The issues are in chronological order and are contained in three oversize flat boxes.
Barthelme served as an architecture professor at the University of Houston from 1946 to 1958 and from 1963 to 1973. This series contains his lecture notes, studio problems, and other resource materials from this period of his career arranged in subseries by topic, including the following: (1) Barthelme’s notecards for talks and class lectures, contained in a small box, with each talk separated by a divider; (2) Gradebooks, school curricula, course descriptions, and other organizational material, arranged in rough chronological order; (3) Articles and other reference materials Barthelme quoted or used in his lectures, arranged chronologically within each of his subject headings, using his titles, and for the most part following his order; and (4) Barthelme’s class and lecture notes, arranged chronologically within each of his subject headings, using his titles, and for the most part following his order.
Barthelme was William Ward Watkin Professor of Architecture and Chairman of the Architecture Department at Rice University from February 1959 to May 1961. This series also includes an extensive collection of his memoranda to Rice faculty, including materials about his new curriculum, and related material.
This series contains Barthelme’s architectural drawings. They fall into four categories: Studies and Preliminary Drawings; Working Drawings; Prints; and Maps and Surveys. All are large format and are stored in flat files in oversized folders. Some projects contain examples of more than one category of drawings. Note that in 1955 the name of Sweeny Negro School changed to “Carver Elementary School” and West Columbia Negro School became “Charlie Brown School.” The schools appear under both names in Barthelme’s files and in this finding aid.
Personal notes and bid specifications for many of Barthelme’s projects have survived and are contained in this series. In letter-size and legal-size format, many were originally stored with the drawings but have been separated from the oversized materials.
This series contains correspondence and other files related to Barthelme’s architectural projects in letter-size or legal-size format.
Barthelme’s photographic materials consist of black-and-white prints in various sizes, including 8 x 10, 11 x 14, and 16 x 20; and black-and-white negatives in 4 x 5, 2 ¼ x 3 ¼, and 35 mm. Most of the color images are 2 ¼ x 3 ¼ glass-mount transparencies and 35mm color slides. Many of the pictures of Barthelme’s projects are known to be the work of Dallas photographer Ulric Meisel, but unless indicated otherwise, Barthelme is presumed to be the photographer on all of the items in this series.
In the category of “photographic prints” is a scrapbook of prints and clippings about Barthelme’s projects that he kept during his career. Many of the prints have separated from the leaves of the scrapbook, and because he later removed the spiral binding, the order of the items is approximate. Important awards, certificates, and licenses that had become loose were removed to a separate folder for such items, but duplicates or those that were securely mounted remain in the scrapbook. These include the A.I.A. Award of Merit for St. Rose of Lima Church (1949); the “Texas Architecture 1952” exhibition Award of Merit for Sweeny Elementary School; The School Executive Competition for Better School Design, Special Feature Award for Sweeny Elementary (1952); and the Houston Chapter A.I.A. Award of Merit for Sweeny H.S. additions (undated). The scrapbook comprises 120 prints (mounted and unmounted) and 72 leaves, or 116 total items.
This series consists of digital files of part of Barthelme’s collection of family photographs, which were retained by the heirs. Approximately 150 sheets of negatives are preserved in 2887 digital images on CD-ROM, with record prints in a binder. This is intended only as a study collection for scholars. The images are owned by the Barthelme estate and may not be copied or reproduced without its written permission. Barthelme’s original binder and negative sheet numbers are noted.
In March 2005, the Houston Mod organization sponsored an exhibition at the Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture concerning Barthelme's Bousquet House (1940). At the time, the house, at 3981 Del Monte Drive in Houston's River Oaks neighborhood, was the last surviving Barthelme-designed residence in the city. It was demolished later in the year. The exhibit coincided with efforts by a class from the University of Houston to document the house for the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS). The exhibit featured a booklet, detailed photographs and drawings of the house in 2005, a scale model, the HABS drawings, and reproductions of Barthelme's original drawings. Houston Mod donated the exhibition materials to the University of Houston Libraries, Department of Special Collections, where they were added to the Donald Barthelme, Sr. Architectural Papers. The booklet is cataloged separately, but the exhibition boards and model are contained in the following boxes.
Barthelme’s personal library of 59 books was separated from the Donald Barthelme, Sr. Architectural Papers and transferred to the University’s William R. Jenkins Architecture & Art Library, where they were integrated into its Closed Collections and Special Collections. Barthelme earlier donated most of his books to the University’s Architecture Library in 1977 (the name of the library changed in 1986).
The Steven Ford Brown Heart's Invention: On the Poetry of Vassar Miller Papers consist of materials related to the publication of the book. This includes correspondence, typescript drafts, and galley proofs.
This collection consists of materials in a wide variety of formats that document the history of the USS Houston (CA-30) and her crew. A significant portion of the material dates from the period 1929 to 1945. There is also a large quantity of material that dates from the 1980s to the present.
The materials have been divided into four major categories:
• Core Material is the material most frequently requested by researchers, and includes Photographs, Negatives and Slides, Correspondence, Diaries, Blue Bonnets, Deck Logs, Reports, Statements, Rosters, and POW Camp Records.
• Printed Material includes Citations, Certificates, Programs, Booklets and Pamphlets, Documents, Newsletters, Articles, and Clippings.
• Literary Productions include Personal Accounts, Typescripts/Historical Accounts, Oral Histories, Commemorative Booklets, Poetry, and Speeches.
• Other Material includes primarily material in formats other than papers or photographs, such as Scrapbooks, Invitations, Menus, Memorabilia, Film and Video Recordings, Audio Recordings, Maps and Ships’ Plans, Miscellaneous Artworks, Framed Items, and Plaques.
Books and commercial videotapes have been removed from the collection and incorporated into the library’s cataloged holdings. These may be found by searching the UH Libraries’ catalog by author, using the phrase “Cruiser Houston Collection.”
Additional materials related to the history of the USS Houston (CA-30) and her crew may be found in the William A. Bernrieder Collection. A permanent exhibit of materials from the Cruiser Houston Collection is on display in the M.D. Anderson Library of the University of Houston. The UH Libraries also maintains a digital exhibit on the USS Houston (CA-30) online at http://info.lib.uh.edu/sca/digital/cruiser/cruiserh.htm.
This series contains black & white and color photographic prints, including some oversize and panoramic prints. The photographs are arranged into sub-series by general subject. Within each sub-series, the photographs are in alphabetical order according to the subjects of the individual photograph. Some of the photographs are copies of prints from institutions such as the National Archives or the U.S. Naval Institute.
Box 4 includes a binder of photographs taken by a professional photographer at the 2002 USS Houston Survivors Association Reunion. If reproduced in print or on a website, or otherwise publicly displayed, these photographs must include the following credit line: Copyright Arturo Sanchez, Frank White Photography.
This series includes a variety of negatives and slides, as well as digital copies of all negatives. The negatives are in a variety of formats and sizes. Most of the negatives in this series were donated by Otto Schwarz and the USS Houston Survivors Association, and many of them are copy negatives of other images.
Box 4 contains CD-ROMs of digital images that were created by Special Collections staff to provide better access to the negatives. Patrons visiting the reading room in person may view the CD-ROMs on a laptop or at a computer workstation in our reading room. A printed list of the contents of the negatives is also available. The negatives were scanned at their original size in order to serve as a positive image contact sheet for easier browsing. Because the digital images on the CD-ROM are so small, patrons wishing to order reproductions of are recommended to have their print, slide, or photograph made directly from the original negative. Unfortunately, we cannot make these images available in digital format to people who are not visiting the reading room in person.
Correspondence is divided into four sub-series by format: Postcards from POW Camp, Telegrams, Letters, and Envelopes. The Postcards from POW Camp series includes postcards written by Houston crew members while they were being held as prisoners-of-war. These postcards were highly censored by the Japanese military. The Postcards from POW Camp, Telegrams, and Envelopes sub-series are each arranged by sender. If there are multiple items from the same sender, they are further arranged by receiver. If there are multiple items from the same sender to the same receiver, they are further arranged by date.
The Letters sub-series is organized somewhat differently. It contains several large groups of letters that all pertain to one individual or family: William C. Batchelor, Jr., Henry Nickel, Claude E. Parker, Frank Pistole, William Slough, and the family of Francis B. Weiler. These groups of letters are arranged separately from the rest. Each group is arranged by sender, then by receiver, and then by date. The rest of the letters fall under the General heading, where they are arranged by sender, then by receiver, and then by date.
The letters of the family of Francis B. Weiler are photocopies of materials in the collection of the Naval Museum, U.S. Naval Academy.
Diaries are organized alphabetically by the name of the person who kept the diary. Original diaries from the 1940s are very fragile. Patrons in our reading room will be given a photocopy of Brigadier Arthur Varley’s diary to use in order to protect the original.
The Blue Bonnet was the shipboard newsletter for the USS Houston (CA-30) crew. This series includes Blue Bonnets from the ship for the years 1933 through 1941, although not all issues are available. The Blue Bonnets from the 1930s are very fragile, and most of them have been photocopied. Patrons in our reading room will be given photocopies of some issues to read rather than originals.
In the late 1940s, Otto Schwarz of the USS Houston Survivors Association revived the Blue Bonnet as that organization’s newsletter. Newsletters from the survivor’s organization include issues from 1960 through the present.
Between 1991 and 1997, a separate newsletter was put out by the Next Generation (a related association for the children and other family members of survivors). That newsletter was discontinued, and as of 1998, the Blue Bonnet has served as the organ for both the Survivors Association and the Next Generation. Recent copies of the Blue Bonnet can be found on the web site http://www.usshouston.org.
As defined by the Naval Historical Center, “A Navy ship's deck log is a daily chronology of certain events for administrative and legal purposes.” The USS Houston (CA-30) deck logs in this collection are photocopies of the originals, which are held by the National Archives at College Park, Maryland. The deck log for February 1942 was reconstructed by Lt. Cmdr. Harold S. Hamlin and submitted to the Bureau for Naval Personnel in September 1945.
A few deck logs for the USS Mount Vernon and the USS Tulsa can be found in the Documents series.
This series includes primarily official government reports, among them Action Reports and Battle Damage Reports for the USS Houston (CA-30) and the USS Houston (CL-81). Reports are arranged alphabetically by title.
This series includes official statements and casualty affidavits given by Houston crew members following their liberation from POW camps. Statements are arranged alphabetically by the name of the person who gave the statement, or the subject of casualty affidavit.
The rosters in this series are sorted alphabetically by the type of people listed, such as crew members from the USS Houston (CA-30), Lost Battalion Association members, or prisoners-of-war.
This series includes original records that were created in the prisoner-of-war camps. One set of records was created at the hospital where the POWs were treated following their liberation. Many of these records are extremely fragile.
Additional information related to the POW camps may be found in the Rosters series.
This series includes citations and other commendations for military service, arranged alphabetically by recipient.
The certificates in this series, which are primarily for military or educational achievements, are arranged alphabetically by recipient.
Programs are arranged alphabetically by their title or by the subject of the event.
Booklets and pamphlets are arranged alphabetically by their creator, title, or subject.
Documents are arranged alphabetically by their title or subject.
Newsletters are arranged alphabetically by the name of the organization that created them.
Articles are arranged alphabetically by title. In many cases, the entire magazine or newsletter that the article may be found in is in the folder.
The clippings were organized during two different periods using two different methods. The first batch was arranged by topic, while the second batch was sorted only by date. The researcher looking for information on a particular topic should check not only the topical folders but also the date-only folders to make sure he has found all related clippings.
Due to the fragility of newsprint, all of the newspaper clippings have been photocopied onto less acidic paper.
This series contains accounts of events related to the USS Houston (CA030) and the POW experience, as recollected by individuals who directly experienced them. Most of these personal accounts were given many decades after the original events.
This series contains both typescripts prepared for potential publication, and fact-based accounts of various aspects of the USS Houston (CA-30) story. Materials are arranged alphabetically by author.
This series contains two bound transcripts of oral history interviews done with Houston survivors by the University of North Texas Oral History Program. Patrons are welcome to read the oral histories in the Special Collections reading room, but anyone wishing photocopies of the transcripts must contact the University of North Texas Oral History Program directly.
Most of the booklets in this series are bound, photocopied collections of articles, photographs, poems, etc. that were created by Houston survivors to commemorate their experiences. They are arranged alphabetically by creator.
Poems are arranged alphabetically by author.
Speeches are arranged alphabetically by author.
The scrapbooks in this collection are very fragile and bulky, and many of them contain loose items. Because of their condition, they cannot be photocopied, and decisions about photographing them will be made by the curator on a case-by-case basis. Materials may not be removed from scrapbooks for photocopying or photography.
Scrapbooks are arranged alphabetically by creator.
The Memorabilia series contains primarily objects that are related to the USS Houston (CA-30), the prisoner of war camps, or the USS Houston Survivors Association. The ship’s bell, the ship’s model, and two crew member uniforms are on permanent exhibit in the library.
This series is divided into the following three formats: VHS videotape, ¾” videotape, and film. Within each format, the recordings are arranged alphabetically by title or subject. The film series includes the nitrate original of a 1930 newsreel, which has been transferred to both 35mm film and VHS videotape for preservation.
Commercially released videotapes, such as motion pictures or documentaries, have been removed from the Cruiser Houston Collection and cataloged for greater access. To located these videos in the UH Libraries Catalog, search the catalog by entering “Cruiser Houston Collection” as the author, and limit the results of the search to the material type “Video.”
Patrons wishing to view videotapes in our reading room should contact Special Collections in advance so that we may arrange for a video monitor.
This series includes cassette tapes and one audio reel, arranged alphabetically by title or subject.
Framed items include paintings, photographs, and other types of materials. Many of these items are on permanent exhibition in the library. Some framed items have been reframed or rematted for preservation purposes. They are arranged alphabetically by title or subject.
In some instances, donor information on framed items has been difficult to locate. Special Collections welcomes any additional information that will enable us to properly credit the donors of paintings and other framed items.
The collection is divided into five series: Short Writings, Short Fiction, Novels, Promotional Materials, and Personal Materials.  The first three series are arranged in alphabetical order by title and the last two series are arranged in chronological order.
This series includes articles, an artists' book, essays, a libretto, poetry, notes, notebooks and her UH thesis Psychic Kissing, which evolved into the novel The Lord's Motel. Items, both published and unpublished, are in alphabetical order by format and then by title.
Includes correspondence and interview of Gail Donohue Storey in Opera American Style, Strides, Vol. 1, 1983.
1985 trip - brochures, maps, tourist information
This series contains short stories as well as rejection letters from various publishers.  The arrangement is alphabetical by title.
This series contains typescripts, computer discs, and proofs of The Lord's Motel, God's Country Club, and I Promise Not to Suffer (originally titled "I Never Cared Much for Nature).
This series contains reviews, excerpts, articles, quotes, photographs, and biographical information arranged in chronological order.
includes pamphlet of 17th Annual Book & Author Dinner
Study for book jacket cover for God's Country Club.
This series consists primarily of correspondence, financial records, and photographs.
Holiday letters and poems by Gail Donohue, 1978-81; and by Gail Donohue and C. Porter Storey, M.D., with attached photos, 1992-2003
This folder contains photographs of Gail Donohue and Donald Barthelme (circa 1985). Others of Gail Donohue Storey, Porter Storey, Creative Writing Program graduate students, family, friends, childhood home and other residences. Also photos of Gail Donohue Storey by Marion Barthelme for book jacket photo.
The collection contains drama, dance, opera, and symphony programs from performances given in North America and Europe. The programs are arranged chronologically from 1947 to 2001 and are housed in sixty-three binders. Ticket stubs and review clippings are attached to most of the programs with a few bearing autographs.
The collection contains three manuscript boxes of materials related to Barthelme's tenure as editor of Forum. Researchers may be interested in the Forum collection of materials post-dating Barthelme's time as editor.
The Kenneth Patchen Collection contains items which were collected by Ronald Dunkin, a friend of Miriam and Kenneth Patchen, and a fellow resident of Palo Alto, California. The collection was purchased by the University of Houston Libraries in 1977 from William P. Wreden, a book dealer in Palo Alto. The collection contains correspondence, photographs, publicity and promotional materials, books, picture-poems, sound recordings, newspaper clippings and miscellaneous items.
The collection was received with chronological item descriptions composed by Ronald Dunkin. In order to facilitate access, the items in the collection were categorized according to type of material and placed by date within category. The books, publications, and sound recordings have been cataloged and are accessible through the UH Libraries' online catalog.
This series is primarily comprised of correspondence between Miriam Patchen and Ronald Dunkin. There are a few letters from Kenneth Patchen as well as some brief notes from poet contemporaries of Patchen's. The letters and notes are addressed to Ronald Dunkin.
This series includes several black and white photographs which picture Kenneth Patchen, Miriam Patchen, Richard Bowman, Ronald Dunkin and the Patchens' cat, Sitwell. Most of the photographs in the collection were taken at the Patchen residence in Palo Alto, California.
This series contains three original Patchen paintings.
This series contains three of Patchen's loose leaf poems, a photo montage advertisement, and two portfolios of his picture poems. The two portfolios entitled Glory Never Guesses and A Surprise for the Bagpipe Player contain silk screen reproductions of Patchen's original manuscript pages.
This series includes promotional and publicity material such as publishers prospecti, brochures, and advertisements. This portion is further subdivided into sections dealing with Patchen's books, checklists, the play Don't Look Now, jazz-poetry, poetry reading and art. The subdivision designated books is arranged according to title. The sections are in chronological order at the item level.
This series includes pamphlets and brochures relating to events which Patchen took part in, or were held in his behalf.
This series contains newspaper clippings which are primarily from Palo Alto publications. The clippings address Patchen's jazz poetry various fund raising efforts to for his back surgeries, interviews with the Patchens and articles published upon and after his death. This section is organized alphabetically according to the publication name and subdivided by date.
This series contains assessments of Kenneth Patchen's poetry. The reviews are from publications such as the New York Times and Saturday Review. These items are arranged alphabetically by publication name.
This series contains miscellaneous items such as endorsed checks, grocery lists, and holographic notes. There is also a tape recording of Miriam Patchen reading Kenneth Patchen's poetry. These items are arranged in chronological order.
The Jan de Hartog Papers, 1943-2005, consist of manuscript material, correspondence, scrapbooks, photos and other material documenting the life and career of Jan de Hartog (1914-2002). The papers are divided into three series: (1) Works, (2) The Hospital Materials, and (3) Career.
The Works series contains manuscript material, including notes, manuscript and typescript drafts, galley proofs, play scripts, television scripts and dictation tapes for The Captain, The Hospital, William and Mary and various other works. The Captain subseries includes notes, various typescript drafts of the work, the publisher's copy of the work, galley proofs, tape recordings, and page proofs. Many of these items are heavily edited by either the author or the copy editor. The Hospital subseries contains notes, outlines, drafts, and galley proofs of the work. Additional documents relating to the response to The Hospital and to Jan and Marjorie de Hartog's work at Jefferson Davis Hospital is included in The Hospital Materials series.
The Hospital Materials series includes notes, clippings, speeches, correspondence, photos and scrapbooks related to the de Hartogs' Hospital volunteer work at Jefferson Davis Hospital as well as the publication of and response to de Hartog's 1964 book, The Hospital. Outgoing correspondence is arranged by date; incoming correspondence is arranged alphabetically. An index of correspondents is available; contact Special Collections for more information.
The career series contains clippings, correspondence and commemorative material related to de Hartog's writing, teaching, and theatrical productions. Books, personal effects, and sound and video recordings have been removed from the papers and cataloged separately. They are accessible through the UH Libraries online catalog in the subfield of "Jan De Hartog Papers".
Three letters from Paul Bowles, written from Tangier, Morrocco to Irving Stettner, 1983-1984.
The Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at the University of Texas at Austin holds a larger collection of Paul Bowles' papers and his personal library, as well as the papers of Jane Bowles and Jane Bowles biographer, Millicent Dillon.
Sources:
Paul Bowles Collection Finding Aid
The Authorized Paul Bowles Web Site
Bacon, a skilled worker, is allowed to enter Cuba through Havana, 14 October 1848.
The bulk of material in this collection is typescript manuscript drafts of the novels Come Back, Lolly Ray, Emma Blue, and Daddy's Girl. Most of the drafts are photocopies of the original typescript manuscripts, with corrections in the author's hand, and the rest are original typescript manuscripts with corrections in the author's hand. Some of the drafts are copy-edited.
This collection includes preparatory materials for the three novels such as lists of possible titles, an outline and character notes, drawings, and photographs. A small amount of correspondence received by Beverly Lowry from her agent and her editor is included.
The Beverly Lowry Collection also includes galley proofs and page proofs for the three novels.
The John Updike Writers in Society Lecture Collection includes letters from Updike addressed to Carla Cooper, Executive Director of University Relations, and David Farmer, Head of Special Collections, regarding arrangements for the author's campus visit and interviews. Also included in the collection are the opening remarks of Robin Downes, Director of Libraries, for the luncheon honoring Updike, and an excerpt signed by the author from his first novel The Poorhouse Fair. The remainder of the collection consists of letters from Updike to the University of Houston written after his visit. The Special Collections and Archives Department of the University of Houston has over two hundred of Updike's novels and collections of short stories, poetry and criticism, including first and later editions, foreign editions, broadsides and private press books, many of them signed by the author.
The bulk of the material in this collection is typescript materials of The Sword and the Eye, The Sword and the Tower, Beyond Gravity, Beyond Humanity, and Tit for Tat. Correspondence is composed of personal and professional associates of Justin Leiber and includes letters from Noam Chomsky.
Letter from Charles Bukowski, written from Los Angeles, California to John Martin. March 12, 1974.
This collection includes materials collected or received by Warren Roberts during the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s. There are 262 items in the collection, dating between 1959 and 1985. The majority of the materials relate to activities of the Grolier Club, of which Roberts is a member, and publications for D. H. Lawrence works, symposia, and related activities.
Among the D. H. Lawrence materials are issues of several newsletters, including D. H. Lawrence News and Notes, Lawrence Country News, and the Newsletter of the D.H. Lawrence Society of North America. There are also notices for lectures and discussions regarding James Joyce and his works.
Additional materials include publications and brochures for conferences of rare book librarians and scholars, as well as sales information for books of interest to Roberts.
Materials have been arranged alphabetically by subject (Grolier Club, James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, etc.). Single items unrelated to other materials have been grouped together within the Miscellaneous folder. Within each subject, items are arranged chronologically, with one exception. The book notices for D. H. Lawrence materials have been arranged alphabetically by title. Wherever possible, materials have been dated using a perpetual calendar.
The second box of material, Miscellaneous Oversize, includes three notices for new books on Texas history, a lecture announcement, and an issue of the University of Texas newspaper, The Texas Times, from August 1972 which is dedicated to Walter Prescott Webb.
A large number of print items donated to Special Collections and Archives by Warren Roberts are available for use in the reading room. These items have been cataloged and may be located using the library's online catalog. In addition, numerous broadsides and larger ephemeral items have been cataloged.
Aside from its obvious use as a significant source for those persons interested in the petroleum industry, this collection covers a wide range of other research topics. Business and economic historians will be interested in the extensive financial records and correspondence of such companies as the Petroleum Iron Works Co., Producers Oil Co., the Texas Company, Farmer's Petroleum Co., and the American Republics Corporation. The collection includes records of the land division of the Shadyside subdivision, accounts of the construction of Cullinan's Shadyside residence and of the building and maintenance of his Pasadena farm. These particular documents provide a wealth of information for architectural and agricultural historians. Finally, historians of the City of Houston will be able to make use of the records of Cullinan's integral involvement with the improvement of the city through such efforts as the Houston Negro Hospital, the Northside Belt Railway, and the founding of the Museum of Fine Arts. Political scientists will find his participation in politics on the local, state, and national level as well as his involvement in Irish affairs and other international issue of particular interest.
This collection consists of five letters from Sir Edwin Arnold to Mr. William Yates Thompson dating from 1887-1896. Letters discuss writing and travel.
Other collections of Arnold's papers can be found at Rice University and the Houghton Library at Harvard University.
Sir Edwin Arnold correspondence,1887-1899, MS 127, Woodson Research Center, Fondren Library, Rice University: http://www.rice.edu/fondren/woodson/mss/ms127.html.
Sir Edwin Arnold Papers, Houghton Library, Harvard University: http://oasis.harvard.edu:10080/oasis/deliver/~hou01753.
This brief record describes a collection that is not fully processed. No further descriptive information is available at this time. Please contact Special Collections for assistance with this collection.
Princeton University's Rare Books and Special Collections holds another collection of Lehmann Family Papers: http://libweb.princeton.edu/libraries/firestone/rbsc/aids/lehmann.html.
This collection contains typescript drafts, galley proofs, and page proofs of Donald Barthelme's novels, collected works, short stories, and other writings, plus collages and collage stories created by Barthelme. One of the richest aspects of the collection is the large set of letters and cards from Barthelme's writing friends and colleagues. The collection also includes about a dozen photographs of Barthelme. In addition, material related to Barthelme's teaching career is incorporated, notably student works that Barthelme received during his years in the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston.
Each series is prefaced by a detailed description.
Novels and Collected Works, 1970-1990
This series traces the preparatory stages for Barthelme's published works, which were primarily collections of short stories or novels. The material related to a single work may include typescripts, page layouts, galley proofs, page proofs, dust jackets, and other formats. Materials are arranged in order of their production, beginning with typescripts and ending with dust jackets. Some of the short story collections include bound volumes which collected typescripts, photocopied drafts, and the printed pages of previously published stories together. Prior to 1975, Barthelme rarely kept early drafts of his work.
Short Stories, [1959]-1987
This series includes short stories in manuscript or typescript form. Barthelme rarely kept early drafts of his work, so many of these stories are in a finished or nearly finished stage and show minimal editing by the author. Some galley proofs, tear sheets, and paste ups are also included.
Plays, 1974-1999
Typescripts and other materials related to plays by Donald Barthelme or adapted from his work.
Poetry, undated
Two fragments of poems by Barthelme.
Non-Fiction, 1972-1988
A variety of non-fiction material is gathered in this series. Most of it is essays written for publication, such as the pieces published anonymously in the "Notes and Comments" section of The New Yorker. Some pieces not for publication are also found in this series, such as introductions delivered for other writers and eulogies. Material is primarily in the form of typescripts, galley proofs, and tear sheets.
Related Artwork and Collage Stories, [1970]-1988
This series includes the artwork and "collage stories" that Barthelme created by gluing engravings, woodcuts, and pieces of clip art to posterboard or other backgrounds. Some loose collage pieces have been reglued to their backgrounds using reversible wheat starch paste.
Correspondence written to Donald Barthelme has been arranged alphabetically by the last name of the sender. Whenever a single correspondent had six or more letters in the collection, a separate folder was created. There is one folder of correspondence from Donald Barthelme to others.
Interviews and Biographical Articles, 1972-2001
An interview with Barthelme was published in the Summer 1981 issue of the Paris Review as part of its well known series of interviews with writers. J.D. O'Hara taped the initial conversation with Barthelme, transcribed the tape, and sent the transcript to Barthelme. Barthelme heavily reworked the transcript to make an entirely different draft. This series contains various drafts of the interview and some related correspondence. See also the J.D. O'Hara folder in the Correspondence series.
Reviews, 1964-1990
Reviews of Barthelme's works, primarily from newspapers and magazines. Reviews on acidic newsprint have been photocopied onto less acidic paper.
Articles and Reviews, Foreign Language, 1969-1984
Reviews of Barthelme's work in languages other than English.
Clippings, 1974-1989
Articles about Barthelme, the Houston/Texas writing scene, and some of his friends.
Criticism/Papers on Barthelme, 1975-1986
This series contains literary criticism and student papers about Barthelme's work.
Creative Writing Program, University of Houston, [ca. 1980s-1988]
This series contains materials related to Barthelme's teaching career at the University of Houston, including some of the assignments he gave his writing classes. The folder containing class enrollment and grades is closed to the public for privacy reasons.
Graduate Program in Writing, The City College of New York, [ca. 1970s]
One folder of material related to Barthelme's teaching career at the City College of New York.
PEN American, 1976-1989
Barthelme was a member of the writers' association PEN American Center, serving as its vice president for the period 1977-1979. Most of the material in this series relates to the planning of the 48th International PEN Congress, which was held in New York City in 1986. Copies of papers that were delivered on the topic of "The Writer's Imagination and the Imagination of the State," are included.
Awards and Events, 1972-1984
Awards and certificates received by Barthelme, including the National Book Award and the French Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, and related materials.
Contracts, 1975-1997
Royalties, 1978-1986
This folder contains royalty statements.
Miscellaneous, 1987
This folder contains only a single membership roster for the Texas Institute of Letters.
Photographs of Donald Barthelme alone or with his wife or fellow writers. Of special note is the photograph from the "Postmodernists Dinner" arranged by Barthelme in 1983, which includes leading writers who were described by critics as postmodern in style.
Most notable in this series are biographical notes about Donald Barthelme, and a photocopy of his appointment book from 1979.
Graduate Students, Creative Writing Program
Works submitted to Barthelme by students in the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston.
Undergraduate Students, 1984-1988
Works submitted to Barthelme by undergraduate students at the University of Houston.
Primarily typescripts and photocopies of works by other writers. A galley proof of William Gass' On Being Blue is included in this series.
Clippings spanning the run of Messinger's "Big City Beat" column make up the bulk of this collection. The collection contains photographs documenting Mesinger's social life, friends and family, a small amount of correspondence from family and friends, and two audiotapes.
Letter from artist and writer Paul Alexander Bartlett, written from Tucson, Arizona to Chicago philanthropist Anita McCormick Blaine. June 11, 1933.
A collection of Bartlett's photographs and drawings is held at the Benson Latin American Collection at University of Texas-Austin.: Paul A. Bartlett Drawings and Photographs of Mexican Haciendas, 1940-1973, Benson Latin American Collection, General Libraries, University of Texas at Austin. (https://txarchives.org/utlac/finding_aids/00006.xml)
A collection of Bartlett's literary papers is held at the Young Library, University of California, Los Angeles:
Paul Alexander Bartlett Papers (Collection 2106). Department of Special Collections, Charles E. Young Research Library, University of California, Los Angeles. (http://www.oac.cdlib.org/findaid/ark:/13030/ft596nb0gx)
Letter from Marcel Breuer, written from New York City to University of Houston Professor of Architecture Howard Barnstone. October 12, 1971. Regards letter from Barnstone asking for support in Hugo V. Neuhaus Jr.'s nomination to the AIA College of Fellows.
Single-page typescript letter from Senator Tom Connally, then chair of the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, to G.V. Brindley of Temple, Texas. Regarding the case of a missing serviceman, Lieutenant Lloyd L. Withers.
Letter from William Brumbelow, written from Chattanooga, Tennessee to his wife, location unknown. August 10, 1863. Describes war activity and family matters.
Holdings consist of two scrapbooks. Contain writings by Dudley, correspondence, maps, photographs, photostatic copies, mementos and artifacts.
The H. David Kaplan Performing Arts Collection contains correspondence, publicity photographs, photographs taken by Kaplan, programs, various arts publications, autographs and miscellaneous items such as ticket stubs and clippings. There are more than 1,000 color 35 mm. slides taken by Kaplan of opera performances and rehearsals by Houston Grand Opera. Additional oversized collages, posters, showcards, and artwork, along with several framed items, are housed separately. A large part of the collection is signed and many items are personally inscribed to H. David Kaplan. The materials are dated from ca. 1950 to ca. 1996, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1975-1985.
The collection has been retained in the order in which it was received from Mr. Kaplan and, with some modifications; it has been divided into several series. The series are arranged in the different areas of the arts in which Mr. Kaplan was involved or interested and an oversize/framed series which includes every aspect of the arts. Each series may be subdivided into 1-5 subsections including: correspondence, photographs, programs/publications, autographs, and miscellaneous. For ease of storage, the oversize and framed portions of this collection have been placed together in a series and shelved separately.
Correspondence has been separated and is organized alphabetically by the last name of the correspondent. Copies of H. David Kaplan's letters to individual correspondents are filed with their replies. In publicity photographs, the production, if known, has been noted on the reverse side in pencil.
Bound volumes of Performing Arts Magazine, Houston Arts Magazine, Tonight and Houston on Stage donated by Mr. Kaplan have been incorporated into the library's holdings. These may be found by searching the UH Libraries' catalog by journal title or by author, using the phrase "H. David Kaplan Performing Arts Collection."
Organized alphabetically by last name of correspondent; includes Christmas cards, personal notes, opera companies in Texas, U.S., invitations and magazine submissions.
The largest concentration in Kaplan's collection is devoted to Opera. The bulk of this series are autographed memorabilia, posters, articles, and performances related to Houston Grand Opera. Smaller sub-series include fliers, scripts, programs and schedules for Houston Grand Opera and other Texas and national opera companies. There are several folders with 35 mm. slides from Houston Grand Opera rehearsals and performances.
Photographic slides taken by H. David Kaplan during Houston Grand Opera and Texas Opera Theater rehearsals and performances.
The bulk of this series is made up of printed materials: fliers, invitations, news clippings, articles, posters and programs, as well as photographs primarily of Houston Ballet and other national dance companies.
The bulk of this series is made up of printed materials: fliers, invitations, news clippings, programs and schedules, as well as photographs relating to Houston Symphony, regional and national orchestras.
The bulk of this series is made up of printed materials: fliers, invitations, news clippings, and programs, for Houston (Chocolate Bayou Theatre, Alley Theatre, University of Houston, etc.) and regional theaters in the U.S.
Small series of news clippings, periodicals and programs devoted to film, American Film Theatre and presentation of "Napoleon" with Houston Grand Opera orchestra.
Printed materials (fliers, news clippings, periodicals, programs and schedules) for various performing arts venues, sports, community events and a scrapbook.
Large collection of posters promoting Houston Grand Opera, New York, and other state and city opera productions. Regional posters are in alphabetical order by city or state then by production.
Mounted performance programs of HGO, photographs/autographs of cast members, identified on reverse
Mounted performance programs of HGO, photographs/autographs of cast members
Posters for performances held at Jones Hall for the Performing Arts and by Houston Ballet.
Posters for performances held at Jones Hall for the Performing Arts and Texas Chamber Orchestra.
This collection contains posters for Alley Theatre, Main Street Theater, Stages, Texas Theatre Under the Stars performances, an invitation to Alley Theatre Gala, and two programs for musical theatre.
Posters, periodicals, an architectural drawing for Houston Grand Opera production and 2 collages are included in this series.
A vast number of books, monographs and reference works on physics, mathematics, philosophy and history of science compose the collection. There are thousands of reprints of original papers autographed by their authors. The manuscripts of hundreds of published and unpublished books, papers, and lectures from physicists, mathematicians, philosophers, and literati are in the collection.
Dr. Mehra's research in the history of 20th century physics has produced taped interviews with many famous scientists. The tapes compile discussions on physics, astrophysics, cosmology, quantum mechanics and quantum physics. Those interviewed include P.A.M. Dirac, W. Heisenberg, Richard Feynman, Julian Schwinger, Willis E. Lamb Jr., Murray Gell-Mann and numerous other Nobel Laureates and distinguished scientists. Other tapes record speeches by many Nobel Prize winners in physics. The information in these oral histories is unique.
The Personal Papers Series (correspondence) consists of two boxes of Jagdish Mehra correspondence. The files include personal correspondence both to and from Mehra and have been arranged alphabetically by the last name of the subject. Some correspondence related to a general topic was placed in alphabetical order by topic within the personal correspondence sub-series. Each folder is arranged chronologically. The correspondence files include letters from known scientists such as Einstein and from many universities around the world, including The University of Houston.
This series consists of four boxes of Jagdish Mehra's personal papers and memorabilia. The items in this series were arranged into categories and then placed in alphabetical order with folders arranged chronologically. The Jagdish Mehra Personal Papers Series includes such things as brochures and invitations from conferences and lectures, accountings of Mehra's personal purchases, and unpublished writings of both Einstein and Mehra.
This series consists of eleven boxes of lectures given by Mehra. The lectures were sorted by topic and arranged alphabetically. The Lecture Series includes Mehra's class lectures given at UCLA, lectures given at conferences around the world, lectures about Einstein and his works, and UNESCO lectures and lecture correspondence.
This series consists of seven boxes of articles written by Jagdish Mehra. The articles were arranged alphabetically by title. The Articles Series includes not only completed articles but drafts, correspondence related to the article, research materials, and notes. The articles in the series include articles about scientists such as Einstein and articles about different theories and applications of Physics.
The Symposium Series consists of three boxes and includes reviews and symposium. The reviews were arranged in alphabetical order and were placed before the symposium. The symposium were arranged alphabetically by either title or topic. The files related to each title or topic were also arranged in alphabetical order.
The Book Project Series consists of fifty-six boxes of materials for books written by Mehra. The series includes the material for six books, both published and unpublished. The book materials were organized by title and placed in order by publication date. The material for each book includes research material, project notes, manuscript drafts, typescript drafts, and some correspondence related to the development of the work.
To/From: Mehra Correspondence
To/From: Mehra Correspondence
Frieman, Lorraine
Frieman, Lorraine
Frieman, Lorraine
Frieman, Lorraine
Furman, James M.
Glanz, Delbert E.
Olszewski, E.
Sack, Jonas
Beiglbock, W.
De Stefano, Francesco
Kibble, T.W.B.
Strathdee, John
Rosewarne, Kathleen
Group Photos from the Institute International de Physique et de Chimie Fondes par E. Solvay
Top Right - Julian Schwinger and Jagdish Mehra, March 17, Top Left - Julian Schwinger and Jagdish Mehra, March 14, 1988 Bottom - Julian Schwinger, Edward Teller, and Jagdish Mehra
The collection is organized into four series: I. Correspondence, 1933-1985, (1? boxes) II. Works: Short Stories, 1940-1982 (4 boxes), III. Works: Plays, 1953-1977 (2 boxes), and IV. Career and Personal (1 box). The Correspondence series consists mainly of outgoing letters written to Miss Gladys Moore, a lifelong friend and correspondent. The Works series include published and unpublished drafts primarily of Short Stories and Plays. Career and Personal series includes book reviews by Karchmer, clippings, play production materials and miscellaneous items collected by Karchmer.
The bulk of this series is made up of outgoing letters from Sylvan Karchmer to Gladys Moore. The two corresponded on a regular basis between the years 1932-1981. There are a few incoming letters pertaining to Karchmer's work organized by date. This series does not include correspondence related to specific productions which has been filed with other materials related to that production.
This series includes published and unpublished short stories, by Sylvan Karchmer. Some works were published under his pseudonym, Lee Brian. Works are filed alphabetically by title whether published or not.
Karchmer's stage plays, radio plays and teleplays arranged alphabetically by title.
(3 copies)
This series contains 4 sub series: book reviews written by Sylvan Karchmer, clippings, play production materials and miscellaneous items collected by Karchmer.
These folders contain clippings, correspondence, photographs and publicity material related to the production of Karchmer's plays.
10 pieces
8 copies
Clippings and reviews, 38 pieces
Correspondence, 10 pieces
Publicity Material
publicity release, brochure
6 group photos of SK
7 pieces
11 pieces
6 pieces
8 pieces
6 pieces
These folders contain several items collected by Karchmer. Included are programs, faculty publications lists from University of Oregon, drawing of O. Henry's Museum in Austin, passenger list from R.M.S. Queen Elizabeth II, and Karchmer's student records from University of Texas.
The papers consist of typescripts, page proofs and other materials related to the work "Manned Spacecraft", reports and articles, as well as Purser's files of clippings and research materials.
This series contains typescript drafts, page proofs, transcripts, notes, drawings, charts, photographs and other research materials pertaining to Purser's work, "Manned Spacecraft"
This series contains Purser's reports to the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, a manuscript titled "On the Shoulders of Titans: a History of Project Gemini", reports titled "America's Next Decades in Space", "Post-Apollo Space Program: Directions for the Future", "The Apollo Spacecraft: A Chronology", and "TRW Space Log".
This series contains clippings related to aviation and space exploration. Publications include "Aviation Week" and "Collier's".
This collection contains the papers of Linda May, a Houston feminist activist who coordinated numerous national and global women's conferences and represented the American Jewish Coalition at the 1985 and 1995 United Nations' NGO Conference on Women. The series are arranged by organizational or institutional affiliation, and each contains photos, correspondence, press clippings, and literature. Linda May also has a book collection with Special Collections. For separated books, see Separated Materials note.
This series contains materials related to Linda May's role as a delegate to the United Nations' NGO Conference on Women in 1985 and 1995.
This series contains materials related to the National Women's Conference of 1977, the national Panel of American Women, the National Commission on Women, and the White House Conference on Families and Women.
This series contains materials related to Houston women's organizations such as the Houston Area Women's Center, the Women's Resource Center of Houston, and the Greater Houston Women's Foundation.
This series contains miscellaneous materials from Linda May's career, such as news clippings, posters, and assorted ephemera. The majority of this collection contains documentation and notes pertaining to the creation of the short documentary film The Living Tree. Other items include film scripts, periodicals and ephemera from her film career.
Contact Lists and correspondence with Living Tree consultants, family in China and the United States, and correspondence with museums and archives regarding image rights for The Living Tree.
Budgets, financing notes, receipts and other financial records related to the production of The Living Tree.
Grant applications and responses, organized by funding organization.
Research notes, images and materials related to the research and production of The Living Tree, including personal photos.
Production notes, rough cuts, script drafts, outlines and thumbnails for the production of the film The Living Tree.
Issues of periodicals edited by or contributed to by Flora Moon, speeches, materials from the Where is Home? Conference, brochures and four scripts.
Tapes, discs and cassettes, mostly to do with the Living Tree.
Books used in the research and production of The Living Tree.
(Chapters are Biography of Hang Yu, Lien Per and Lin Siang Ju, Tsu Yuan, Assassins)
(Google Translate thinks the spine says Lin Chuan (popular edition) Susie Yong pose Taiwan Commercial Press Release – but searching revealed no results)
This collection contains research materials, notes and correspondence related to the writing of The Rough Road to Justice: The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas. The book was commissioned by the State Bar of Texas Committee for Women in the Profession in 2003 under the leadership of Ellen Elkins Grimes and funded in part by a grant from the State Bar Association as well as other donors. Materials are arranged by function, with each series referring to a type of document. Materials are arranged by subject within each series.
Notes pertaining to the research and writing of Rough Road to Justice: The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
Research notes organized by chapter.
Original Manuscript for Rough Road to Justice: the Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
Contacts and Correspondence related to the research and writing of Rough Road to Justice: The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
Photographs of Texas women lawyers collected during research for Rough Road of Justice; The Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
Books used in the research and writing of Rough Road to Justice: the Journey of Women Lawyers in Texas.
This collection includes photos of Rose Club events, yearbooks that catalog membership, secretarial records and correspondence, and several scrapbooks. The majority of the materials are arranged chronologically and in the order they were received from donors.
This series includes digital archival materials, which are indicated by the term [digital]. A digital copy of the CD can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@uh.edu) for more information.
This collection contains materials related to the establishment of the Auxiliary fundraising board of the Houston Center for Hearing and Speech, formerly known as the Houston School for Deaf Children. Press clippings, school newsletters, copies of speeches, and gala and meeting invitations are all included.
This series contains the student and staff yearbooks for the Houston Center for Hearing and Speech, formerly known as the Houston School for Deaf Children.
This series contains publicity clippings, scrapbooks, correspondence, newsletters, and speeches related to the Auxiliary of the Houston Center for Hearing and Speech.
This collection contains research and draft materials from Claudia’s book and journalist work such as notes, editors’ commentary, final publications, promotional materials, and more. Claudia’s journals written during the drafting of her book are also included.
This series contains materials related to Claudia Kolker’s book, The Immigrant Advantage: What We Can Learn from Newcomers to America about Health, Happiness, and Hope, including manuscripts, bibliographic material, interview notes, publicity, etc.
This series contains materials related to Claudia work as a journalist and staff writer, including drafts, research, notes, and final published articles.
This series contains miscellaneous materials such as Claudia’s journals, personal calendars, and other miscellanea.
This collection contains materials related to Marcella Perry's work as a banker and politician between 1945 and 1985. The contents are broken up into two series: News, Events, and Correspondence; and Photos, Scanned Documents, and Scrapbooks. The sequencing is chronological and maintains the original structure created by Marcella and her family as closely as possible.
This series contains news clippings, correspondence, and event invitations related to Marcella Perry's work as a bank executive and port commissioner. Digital archival materials can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@uh.edu) for more information.
This series contains scrapbooks, photo sheets, and items from the folders Marcella's family labeled "Scanned Documents."
This collection contains items created between 1959 and 2013 related to the Texas Society of Professional Engineers (TSPE) and their Auxiliary, with a concentration on the Houston branch. The materials are broken up into series and organized chronologically within those series, with particular attention given to the original organization of the materials. There are meeting minutes, president’s records, relevant publications, and other miscellanea.
This collection is predominantly comprised of documents related to Betty Jukes’ nearly fifty years as an event planner, philanthropist, and volunteer in Houston. Organizations of note that Mrs. Jukes was involved with include the Houston Junior Woman’s Club, The Woman’s Club of Houston, the Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh Fund, and more. Spanning the years of 1967 through 2014, this collection also includes various awards and ephemera that Betty Jukes received throughout her career, and many interesting letters of correspondence between Mrs. Jukes and persons of note such as Lady Bird Johnson and Ima Hogg. Items are filed according to organizational affiliation and year.
This series contains materials related to the First Junior Woman’s Club of Houston, the Houston Junior Woman’s Club, and the Woman’s Club of Houston.
This series contains materials from activities related to the Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh Fund, an organization that funds scientific grants focused on environmental conservation and technological innovation. Also included here are Jukes’ files related to the Mercury Seven scholarship fund and the 1982 World Wildlife Foundation of Houston’s dinner honoring His Royal Highness Prince Philip of England.
This collection has materials related to various benefit galas and luncheons that Jukes planned over the course of her career. Included here are planning materials and invitations from the Houstonians of the Year dinner and Clean Houston Proud Partners’ Luncheon.
This series contains materials from the Houston Youth Symphony and Ballet, the University of Houston Moores’ School of Music Society, the West Point Cadets Glee Club Concerts, the Houston Grand Opera and the Theater Under the Stars of Houston, the Houston Symphony—Women’s Committee, and various Houston museums.
This series contains materials from Betty Jukes’ work related to St. Joseph’s Hospital, St. Luke’s Hospital, the Huffington Center on Aging, the Mental Health Association of Texas, the American Cancer Society, and the Houston March of Dimes.
This series contains miscellaneous photos related to Houston public works and parks. Additionally, materials from the short-lived Aquarium Society of Houston and other miscellaneous philanthropic projects of Betty Jukes’ reside here.
This collection is housed in 45 boxes and organized into 12 series entitled: Buffalo Bayou Partnership, Market Square Park Project, Art Lies (the magazine), good (the book), Blaffer Gallery, Friends of Integrative Medicine, Uncommon Cents, News clippings, photographs, A/V Materials, and Ephemera/Index Cards. Materials within this collection have been arranged topically and therein in chronological order.
This series documents one of the major projects in which Toni Beauchamp was involved in a leadership role. It contains well-documented information that gives an account of the various roles and projects executed by Toni Beauchamp and others in developing the Buffalo Bayou Master Plan for Buffalo Bayou Park (BBP). It is further broken down into various subseries that detail history, correspondence, board of director, professional consultation/development, financials, networking/publicity, memoranda, projects, and other information as it relates to BBP.
This series, represnting another major project in which Toni Beauchamp was involved in a leadership role, contains detailed and documented information that gives an account of the various roles and works that Toni and others executed in relation to the Market Square Park Project (MSPP). The documents highlight the development and progression of the project. This series is further sub-divided into subseries that include history, projects, correspondence, financials, funding, board of directors, professional consultant, and printed materials related to MSPP.
This series details another major project in this collection: Toni Beauchamp’s long-running affiliation with Art Lies magazine (now a part of Gulf Coast Magazine, a project of UH Creative Writing Program). The Series is further broken down into various subseries that deal with history, projects, correspondence, management, government relations, committees, financials, and articles, all in relation to Art Lies.
This series represents the fourth major project detailed in this collection. It consists of various elements of good, the book that Toni edited and produced in recognition of the new century: her Millennium Project. She commissioned artist Mel Chin to produce a sculpture (subsequently gifted to MFA,H) and cover art, and local people from all walks of life to write their story of being in Houston; edited the resulting essays; and produced the book. The Series is further broken down into various subseries that deal with history, projects, correspondence, management, Government relations, committees, financials, and articles relating to good.
This series represents the fifth major project detailed in this collection. It consists of various projects and events with which Toni Beauchamp was affiliated in relation to Blaffer Gallery, University of Houston. This Series is further broken down into subseries that deal with projects, correspondence, management, and articles relating to the Blaffer.
This series documents the sixth major project in this collection. Toni conceived, founded, and led FIM until her death in 2012, after which it continued as a project of UTMDACC. The Series consists of various projects and events with which Toni Beauchamp was affiliated in relation to Friends of Integrative Medicine. This Series is further broken down into subseries that deal with projects, correspondence, management, and articles relating to FIM.
This series represents the seventh major project in this collection. It consists of various projects and events with which Toni Beauchamp was affiliated in relation to Uncommon Cents, an investment “club” that Toni co-conceived, co-founded, and led. This Series is further broken down into subseries that deal with projects, correspondence, management, and articles relating to Common Cents.
This series documents various other projects Toni Beauchamp was affiliated with in Houston’s Art Community/Organizations and her other varied interests. This series is further broken down into subseries that are characterized by the names of these other groups, including Cultural Arts Council of Houston/ Harris County; Museum of Fine Arts, Houston; Contemporary Art Museum Houston, and Orange Show; as well as arts advocacy.
This series consists of full newspapers and newspaper and magazine clippings that contain information regarding the various projects with which Toni Beauchamp was affiliated, as well as general subject matters that were of interest to her. Some of the topics that can be found in this series include Robert Wilson, arts and architecture, John Biggers, Market Square Park, and real estate, among others.
This series consists of photographs of various projects and events in which Toni Beauchamp was engaged. The pictures consist of projects such as; DiverseWorks, Market Square Park, and the Millennium Project, among others. Each project and event is separated into folders as listed below:
This series consists of VCD’S, CD’s and Disk players that contains information relating to the  various projects and events in which Toni Beauchamp was engaged. These projects include; Buffalo Bayou Park, DiverseWorks, Market Square Park, James Johnson Sweeney, Toni’s thesis research, and Friends of Integrative Medicine.
This series consist of Ephemera such as awards given to Toni Beauchamp and Index cards that she used to take notes while carrying out various research for projects.
This collection includes the photographs, publications, and ephemera belonging to the North America Taiwanese Women’s Association. Materials are arranged topically and then chronologically, whenever possible. The series included are: Photo Albums/Scrapbooks, Publications, and Ephemera. The bulk of the materials are written primarily in Taiwanese except for the cookbooks which also include the English translation of the text.
This series contains photo albums and scrapbooks maintained by NATWA. All materials for the corresponding year were contained in individual albums or binders. The binders and albums have been deconstructed and preserved in archival sleeves though the original order has been maintained. Two oversized albums remain intact and can be located in OVS Box 5. Any written material and photograph captions within this series are written primarily in Taiwanese.
This series consists of printed materials published by NATWA. Included are the complete collections of membership directories, convention handbooks, magazines and calendars. The calendars are an important part of the NATWA tradition. First thought of by Ms. Annette Lu as a means to promote Taiwan, the calendars began with a donation by Japanese businessman Ing-Ke Kao and the annual publication has been instrumental in the organization’s financial success. All publications held in this series are primarily written in Taiwanese.
This series contains materials related to NATWA but does not fit into any previous series. Included are banners, scarves and a pin all decorated with the NATWA logo.
This collection consists of the research materials of Drs. Judith McArthur and Harold Smith. Included are copies of materials held at other institutions as well as the authors’ notes. The collection is divided into six series: Minnie Fisher Cunningham, People, Conventions/Conferences, Organizations/Committees, Issues, and Photographic Material. All materials relate to Minnie and her various efforts across differing fields of interest. The bulk of the papers consist of correspondence between Minnie and individuals and organizations. The series is organized thematically and alphabetically.
Note: A significant portion of the materials included in the collection are photocopies or reprints acquired from institutions other than the University of Houston and as such the holding institution must be cited where applicable.
This collection includes materials related to the UH Women’s Resource Center. The collection is broken into four series: General Information, Advertisements, Organizations and Printed Materials.
This series contains materials directly related to the WRC. Included are meeting minutes, articles about the center and various other materials pertaining to the organization.
This series consists of advertisements placed in the Daily Cougar, the University of Houston daily newspaper. The materials consist mainly of advertisements of events held by the WRC.
This series contains materials related to organizations with which the WRC worked closely. Both organizations, like the WRC, focus on support and networking of women on the University of Houston campus.
This series consists of printed materials not directly related to the WRC. Transitions is a magazine for new students.
This collection includes materials related to the University Commission on Women (UCW). The majority of the materials included in the collection revolve around the governance and operation of the organization with a large series being dedicated to the mentoring program. The collection consists of six series: Governance, Meetings, Mentoring Program, Reports, Research, and General Information.
This series consists of material related to the operation of the University Commission of Women. Included are bylaws, a brief history of the UCW, as well as information regarding scholarships and members.
This series contains materials related to the meetings of the UCW. The second sub-series consists of meeting materials as well as other materials distributed during the meetings. The third sub-series contains only meeting minutes.
The materials contained in this series relate to the UCW mentoring program. The UCW established the program after conducting a study on the need for mentoring in 2004. The program was designed to help mentors and mentees develop to their full professional potential and provide economic benefits to the University of Houston.
This series consists of reports conducted by the UCW. Included are reports on child care, domestic partner benefits and executive summaries. Of importance is the Report on the Status of Women from October 2007, the first conducted by the UCW.
This series contains research materials of the UCW. Included are surveys as well as statistics concerning the University of Houston and comparable educational institutions.
This series consists of materials related to the UCW that do not fit into the previous series. Included are articles pertaining to the UCW, organizational brochures, and information related to Jeanneret Associates, a consulting firm employed by the UCW.
This collection includes articles written by Karkabi, correspondence, notes and research materials. The collection is divided into ten series: Personal, Articles, Correspondence, Appointment Books, Houston Chronicle , Notes, Multi-Media, Publications, Research, and Ephemera. All series are arranged topically and chronologically.
This series contains materials directly related to Karkabi. Included are a short biography and a resume submitted for a seminar on youth mental health.
This series consists of articles written by Karkabi over her career. The majority of the articles were written for the Houston Chronicle, but the series also contains articles published in other newspapers and noted as such.
This series contains correspondence sent to Karkabi. Most of the materials consist of letters or emails concerning articles Karkabi wrote.
This series consists of day and monthly planners and message books. The monthly and day planners note appointments and scheduling, while the message books note missed calls. The day planner sub-series is incomplete with missing months for some years.
This series contains material directly related to the Houston Chronicle. Most of the material revolves around daily operations and internal issues of the paper. Also included are profiles and materials related to “Yo! Houston,” a feature on Houston teens.
This series consists of Karkabi’s reporter’s notebooks. The notebooks have been divided by topic where any discernable topic is known. A large number of notebooks have been grouped into OVSBox 10.
This series contains audio, video, and photographic material related to Karkabi or her research. The majority of materials included do not revolve around Karkabi herself but with research for her articles. Included are photographs and an oral history with Mary Ann Kokernot Lacy conducted by Karkabi.
This series consists of publications Karkabi collected for research for articles she wrote. The publications do not include any of Karkabi’s work. The majority of the material contained within the series relates to religious or health issues.
This series contains materials Karkabi used for research purposes. The majority of the materials found in this series relate to religious or health issues. Karkabi did extensive research on Muslims as well as religious organizations and religious centers in the Houston area.
This series consists of materials Karkabi collected in the course of her work. Of particular interest are odd religious centered artifacts such as the “Deseret honey” crafted by the Latter Day Saints as well as an unopened tin of adhesive bandages sporting images of Jesus. Also included are two journalism awards won by Karkabi.
The collection is primarily concerned with the River Oaks Area Democratic Women, though it also contains material for both Democrat and Republican political candidates. Material in the collection includes correspondence, business and financial records, photographs, and the organization’s publication, Register. The collection is divided into six series: Governance, ROADwomen Register, Events and Programs, Organizations, Campaign Materials, and Various Materials. All series are arranged topically and chronologically except for Organizations and Campaign Material, which are organized alphabetically by name group or candidate.
The series is the largest of the collection and is comprised of materials related to the governance of ROADwomen including financial and membership records, by-laws and other material pertaining to the incorporation of the organization. The sub-series concerned with meetings consist of materials and clippings pertinent to the meeting in question but are not meeting minutes.
This series consists of the organization’s newsletter. Each folder contains the newsletter that corresponds to the date and most contain drafts of the newsletter as well as materials included in the publication. Register primarily focuses on the activities of ROADwomen but also discusses issues pertinent to the organization.
This series contains materials on events hosted by ROADwomen as well as programs in which the organization participated. Arianna Live! is an event that featured Arianna Huffington, president and editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post. The Fork in the Road Benefits were held by ROADwomen as fundraisers for the organization and as a means to periodically give money to various Democratic clubs, organizations, and candidates, as well as to further the general mission of the group.
This series consists of flyers, brochures, and general information about the corresponding organization. The folders regarding the Harris County Democratic Party contain more information, such as correspondence between members of ROADwomen and the HCDP, as the two organizations worked closely together.
This series contains campaign materials for both Republican and Democrat candidates. The materials include flyers, stickers and other items pertaining to the candidates’ campaigns. Local Houston area, Texas state and national races are represented within the series. The voters guides are items released by different organizations and not specifically by ROADwomen.
This series consists of materials that do not fit into any other series. The materials included are business cards, a VHS tape, a print out of the Declaration of Independence, as well as various newspaper and magazine clippings regarding varied issues.
This collection includes speeches, written works, as well as DVDs and photo CDs that document civic and professional life of Andrea White, former First Lady of Houston, housed in one box and comprised of three series.
This series is comprised of speeches and presentations White delivered to various civic and volunteer groups between 2007 and 2010. Included are the original stump speeches she gave while her husband, Bill White, was a participant in the 2010 Texas gubernatorial race.
This series documents the development of Andrea White’s popular young adult fiction books. Included are translations of her works, Window Boy, and Surviving Antarctica, in Hungarian, Simplified Chinese, and Greek.
This book is available in UH Libraries Special Collections; call number PZ7.W58177 Su4 2005.
This book is available in UH Libraries Special Collections; call number PZ7.W58177 Su3 2005.
This book is available in UH Libraries Special Collections; call number PZ7.W58177 Wi2 2010.
This book is available in UH Libraries Special Collections; call number F394.H853 W48 2009.
This series contains miscellaneous written works collected by Andrea White.
The Patricia R. Cole and Nancy J. Flanakin National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence Records documents the organization’s work in providing training and consultation to organizations interested in the prevention of domestic and sexual violence. The collection includes correspondence, legal and legal style documentation, financial documents, printed materials, creative works, clippings, transparencies, forms, publications, posters, CDs, a VHS tape, note cards, handwritten notes, and ephemera created and maintained by The National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence (NCDSV). Because all records had been previously transferred from the organization to create a reference library at UT Austin, it was not possible to maintain original order. Additionally, the files of published literature in the field of domestic violence were removed as this material was deemed not an organic part of the organization's documentation. Where possible, folder contents were kept intact.
The records are arranged into six series with the bulk of the records dated 1998-2004. Administration, Conferences/Workshops, DTFDV (Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence), TCFV (Texas Council on Family Violence), Training/Education, and Tucker, Buel & Associates comprise the main series. The Administration series contains approximately half of the total records. Half of this first series consists of correspondence and a third consists of records of the co-founder, Sarah Buel.
The records are arranged into six series with the bulk of the records dated 1998-2004. Administration, Conferences/Workshops, DTFDV (Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence), TCFV (Texas Council on Family Violence), Training/Education, and Tucker, Buel & Associates comprise the main series. The Administration series contains approximately half of the total records. Half of this first series consists of correspondence and a third consists of records of the co-founder, Sarah Buel.
Administration records (1977-2007, 200 folders) are grouped into seven sub-series; Board of Directors, Donations, Executive Director, Memberships, Resume, Staff, and Staff Projects. Notable records include keynote speeches given by Sarah Buel at various conferences, Buel’s published works on domestic violence, and papers submitted by students of her “Domestic Violence and the Law” class taught during Buel’s time at the University of Texas Law School. Email threads in Nancy Flanakin’s correspondence reveal the NCDSV involvement in issues of national importance. An example of this is the 2004 correspondence showing the organizations involvement in reinstating the domestic violence exclusion in the Homeless Management Information System law. Under this act, domestic violence organizations were being forced to reveal shelter locations in order to sustain certain kinds of funding. Notable documents also include Patricia Cole’s work on welfare reform in regards to domestic violence victims and the Staff Bios contained in the Grant Proposal for Women’s Safety Initiative under the sub-series of Staff Projects.
The Conferences/Workshops records (1995-2005, 38 folders) contain conference folders or packets along with publications, printed material, forms, correspondence, ephemera, and handwritten notes. NCDSV members either participated in or attended the conferences/workshops listed. Notable records include Patricia Cole’s work on poverty and domestic violence at the Tenth Annual National Conference on Domestic Violence and Sarah Buel’s “Expert Witness” presentation at the 2001 Workshop of the same name.
The DTFDV (Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence) records (1996-2004, 101 folders) illuminate staff involvement during the three year period that DTFDV operated. This series is divided into four sub-series: Documents/Reports, Meetings, Site Visits, and Staff Documents. Under the sub-series “Meetings”, the April 2000 Initial Meeting documents the purpose, mission, and vision of the DTFDV.
The TCFV (Texas Council on Family Violence) records (1980-2007, 60 folders) are divided into six sub-series: Administration, Conferences, Ephemera, Manuals, National Domestic Hotline, and Reports/Documents. Both the Administration and Manuals sub-series contain important documents that NCDSV used as reference in creating its own organization and training methods.
The Training/Education series (1977-2007, 34 folders) is divided into four sub-series: Educational Materials, Handouts, Manuals, Slide/Presentations. A particularly chilling handout is a copy of a handwritten note containing a batterer’s rules for his victim.
The small series of Tucker, Buel & Associates contains records (1995-1998, 12 folders) created and maintained by NCDSV members. Items of interest include the materials from “A Domestic Violence Institute for Law Enforcement Trainers” and training materials for a coordinated community response to domestic violence.
The fonds deficiencies are that it does not contain founding documents, financial records particular to the NCDSV, and other administrative records.
Acronyms Employed in the Records and Finding Aid
BIPP: Batterer Intervention and Prevention Project
COBTH: Conference of Boston Teaching Hospitals
DTFDV: Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence
DOD: Department of Defense
DV: Domestic Violence
HASC: House Armed Services Committee
HMIS: Homeless Management Information System
LECC: Law Enforcement Coordinating Committee
NCADV: National Coalition Against Domestic Violence
NCDSV: National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence
NDVH: National Domestic Violence Hotline
NNEDV: National Network to End Domestic Violence
SOFA: Status-of-Forces Agreement
TANF: Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
TCFV: Texas Council on Family Violence
USAF: United States Air Force
VAWA: [National] Violence Against Women Act
Correspondence, legal and legal style documentation, receipts, printed materials, creative works, clippings, transparencies, charts, handwritten notes, and ephemera, 1977-2007 (200 folders) comprise the records in the Administration series. The series is divided into seven sub-series: Board of Directors, Donations, Executive Director, Memberships, Resume, Staff, and Staff Projects. The Board of Directors sub-series contains the records of three of the NCDSV board members: Sarah Buel, Rus Funk, and Toby Myers. The Staff sub-series consists of records of six staff members: Valinda Bolton, Patricia Cole, Nancy Flanakin, Vickie Smith, Christina Walsh, and Julie Walters. Correspondence contains not only the fax, email print-out, or letter, but also any documents referred to in the correspondence. The sub-series are arranged alphabetically and within that, the sub-sub-series are also alphabetical. At the lowest level the records have been arranged chronologically.
Correspondence, publications, printed materials, forms, handwritten notes, and ephemera, 1995-2005 (38 folders) comprise the records in the Conferences/Workshop series. The series details the NCDSV's participation in or attendance of conferences (including web conferences and teleconferences) and workshops. The items in this series are arranged chronologically.
The DTFDV series contains printed materials, handwritten notes, note cards, correspondence, creative works, charts, publications, and ephemera 1996-2004 (101 folders). It is divided into 4 sub-series; Documents/Reports, Meetings, Site Visits, and Staff Documents. The series details the NCDSV's involvement with the Defense Task Force on Domestic Violence. Of note is the testimony of Deborah Tucker to the Senate of the United States providing an overview of the work done by the DTFDV. This document can be found under the sub-series, Staff Documents. The material has been arranged alphabetically by record type, and then within that, chronologically.
The TCFV series contains documents, financial reports, publications, a VHS tape, CDs, posters, ephemera, and correspondence (including Toby Myers letter of resignation from the Board) 1980-2007 (60 folders). The records have been divided into six sub-series Administration, Conferences, Ephemera, Manuals, National Domestic Violence Hotline, and Reports/Documents. Within the sub-series the material has been arranged alphabetically by record type.
The Training/Education series contains documents, transparencies, published works, handwritten notes, and ephemera 1977-2007 (34 folders). It is divided into four sub-series; Educational Materials, Handouts, Manuals, and Slides/Presentations. This series reveals the consultation, training and education work of the NCDSV. The material has been arranged alphabetically by record type, and then within that, chronologically.
The small series of Tucker, Buel & Associates consists of printed documents, correspondence, transparencies, published materials, and ephemera 1995-1998 (12 folders). The series contains work of the Tucker, Buel & Associates organization. The material has been arranged alphabetically by record type.
The collection is primarily concerned with the Society of Women Engineers- Houston Area Section, though it also contains material from the regional and national levels of the organization. Material in the collection includes correspondence, business and financial records, photographs, and publications of the organization. The collection is divided into eleven series: Correspondence, Financial Documents, Organizational Governance, Meeting Minutes, Society of Women Engineers Publications, Printed Materials, Society of Women Engineers Regional and National Conference Materials, Retreats and Workshops, National Materials and Programs, Audio-visual and Mixed Media, and Various. All series are arranged topically and chronologically.
This series consists of correspondence of the Society of Women Engineers Houston Area and Texas Section. The material is organized chronologically consisting of the years 1972-2005. The correspondence focuses primarily on organizational and fundraising issues.
This series consists of financial documents of the Society of Women Engineers Houston Area. The series is comprised of receipts and financial documents, corporate sponsorship, and scholarships and awards. Both sub-series Financial Reports and Scholarships are arranged topically while the sub-series Industrial support is organized chronologically.
This series is comprised of documents concerning the organizational governance of the Society of Women Engineers both locally and nationally. The first sub-series includes documents regarding board of trustees, bylaws of the SWE and officer ballots and is organized topically. The second sub-series contains membership lists and directories of the Houston Area section of the SWE and is arranged chronologically.
This series consists of the meeting minutes of the SWE arranged chronologically from 1970-2009. The series revolves primarily around Houston Area section meetings but also includes Region C documents. Region C included the Houston Area Section of the SWE.
This series contains publications distributed by the SWE both locally and nationally. The first sub-series contains SWE Houston Area publications, divided into two sets of newsletters that are each organized chronologically. Sub-series 2 and 3 contain the SWE national newsletter and Members at Large Newsletter. The final sub-series is comprised of the national organization magazine published under various monikers; the SWE Newsletter, U.S. Woman Engineer, and SWE.
This series consists of various materials printed by the Society of Women Engineers and other engineering organizations. The first two sub-series are organized chronologically and the last topically. The first sub-series consists primarily of SWE brochures and flyers and the following two sub-series contain articles regarding engineering and publications from various engineering organizations.
This series contains materials regarding local, regional, and national Society of Women Engineer conferences as well as other local events. The first sub-series is comprised of materials from the SWE National Conference held in Houston in 1998, in which the local chapter of the SWE played an integral role. The last three sub-series focus on local, regional and national conferences that the Houston Area Section of the SWE participated. The series is comprised of correspondence, flyers and brochures, and photographs.
This series consists of materials from the Region C section of the Society of Women Engineers. The series includes “Vitality Retreat,” continuing and professional development programs materials. All sub-series are arranged chronologically.
This series consists of printed materials, awards, and information disseminated by the Society of Women Engineers on a national level. The series includes information on rewards, charters, and career guidance programs. Each sub-series is organized chronologically.
This series contains various media items that revolve around the Society of Women Engineers. The series consists of photographs, VHS tapes, and computer CDs.
This series consists of materials relevant to the Society of Women Engineers that do not conform to other series.
This collection is comprised of one box and includes newsletters and correspondence from the Harris County Women’s Political Caucus and the Texas and National Women’s Political Caucuses, brochures, convention related documents and histories and bylaws of the organizations. It also includes a few issues of the Women’s Political Times , a publication of the National Women’s Political Caucus. Materials are arranged regionally, and then by topic within each regional series.
This series contains the documents directly related to the Harris County Women’s Political Caucus, a local affiliate of the Texas and National Women’s Political Caucuses. Some of the items featured in this series are the bylaws and history of the organization, the operational and organizational documents of the organization, and a series of newsletters published by the caucus. The series includes 12 folders contained in 1 box.
This series contains the documents directly related to the Texas Women’s Political Caucus and is comprised of 3 folders contained in 1 box.
This series contains the documents directly related to the National Women’s Political Caucus. There’s an extensive set of documents related to the 1979 national convention, saved by Josephine Harris Stewart and removed from her collection for inclusion in this series. This series is comprised of 7 folders contained in 1 box.
This collection includes the records, correspondence, written works, articles, and photographs that document the life of Toby Myers as a worker in the Battered Women’s Movement. The thirteen series span from 1972 to 2010.
All material grouped within a series is chronologically arranged.
This series contains typed and manuscript correspondence of a personal nature addressed to Toby Myers between 1979 and 2010. One folder holds dated material and the other undated.
This series is comprised of works written by Toby Myers dealing with her activities in the battered women’s movement as well as personal events. Of particular interest is the eulogy written for Nanette Bruckner.
Materials in this series deal primarily with Toby Myers’ teaching positions at The University of Texas Health Science Center in Houston, TX.
This series documents the role that Judaism has played in the life of Toby Myers. Correspondence, documents, photographs, clippings, and other printed items illustrate her activities within the faith and how she advocated for the rights of Jewish women and battered wives by participating in Jewish women’s groups and speaking out against what she deemed unfair practices.
This series documents Toby Myers’ involvement in advocacy with correspondence, testimony transcripts, printed material, and photographs.
This series documents Myers’ role as a public speaker. Manuscripts, speeches, letters of appreciation and other printed material serve to highlight her participation at speaking engagements, workshops, and seminars dealing with domestic violence and other women’s issues.
This series follow Toby Myers in print media from 1972-2010.
This series contains clippings by Toby Myers of topics of interest to her, but authored by other people.
This series shows the awards and honors bestowed upon Toby Meyers from 1981 to 2010. Of particular interest are the photographs and newspaper coverage of the AVDA DeeDee Ostfeld Award for Advocacy that she won in 2010.
This series contains correspondence and other typed and printed material related to the PIVOT project (now called Battery Intervention and Prevention Program or BIPP).
This series contains correspondence and other typed and printed material related to HAWC.
This series is made up of two folders that contain typescripts and photographs regarding a year that Toby Myers spent in Europe conducting the International Development Project (IDP) for the Texas Council On Family Violence.
This series contains photographs of Toby Myers, friends, and other notable personages. Of particular interest are the candid photographs of the late Texas Governor Ann Richards (1991-1995).
This collection is comprised of 12 boxes and 17 linear feet and documents the evolution of the Maternal Health Center of Houston into the Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas branch. Material in the collection is dated from 1936 until 2004. The collection contains historical information about the origins of the Planned Parenthood of Southeast Texas and the Maternal Health Center as well as the national birth control movement and Planned Parenthood Federation. The collection features an extensive series of recorded and transcribed oral interviews documenting the memories of staff and patients of Planned Parenthood of Southeast Texas, as well as an unpublished written history of the organization called Sixty Years of choice . In addition, there is a large series of dated photographs featuring staff of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas, and chronicling their fundraisers, galas and other events. A large part of the Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas’s work involves community education and outreach thus a large series contains the publications and pamphlets used for these purposes, as well as the newspaper articles and clippings from Houston and national periodicals featuring topics of interest to the organization. Smaller series feature the financial history of the organization dating back to the Maternal Health Center, correspondence from the organization, and publications from organizations affiliated with Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas.
This series is contained in 1 box and is comprised of 33 folders. It has items dating from 1935 until 2004 and contains documents related to the history of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. Of particular interest are documents related to Margaret Sanger, including an early copy of her controversial pamphlet on contraception called Family Limitation.  Additionally the annual reports of Planned Parenthood through the years are included, as well as the unpublished history Sixty years of choice which chronicles the growth of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas from its origins as the underfunded volunteer organization the Maternal Health Center of Houston.
This series is contained in one box and has 28 folders, and is organized alphabetically and topically. The interviews were conducted between 1995 and 1997. It features the transcripts and original recordings of the oral history interviews conducted by Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. The oral history interviews were conducted to gain the personal perspective of Houston citizens impacted by Planned Parenthood on its effect on their lives. It includes the data sheets for the interviewees.
This series is contained in 1 box and has 7 folders, arranged chronologically. The contained correspondence is dated from 1947 until 2007. It contains correspondence to and from representatives of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas, as well as correspondence with affiliated organizations and other Houston individuals involved with the organization.
This series is contained in 1 box and has 47 folders, arranged chronologically and ranging from 1977 - 1996. Some of the photos are identified by person or event but the majority is unidentified, although arranged by year. The photographic files chronicle events of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas through the years, including their galas, other fundraisers, and political events.
This series is contained in one box and has 15 folders and ranges from 1938 - 1985. It contains the financial and legal documents of both the Maternal Health Center and the various incarnations of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. Of particular interest are the loans and the IRS records for Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas to receive its tax-exempt status. Contained, as well, is budgeting information for the various Planned Parenthood activities throughout its years.
This series is contained in 1 box and is comprised of 20 folders. It contains items dating from 1974 until 1996 and many undated items. This series contains pamphlets, flyers and educational information published by Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. In addition it contains documents and slides used to train the volunteers and employees of Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas.
This short series is contained in 1 box and spans 2 folders with dates ranging from 1990 - 1997. Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas was involved in several clinical trials for contraception and abortion medications in the United States. The Mifepristone study, also known as RU486, is of particular interest. The series contains information on the studies, press-release information and public outreach information as well as medical results.
This series is contained in 1 box and has 20 folders, spanning from 1985 to 1997. It contains documents related to Planned Parenthood’s extensive media outreach program and its fundraising activities. Contained are records of the names of reporters, solicited newspaper articles, advertisements and other public outreach activities of the organization.
This series is contained in 3 boxes and contains 46 folders, with items dating from 1945 until 2002. This series features documents and publications from organizations affiliated with Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. A particularly large set of documents is related to the Bryan Planned Parenthood branch, a sister organization to Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas. Another particularly large group of documents are related to the various population control organizations affiliated with Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas that were endorsing family planning as an environmental, health and social concern necessary for human existence on the planet.
The following series is contained in 2 boxes and contains 32 folders. Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas employees and volunteers maintained an extensive file of newspaper clippings on interests and concerns of relevance to Planned Parenthood’s social and political missions. The series is arranged in two sub-series, the first being the undated original clippings which are arranged thematically. The second sub-series are the files Planned Parenthood employees and volunteers maintained with photocopies of relevant articles which were used for education and public outreach. The clippings range from 1936 – 2001.
This series is contained in 3 boxes and has 8 folders, with dates ranging from 1940 – 2001. Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas and other affiliated branches of Planned Parenthood created several scrapbooks featuring events and news of importance to Planned Parenthood. Of particular interest is a scrapbook with photographs and newspaper articles dating from the 1940s and 1950s.
This series is contained in 2 boxes and features exhibit displays prepared by Planned Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas to chronicle their history and growth as an organization. The displays are organized by year and range from 1940 – 2000.
This collection includes the records, written works, collected writings, and photographs that document the development of the Houston Gorilla Girls, an anonymous women’s art collective that protested sexism and racism in the art world from the 1987 to the late nineties. There are nine series, spanning from 1985 to 2000 which are entitled as follows: Correspondence; Organizational Documents and Photographs; Propaganda; Diverse Works Installation: Another Dead Horse; Rice University Installation at the Sewell Gallery: “Been Down So Long Feels Like Up To Me”; Other Gorilla Girls Installations and Shows: 1988-1997; Miscellaneous Clippings, Photographs, Articles, and Correspondence; New York City Guerrilla Girls; and Guerrilla/Gorilla Girls, Other Cities.
The collection is housed in ten boxes, eight of which contain original costumes and installation material.
This series contains ten folders comprised of documents and photographs that narrate the development of the Houston Gorilla Girls in financial statements, clippings, posters, correspondence and photographs.
This series contains seven folders of typescript and manuscript correspondence along with original mailing lists between the Gorilla Girls and members of the arts community in Houston and internationally.
This series contains two sub-series that document the ways in which the Gorilla Girls tried to institute change through artistic persuasion. Housed within are photographs, correspondence, costume pieces, and original protest placards and flyers.
One box of gorilla masks, rubber stamps, and other costume material.
This series contains two sub-series, comprised of 13 folders and seven boxes of documentation and artifacts pertaining to the 1998 Gorilla Girls installation at the Diverse Works Art Space.
This sub-series includes two sub-sub-series comprised of six boxes of 78 stuffed gorillas and one box of 12 caricature cut-outs that were part of the “Another Dead Horse” exhibit.
Seventy-eight total, stored in six boxes.
Twelve caricature cut-outs, 1 collage piece, 1 paper maché gorilla doll, 3 cutout quotation placards, G.G. Installation cassette tape, and G.G.-1991 Burning Bush cassette tape.
This series contains seven folders comprised of the financial and planning documents, clippings,photographs and other materials related to the Gorrilla Girls’ installation at Rice University’s Sewell Gallery entitled, “Been Down So Long Feels Like Up To Me.”
This series contains nine folders composed of printed material that document various art shows and installations undertaken by Gorilla Girls Houston between 1988 and 1997, including one show that was put on in Verona, Italy.
This series contains six folders of printed material and photographs that members of the Houston Gorilla Girls saved to be used in installations and as reference material for panel discussions.
This series contains two folders of clippings, articles, and protest materials from the original New York City group.
This series contains three folders of correspondence, protest material, brochures, and photographs that detail the activities of Guerrilla/Gorilla Girls in different parts of the United States.
This collection includes the articles of incorporation, by-laws, administrative documents, informational brochures, records of consciousness raising and fund-raising events, and newspaper clippings for the Asians Against Domestic Abuse organization. Materials are arranged topically and then chronologically, whenever possible. The series included are: Administrative Documents and Brochures and Other Publicity. The collection is comprised of 12 folders contained in 1 box.
This series includes the articles of incorporation, by-laws, financial and administrative records of the Asians Against Domestic Abuse organization. The series is arranged topically.
This series includes informational brochures, records for fundraising and consciousness raising events, and newspaper clippings presenting information about Asians Against Domestic Abuse and its events and activities.
The collection is organized in 17 series and is housed in 6 boxes that document the organization and community volunteer programs of the Altrusa Club of Houston. The collection includes meeting minutes, financial records, and annual records. Concerning the club's yearly activities, there are newsletters from 1956-2008 and yearbooks ranging from 1936-2008. The collection contains information regarding community volunteer programs, as well as photographs from several events. There are four scrapbooks in this collection, as well as artifacts.
Housed in 6 boxes and organized into 5 series titled: Mary Ellen Ewing, Gladys Ewing, Family Photographs, Presley K. Ewing, and Josie (Vesta) Ewing, this collection documents the feminist activities of Mary Ellen Ewing, Gladys Ewing’s social life, legal and familial concerns of Presley K. Ewing, and the writings and journeys of Josie (Vesta) Ewing.
This series documents Mary Ellen's distinguishable attributes and accomplishments such as her public and philanthropic service; her placement in “The Texas Women’s Hall of Fame”; her positions as Chairman of the Legislative Committee of Harris County Suffrage Association, Honorary President of the Child Welfare League, and the first Vice President of State Congress of Mothers and the State Humane Society; her advocacy endeavors and feminist activism; and her role as an inventor of street sanitation enhancements.
This series documents Gladys Ewing's social engagements in Houston, Texas in the fall of 1911 during the Annual No-Tsu-Oh Festival and the spring of 1912 during the Mardi Gras season. Additional albums kept by Miss Ewing document her social life and attendance while a student at the Finch School for young ladies in New York City from 1909-1911. Her bridal gift registry from 1917 is included, as well as personal journals and scrapbooks. Finally, photographs of Gladys throughout her life finish off the series.
This series consists of photographs of the Ewing family as well as several photographs of the family home located in Houston, Texas. Also included are photographs of the Kittredge and Williams family members. A photo CD of scans of some of the photographs also resides in this series.
This series consists of correspondence and other documents relating to all aspects of Presley K. Ewing’s life including letters recommending his appointment to the Supreme Court of the United States as well as correspondence regarding legal cases. The bulk of the series contains letters to and from family members, but of particular interest is a series of correspondence with William Jennings Bryan.
This series contains documents revolving primarily around the travels of Josie Vesta Ewing. Included are journals, correspondence and articles written by Vesta during her travels through Europe. Also included are poems penned by Vesta in both French and English.
The collection is housed in 5 boxes and organized in 10 series: Organizational Information; The Delphian Society Manuals; Special Projects; Correspondence; Bit-O-News Newsletters; Photographic Material; Publicity Clippings; Delphian Memorial Scholarship Fund; Delphian Chapters’ Scrapbooks and Houston Delphian Assembly Scrapbooks. These series document the organization’s operations, numerous social events and scholarship fund information.
Stacked on shelves-- Not Boxed
Accrual of additional unprocessed materials acquired on April 28, 2015.
The Komen Foundation, Houston Records are housed in 35 boxes. The materials are arranged chronologically in ongoing yearly series with the following recurring subseries: Administrative Documents, Organizational Documents, Roster, Scholarships and Grants, Informational Material, Newsletters, Sponsors, Events, Race for Cure, Clippings and Correspondence, etc. Most notably, this collection documents organizational events and fundraising efforts from 1998 to 2012.
The Komen Foundation donated approximately 7 linear feet of additional materials to UH Libraries in 2015. These are currently unprocessed and not yet available for research.
Additional unprocessed materials acquired April 28, 2016
This small collection is housed in 1 box and consists of one series that documents Norma Lee’s correspondence concerning activist and feminist activities in the mid to late 1970’s. Most notably, the collection contains correspondence from well-known political figures such as Rep. Barbara Jordan. Additionally, you can find correspondence regarding high profile issues and events such the Equal Rights Amendment and the International Women’s Year (IWY) National Women’s Conference, 1977.
The contents of this collection comprise the life of Harriet Joan Ehrlich. The bulk of the materials contained within revolve around Ehrlich’s tenure with the EEOC, specifically as director. The collection has been divided into eight (8) series: Correspondence, Certificates, Personal Writings, Multimedia, News Clippings, Press Books, In-Service Educational Materials, and Ephemera.
This series contains correspondence to and from Ehrlich. The bulk of the material contained within pertains to EEOC business and issues. Sub-Series 2 consists of thank you notes from a wide array of individuals.
The series consists of awards received by Ehrlich. Included are certificates of appreciation, resolutions and various other commendations. All materials in this series are in paper form.
This series contains the personal writings of Ehrlich. Included are appointment books as well as an original poem written by Ehrlich.
This series consists of audio visual materials. Of special interest is a photograph of Ehrlich receiving an award from Vice-President Al Gore.
This series includes news clippings related to the EEOC or issues pertaining to the organization.
This series consists of binders containing press releases and news clippings revolving around the EEOC or issues pertaining to the organization.
This series contains training materials provided by the EEOC. Included are reports and conference materials.
This series consists of two plaques honoring her service as director of the Houston branch of the EEOC.This series contains training materials provided by the EEOC. Included are reports and conference materials.
This collection is housed in 9 boxes and arranged in 7 series. Annise Parker’s papers document her campaigns for elected office in the City of Houston from: City Council Race-Defeated-1991; City Council Race-Defeated-1995; City Council Race-Won-1997; City Council Race-Won-2001; City Controller Race-Won-2003; and City Controller Race-Won-2005. Material formats within these series range from newspaper clippings and video recordings to correspondence and typescript. A 7th series includes a single folder containing programs, press clippings, invitations, and other materials related to Parker's 2009 mayoral election that have been collected and added to the collection.
These materials have been collected and added to the collection.Containing 13 series and housed in 6 boxes, this collection documents Mrs. Chenoweth's life's work as a lecturer and writer. Most notably, her lecture and radio show program materials are extensively represented in such formats as article clippings, correspondence, typescript, periodicals and photographic material. Mrs. Chenoweth's papers also document her social interactions with prominent individuals such as Queen Marie of Romania and President Herbert Hoover. Additionally, this collection contains important memorabilia Mrs. Chenoweth collected throughout her life and materials that document important family history information.
The papers of Leonor Villegas Magnón are organized into eight series: Correspondence, Biographical material, Publications/Manuscripts, Cruz Blanca documents, Texas and US history and politics, Women’s interests, Mexican history and politics, and Photographs. The collection contains correspondence, manuscripts and manuscript notes, personal biographical documents, and newspaper clippings. Of particular interest is information about La Cruz Blanca, La unión de progreso y caridad and her autobiographical novels La rebelde and The lady was a rebel. The collection contains material dating from 1906–1980.
This series contains 34 folders, organized chronologically, with correspondence starting in 1913 and dated through 1980. The contained correspondence includes items from Leonor Magnón and documents related to her manuscripts sent by her relatives. Of particular interest is correspondence related to Magnón’s activities during the Mexican Revolution, including correspondence with Venustiano Carranza and other revolutionary leaders.
The 9 folders in this series include items dated from 1913–1948 and many undated documents. This series contains newspaper clippings, personal documents, deeds, and legal documents. See also: Series 8, photographs.
This series contains 19 folders with mostly undated manuscripts, writings, and publications authored by Leonor Villegas de Magnón. It includes her autobiographical works La Rebelde and The Lady was a Rebel and various publications in Laredo newspapers. See also: Series 8, photographs.
The 3 folders in this series contain mostly undated materials from the Cruz Blanca (White Cross) medical aid society founded by Leonor Villegas de Magnón during the Mexican Revolution. It contains a ledger, various newspaper clippings from Mexican and Texas newspapers, and other documents. See also: Series 8, photographs.
The two folders in this series contain publications dated from 1913-1974 and undated newspaper clippings from various Texas and US publications.
The 3 folders in this series contain newspaper clippings, books, and pamphlets dating from 1912 to 1974, with many undated materials. Of particular interest is a book about the history of Texas women, and the documents relating to the women’s societies: La unión de progreso y caridad (the union of progress and charity) and La agrupación auxiliar femenina de voluntarias para la defensa nacional (the women’s auxiliary of volunteers for the national defense). Also included is information about the Pan American Roundtable.
The 5 folders in this series contain newspaper clippings, artistic programs, books, magazines, and pamphlets dating from 1912 to 1974, with some undated materials. The documents particularly emphasize the Mexican Revolution. See also: Series 8, photographs.
The 10 folders in this series contain photographs maintained by Leonor Villegas de Magnón. Many of these photographs are related to her autobiographical novel La Rebelde and her participation in the Mexican Revolution. Of special note are photographs of Venustiano Carranza, Francisco Madero, and photographs of the members of La Cruz Blanca. Other photographs feature generals and soldiers of the Mexican Revolution and the family and friends of Villegas de Magnón. The photographs are organized thematically.
This collection documents the creative process of Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. as it produced album artwork for Houston-area and other American hip hop artists. The collection contains 67 digital files, 13 posters, 9 poster flats, and other material documenting the company, including a catalog and photographs of its staff. It also includes a Geto Boys storyboard, made under the auspices of Rap-a-Lot Records, and two t-shirts.
Some digital files can be viewed immediately in the UH Digital Library at http://digital.lib.uh.edu/collection/pixel. Digital archival materials can also be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
The Digital Promotional Artwork series includes 40 digital files of artwork for CDs, vinyl records, videocassettes, and other promotional material produced by Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. The intended format for the promotional material files is indicated as part of the title for each item, but artwork was often reworked into various formats. For example, artwork created for a CD cover was often adapted for use in a poster. All but two of the digital files (Cher and Chris Rock) can be viewed immediately in the UH Digital Library at http://digital.lib.uh.edu/collection/pixel. The digital files can also be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. They may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
The Administrative Digital Files series includes 26 digital photographs taken at the Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. office and at a Pen & Pixel Graphics, Inc. 1998 staff event. The series also includes one speech by Shawn Brauch from 1999. All of the photographs can be viewed immediately in the UH Digital Library at http://digital.lib.uh.edu/collection/pixel. These digital files can also be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. They may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
The staff photographs include 18 digital images of Pen & Pixel staff taken in 1998. They are available in the folder indicated below and include the filenames listed.
Mrs. Shuart’s papers are organized into three sections. The collection documents contributions to the University of Houston and contains materials relevant to her interests dating back to the mid 1980’s. Her efforts as a working member of several University of Houston committees and boards are extensively represented. Mrs. Shuart’s papers also lay testament to her acquaintances with a number of very effective women such as Molly Ivins, Ann Richards, Renu Khator and Marguerite Ross Barnett among many others. Additionally, the papers contains various memorabilia collected by Shuart throughout the years, such as mementos from the 100th Anniversary Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia and from her years as a fan of the Houston Comets, a winning woman’s basketball team.
This collection consists of 7 series and is housed in 2 boxes. The focus of the papers is the various organizations with which Oren has been affiliated. Most notably, this collection includes organizational material regarding the Houston Area Feminist Federal Credit Union, the National Organization for Women and Women and Labor organizations.
Various organizations and information pertaining to labor rights have been put together in this series.
Program details about women studies at different universities and newsletters of several organizations have been compiled together.
Creative writings, feminist material and newspaper clippings, calendars and other published information is compiled together in this series.
Newspaper clippings, brochures etc. along with information regarding equal rights amendment is housed.
Information regarding national organization for women, financial documents, correspondence with the parent body are the highlights of this series.
The famous national women’s conference at Houston is the highlight of this series. It houses the program brochure, proposed national plan of action at the conference, special issue of WOMEN, 1977.
It is split into 6 distinct folders which contain the organizational documents along with the financial documents and board meetings, photographic material and other literature form part of this series.
This collection includes materials pertaining to the life and rap career of John Edward Hawkins, or HAWK. Digital files comprise the bulk of the collection and mostly include digital photographs of HAWK and his associates at hip hop related events. The digital files also include personal family photographs of HAWK’s wedding and funeral, as well as scans of newspaper clippings pertaining to his death. All digital files were scanned from originals owned by HAWK’s family.
The collection also contains a smaller amount of physical material, including a notebook used by HAWK to record rap lyrics and his daily activities, promotional material, and the obituaries, or memorial service programs, for HAWK and his brother Fat Pat.
The notebook includes rap lyrics and information documenting HAWK’s daily life. The original item is fragile and use of the digital surrogate is preferred; please see http://digital.lib.uh.edu/collection/hawk/item/189
The digital files can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room. Please note that the filename for each digital file is indicated in the inventory. A spreadsheet with original file name information is available by contacting the curator at jgrob@uh.edu.
The Burdette Keeland Papers cover the period 1926 to 2000 and are comprised of his architectural drawings, business and personal files, memorabilia, photographic prints, and negatives, as well as materials from his teaching career. The collection occupies 25 linear feet of shelves and 15 drawers of flat files. It is stored in 40 boxes, 112 oversize folders, and 5 tubes for rolled material. It also includes one oversized construction sign and one piece of framed artwork.
The largest category of documents concerns Keeland's architectural practice. This category is comprised of his architectural drawings, project files, photographs, and magazines in which his work was published. The majority of the original drawings are (a) studies and preliminary drawings and (b) working drawings. Keeland was a talented artist and created presentation drawings in pen and ink for many projects. These are of special interest and are noted in the finding aid for those projects.
Other important categories include Keeland's correspondence files, clippings files, travel photographs, papers from the City of Houston Planning Commission, and files related to his teaching career with the University of Houston.
Also, Keeland amassed an extensive collection of photographic slides of the architecture he encountered on his travels. These slides were separated from the Burdette Keeland Papers and transferred to the Visual Resources Center at the University’s Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture. At present they have not been processed or catalogued.
The Personal Papers includes records generally created outside of Keeland’s professional life, such as biographical information, address lists, and material related to his family.
This section features material related to Keeland’s career as an architectural designer. Folder 9 contains, among other things, a “Self-Employment Statement,” which is Keeland’s own list of his clients and projects from 1951 to 1985. Also notable are his files on other architects, such as Philip Johnson, Howard Barnstone, Buckminster Fuller, and Frank Welch.
This series contains materials related to Keeland’s long teaching career and his relationship with the University of Houston.
Keeland’s large collection of business cards attests to his extensive network of contacts in the local community. The business cards and lists of telephone numbers have been preserved as Keeland left them and have not been separately indexed.
This section contains audio recordings of lectures by several prominent architects and interviews with members of the faculty at the University Of Houston College Of Architecture. Philip Johnson’s lecture is dated October 20, 1953. Frederick Kiesler’s is undated but is probably from the late 1950s. Paul Rudolph’s is undated but appears to have been done in 1961. The interviews are part of a series done by students in Keeland’s Spring 1968 Fourth Year Studio for a student publication called “Zero” (See Keeland collection, Box 33). The original media (reel-to-reel magnetic tapes) have been preserved, but the recordings have been transferred to compact disc for use by patrons.
In addition to teaching a design studio, in the mid 1990s Keeland taught the course “Introduction to Architecture,” to familiarize first-year students with the issues and personalities of modern architecture. His lectures were an entertaining and opinionated look at architecture through his eyes. This section contains video recordings of many of the lectures. Also included are recordings of the 1989 Keeland roast; Keeland’s 1996 “40 Proof” retrospective lecture; and the 2000 Keeland memorial service at the College of Architecture. All are in the VHS format and were transferred from the Visual Resources Center at the College of Architecture. For some subjects there is more than one lecture. The VRC designated them as part of its “permanent collection,” but later added new lectures by Keeland on some of the same subjects. The following list identifies the date (if known), the lecturer, the subject of the lecture, and its duration.
During his life Keeland kept a number of files for letters, some of them overlapping in subject or date. This material has been consolidated in general correspondence files by date. Correspondence with notable architectural and professional figures has been transferred to specific files for those individuals. Other important series of correspondence include those with Keeland’s wife, Margaret Scott Keeland, former high school classmates, friends from the Army, and members of his immediate family.
Keeland kept an extensive file of newspaper clippings about his career and other subjects of interest. These are stored in 30 folders arranged in chronological order. Oversized clippings are contained in Box 27.
The “Why, Houston, Why?” exhibition was a major event at the University of Houston College of Architecture in the early 1980s. Keeland was a faculty sponsor of this student-produced exhibition about Houston, exhibited in 1984 at the American Center in Paris. He also helped produce or participated in several conferences and symposia about urban planning. This section contains files related to those subjects.
This group of materials relates to Keeland’s architectural practice and is comprised of project files, clippings, sketches, and some photographs.
Keeland documented his work with a photographic record. This section contains pictures of most of his projects, built and unbuilt.
The photographs in this section document aspects of Keeland’s professional life, including his involvement with the University of Houston College of Architecture and government and civic groups, such as the Park People and the Houston Planning Commission.
Other photographs in the collection record Keeland’s personal life, including his childhood, his army service, family, and friends. A highlight of his army photos is a historic photograph of Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial Hotel in downtown Tokyo (1914-1968).
Keeland acquired through his wife a collection of photographic negatives owned by Harry Walker (1894-1971), husband of Carrie Scott Walker (1895-1981), Mrs. Keeland’s aunt. The negatives cover the period from the turn of the twentieth century to the 1940s and record Walker’s life growing up in Beaumont, Texas, and his adult life after his move to Houston in the late 1910s. Walker was apparently the photographer on most of the negatives. Although most of the subjects are unidentified, the pictures provide an important view of domestic life and dress during that era. Of interest are photographs of Walker’s home at 1914 Bissonnet, Houston, with views of the area that includes Poe Elementary School when the neighborhood was new in 1929. Historical views of Houston from the 1920s include Rice Institute, Hermann Hospital, the Houston Ship Channel, and the San Jacinto Trust Company, his employer. There are also historic images of pioneer aviatrix Katherine Stinson flying a Wright Brothers biplane about 1915. The names of the folders and the filing system are Walker’s, except that the Rice, Hermann, and Stinson photographs have been moved to separate folders. Another folder includes several photographs of downtown Houston in the snow, about 1925, with views of Union Station and nearby buildings.
Keeland was appointed to the Houston Planning Commission in 1964 by Mayor Louie Welch. In 1981 he became chairman and served in that capacity until he left the commission in 1991. During this time Houston experienced phenomenal growth, thus challenging the planning commission to find ways to respond to these pressures in a city without comprehensive zoning or other land use laws. During Keeland’s tenure on the commission, major issues included the city’s first tree ordinance, the controversial proposal to extend Chimney Rock Road across Buffalo Bayou, and the extensive study and preparation for the zoning referendum election of 1994, which ultimately was unsuccessful. As chairman Keeland was an advocate of land use planning and, in particular, the enactment of a city-wide zoning ordinance. His files reflect these issues and others. A number of the zoning reference materials relate to a Planning and Zoning Commission Workshop held at the Woodlands Conference Center in 1992.
[Cataloged: F394.H8 C85 1992]
[Cataloged: SB483.H6 S78 1993]
[Cataloged: F394.H8 C65 1913a]
Veteran travelers, Keeland and his wife Margie made annual trips to destinations around the world. His files contain records of trips to Europe, Asia and Africa during the 1980s and 1990s.
This section contains Keeland’s collection of materials about cemeteries, including reference materials, photographs, and his materials for a book on the subject that was never published.
Memorabilia include personal effects from Keeland’s army service (1944–1946), although there are several personal items and others from his professional career. They are contained in one small box and three oversize flat boxes.
This series contains magazines, exhibition catalogs, and oversized clippings that Keeland saved for reference. Subjects of interest include art, architecture, World War II, and Frank Sinatra. Several of the publications from the 1950s contain features on Keeland’s buildings. They are contained in seven oversize flat boxes.
Large oversized artwork and photographs of Keeland’s architecture are stored in flat-file drawers. Smaller such materials, however, may be found in this oversized box.
Keeland’s passion for cemeteries and tombstones appears in materials elsewhere in the collection. This group contains oversized materials, including photographs, photocopies and clippings related to cemeteries.
Keeland and his friends often exchanged large greeting cards and announcements collaged from newspaper and magazine images. This group is composed of oversized cards received by Keeland on birthdays and other occasions. Many are from Bill Shields, an artist who was Keeland’s high-school classmate. Shields was one of Keeland’s early clients before he moved to San Francisco. Also included are a group of color prints of artwork from Shields from the late 1990s.
This group includes various oversized materials related to Keeland’s professional career. The 2004 poster was received from the UH College of Architecture while the collection was in processing. It concerns an event for the College of Architecture’s new Burdette Keeland building, named for Keeland after his death.
This group contains oversized prints of renderings and sketches for some of Keeland’s architectural projects.
Shortly before his death, the University of Houston’s College of Architecture honored Keeland with a retrospective exhibition. Open from February 10 through March 3, 2000 in the college’s gallery, the show explored his career through numerous images of his work. Keeland assisted the organizers with preparation of the exhibition. This series contains many of the images from the exhibition, each mounted on a foam-board panel.
This series contains Keeland’s architectural drawings. They fall into four categories: Studies and Preliminary Drawings, Working Drawings, Prints, and Presentation Drawings. All are large format and are stored in flat files in oversized folders. Some projects contain examples of more than one category of drawings.
Keeland had a large collection of art posters, most acquired from the 1960s to 1980s during his travels.
Those items too large to fit in an oversized flat file are stored in rolled form.
This collection includes personal records, fliers, posters, photographs, business records, audiocassettes, and memorabilia belonging to Carlos “DJ Styles” Garza, and relating to his work as a b-boy, DJ, and hip-hop music producer in Houston from the mid-1980s to 2011. This collection is divided into six series: Personal Papers, Business Records, Promotional Materials, Publications, Memorabilia, and Audiocassettes.  Items within each series are arranged chronologically wherever dates are available.
This sub-series contains drawings by Carlos Garza and by two of his friends, Frosty Ice and Gino.
This sub-series contains records relating to the Operation Brightside Summer Youth Employment Program, which was a program co-sponsored by the Houston Area Urban League and Anheuser-Busch Inc.
This series contains business records relating to Carlos Garza’s work as a hip hop music producer for performers like the Odd Squad, Devin the Dude, and the Coughee Brothaz.
This sub-series contains fliers collected by Carlos Garza. The first folder holds fliers specifically for Garza’s breakdancing group, the Dynamic Crew, while the second folder holds fliers for various musical artists.
This series contains fifteen audiocassettes collected by Carlos Garza. They are arranged alphabetically by artist within the box.
Personal papers, photographs, creative material and technology, sound recordings, and promotional material comprise the DJ Screw Papers. DJ Screw’s activities as a DJ and mixtape creator are the focus of the papers, and materials documenting these activities include lists for his screw tapes, sound recordings, production materials, including recording equipment, business documents, and photographs. All materials were owned by DJ Screw and donated by his father, Robert Earl Davis, Sr., unless otherwise noted.
This collection includes materials containing personal, financial, and contact information for DJ Screw and his associates. Access to these original materials is restricted in order to protect privacy, but some materials have publicly-available surrogates filed in place of the originals.
Digital access copies of the original screw tapes 1-5 can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room. Contact Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
Digital access copies of the original screw tapes 1-5 can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room. Contact Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
Item 1 is a screw tape that was created by DJ Screw for Lil' Randy, and distributed directly to Lil' Randy.
Items 2-5 are thought to be original cassette tapes (master screw tapes) from the live recording sessions, prior to being slowed down during the audiocassette duplication process used to produce the final screw tape. They were donated by DJ Screw's longtime girlfriend Nikki Williams. Items 5-14 may be a mix of master screw tapes and dubs. They were acquired from Screwed Up Records & Tapes.
This collection consists of materials related to the creation and production of the book Houston Rap, by photographer Peter Beste and writer Lance Scott Walker. These materials include digital photos taken by Beste, audio recordings and transcripts of interviews conducted by Walker, photo prints from the editing process of the book, exhibit prints of photos from the book, photo contact sheets, and dummy copies of the book. The collection also contains a significant amount of material collected by the authors from various Houston hip hop artists, including recorded music, t-shirts, towels, posters, promo cards, and other memorabilia. The collection is divided into four series: Digital Files, Houston Rap Production and Promotion, Hip Hop Promotional and Research Material, and Music and Video. An important note: many of the materials found within the Digital Files series contain subject matter that would fit into other series within this collection.
This series contains all of the digital materials received from Peter Beste and Lance Scott Walker, including digital photos, video, and interview audio files. Digital archival materials can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact Julie Grob at jgrob@uh.edu for more information.
This sub-series consists of nearly 25,000 files from a hard-drive belonging to Peter Beste. It includes thousands of documentary photographs, various versions of and promotional materials for the book Houston Rap, scans and photos of ephemera collected from Houston hip hop artists, and video and audio files. All of the materials in this sub-series are found within a top-level folder on the hard drive entitled “HOUSTON.” The sub-sub-series represent the second-level folders in the hierarchy, and the folders within each represent the third-level folders in the hierarchy. Sub-sub-series and folder titles are taken directly from the hard drive. Digital archival materials can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact Julie Grob at jgrob@uh.edu for more information.
This sub-sub-series contains photographs, postcards, and audio files collected from Houston hip hop artists, photographs taken of materials from the Hip Hop collections at the University of Houston, and other Houston hip hop ephemera collected by Walker and Beste.
This sub-sub-series contains materials related to the production and promotion of the book Houston Rap.
This sub-sub-series contains videos taken of members of the Houston hip hop community, usually either as part of an interview or for short promotional videos for the book Houston Rap.
This series contains thousands of documentary photos taken by Peter Beste while working on the book Houston Rap.
This series contains thousands of documentary photos taken by Peter Beste while working on the book Houston Rap.
This sub-series contains audio files and/or transcripts of interviews conducted by Lance Scott Walker with members of Houston’s hip hop community from 2005 to 2013. Each folder in this sub-series corresponds to a person who was interviewed and items within each folder represent audio files and transcripts associated with that person. Folders are arranged alphabetically by name, and folder descriptions were taken directly from an inventory provided by Beste and Walker. Digital archival materials can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact Julie Grob at jgrob@uh.edu for more information.
Member of the pioneering Houston rap group Royal Flush, who first emerged as battle rappers at the legendary Rhinestone Wrangler nightclub and later went on to release two albums on Rap-A-Lot. Topics include the late rapper Pimp C and his seldom-discussed religious beliefs. telephone interview (May 2012) audio.
Brother of the late DJ Screw and member of the Screwed Up Click who started his career with Houston label Jam Down Records. interview (2010) transcript + audio; telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Lesser known member of the South Park Coalition from Missouri City. Interview focuses on South Park and the scene surrounding it in the late '80s and early '90s. telephone interview (Fall 2010) transcript + audio
Houston entrepreneur and record producer who owns and operates Bam’s Auto Detailing in South Park, a community hub often talked about in Houston rap songs. He is the brother of Screwed Up Click member Mike-D, a.k.a. Bosshog Corleone. telephone interview (April 2012) audio; telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Former member of Convicts and Geto Boys whose real success came as a solo artist in the mid-'90s. He was later involved in a criminal incident of arson involving a Rap-A-Lot Records location and was imprisoned for years, now free and making music again. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Strip club promoter who provided access to after hours spots. telephone interview (November 2011) transcript + audio
Rapper/producer who was an early member of the group Royal Flush and is still an active producer. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Port Arthur born and raised rapper who was one half of UGK along with the late Pimp C. One of the most popular rappers in Houston. interview (2006) transcript + audio interview by Peter Beste (2012) audio + video
Important figure in Houston who has been an active MC and promoter in the rap community since the 1970s and is still part of the city's nightlife. He released one of the first Houston rap records with his single “Jack It Up” in 1984. telephone interview (Fall 2011) transcript + audio
Latino rapper best known for his 2007 album They Can’t Deport Us All. telephone interview (April 2012) audio
Younger member of the Screwed Up Click and also part of Slim Thug’s group Boss Hogg Outlawz. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Veteran rapper and notable voice in the South Park community in which her grandparents owned and operated the MLK Nite Club until Hurricane Ike destroyed it in 2008. telephone interview (Summer 2010) transcript + audio
Rapper/Producer who had at the time of the interview had already worked with UGK, Devin the Dude and Willie D before later relocating to Atlanta. telephone interview (2007) transcript
Veteran MC, b-boy, artist, and promoter active in Houston since the late 1980s. telephone interview (September 2008) transcript
Part of the newer wave of Houston rappers and one of very few artists from Baytown. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Houston DJ who started in the 1970s and pioneered the slowed down sound that DJ Screw would later adopt into his own genre. His mixtapes were the most popular in Houston's urban community throughout the 1980s. telephone interview (2007) transcript. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
The most popular Screwtape ever is June 27th, and it is Demo Sherman’s birthday tape. He is from Long Drive in South Park. telephone interview (October 2011) transcript + audio telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Owner and operator of Straight Profit Records. interview (2005) transcript
Owner and operator of Wreckshop Records, home of the late Fat Pat and the late Big Moe. telephone interview (2013) audio. interview (April 2014) transcript + audio
Producer and rapper for the Cloverland group Botany Boys. Conversations about DJ Screw and codeine cough syrup. telephone interview (Summer 2010) transcript + audio
Los Angeles transplant who is the promoter and manager for many artists in Houston. She worked closely with the late rapper Hawk. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Early friend of DJ Screw and still an active DJ all around Houston. Also runs a screen printing operation on the Southside. interview (2008) transcript + audio. telephone interview (2008) audio. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Longtime Houston DJ and member of the radio collective Kracker Nuttz. Native of South Park. telephone interview (June 2012) audio
Port Arthur born and raised DJ, producer, and rapper who wrote the 1998 hit “25 Lighters,” and later became a Christian minister in Houston. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Longtime DJ for Geto Boys, Scarface, and Devin the Dude. interview (2007) transcript
Lesser known member of the Screwed Up Click who now promotes a strip club on the South side of Houston near Missouri City. telephone interview (October 2011) transcript + audio. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Legendary Houston rapper and producer who is a founding member of the South Park Coalition and the early Rap-A-Lot artists The Terrorists. He has produced tracks for many Houston rappers over the years, and still makes records — now from his home base of Austin, TX. Also uses the alias Murdoq. telephone interview (Summer 2007) transcript. telephone interview (Fall 2010) transcript
Member of the group Guerilla Maab with Trae tha Truth and Z-Ro. interview by Peter Beste (2007) transcript
Female rapper who was a part of DJ Screw’s Screwed Up Click. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Louisiana-born rapper whose career took off with the 1995 hit "Swangin' & Bangin'." Member of the Screwed Up Click and a big player in the squashing of the Northside/Southside war that plagued Houston throughout the 1990s when he reached out to collaborate with Northside rapper Slim Thug. E.S.G. stands for "Everyday Street Gangsta." interview (2005) transcript
President of Swishahouse Records. interview (2006) transcript
One of a newer wave of Houston. telephone interview (December 2012) audio
DJ and producer from the group Street Military. Interviewed along with longtime collaborator Mr. Baldhead, who appeared in the Vice documentary "Screwed In Houston" in 2007. telephone interview (April 2012) audio
Rapper and radio host who is a powerful voice in the Houston community. Member of the South Park Coalition and the group The 144 ELiTE along with K-Rino, Dope E and Ashlei Mayadia. Hosts the radio program Friday Eve along with Optimo Ram. telephone interview (October 2010) transcript + audio. telephone interview (November 2011) transcript + audio. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Fifth Ward developer and community planner. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Rapper and member of the Screwed Up Click who is the only living member of the original Dead End Alliance (DJ Screw, Fat Pat, Hawk). telephone interview (2007) transcript
Original member of the group Street Military. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Early member of the South Park Coalition and unofficial member of Street Military interviewed soon after being released from prison. telephone interview (May 2012) transcript + audio
Damien Randle and Micah Nickerson of the group K-Otix (which also featured The ARE) on writing the “George Bush Doesn't Care About Black People” song. telephone interview (Summer 2008) transcript
One of the earliest rappers in Houston and founder of the South Park Coalition. Member of the groups C.O.D. (with Dope E) and The 144 ELiTE. One of Houston’s most prolific rappers. interview (2006) transcript + audio. interview (October 2010) transcript + audio
Southside rapper who gave us a tour around South Acres. interview (2007) transcript
Member of South Park Coalition who was close to DJ Screw. One of our first tour guides into the Houston communities. interview (2007) transcript
Pioneering member of the Screwed Up Click from Herschelwood who came up alongside Fat Pat. His biggest hit is "Southside," based on a dance that was one of many created by him and Fat Pat. interview (Spring 2006) transcript
Mixtape DJ who guested with Screw and is one of the only DJs still using Screw’s method of making tapes. telephone interview (Fall 2010) transcript + audio. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Rapper, producer and businessman from South Park's Dead End best known for his 1999 hit "Wanna Be A Baller." Had a well-publicized beef with the rapper Scarface, who first recorded with Troy as DJ Akshen and would later be accused by Troy of snitching for the government. Now runs a strip club on the East Side. telephone interview (September 2010) transcript + audio telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Member of the Screwed Up Click and brother of Macc Grace a.k.a. Dat Boy Grace. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Writer, promoter and radio host with deep Houston roots now based in Austin. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
New York-born longtime Fifth Ward denizen responsible for bringing a lot of Houston talent to the scene by booking their first shows for them. His interviews form a big part of both books. telephone interview (February 2010) transcript + audio. telephone interview (December 2011) transcript + audio
Host of numerous live radio broadcasts around Houston. Has been a fixture in the clubs since arriving in Houston in the early '90s. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Best known as the wife of the late rapper Hawk, Meshah was a presence in the Third Ward community before his death and even more so after his murder in 2006. She is the mother of his two young sons. This conversation talks about Third Ward history. telephone interview (December 2011) transcript + audio. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Member of the Screwed Up Click and the group Southside Playaz and close friend of the late Fat Pat and the late DJ Screw. Frequent collaborator of Z-Ro's. Brother of Bamino, a.k.a. BAM. Interviews conducted right after his release from prison for a piece by Walker for the Houston Chronicle. telephone interview (April 2012) audio. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Founder and owner of Beltway 8 Records who started his label in Prairie View, Texas even though its focus was in Houston. He was able to turn the label into a profitable venture before exiting the business in 2010, right at the time of this interview, to making cooking (specifically barbecue) a profession. telephone interview (January 2010) transcript + audio
Muslim minister in Houston and longtime advisor to many of the people featured in Houston Rap and Houston Rap Tapes. telephone interview (December 2011) transcript + audio
Southside car customizer who has operated a car wash in South Park for years. telephone interview (Spring 2010) transcript + audio
Original member of the South Park Coalition. Longtime collaborator of K-Rino with a solo career appearances on most all SPC-related releases. telephone interview (2008) transcript telephone interview (2010) transcript + audio
Radio host who has emerged in the last five years and filled a big void with virtually around the clock Houston music and talk on the radio. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Longtime program director at Texas Southern University’s KTSU, where the early Houston rap radio show Kidz Jamm debuted in the early 1980s. telephone interview (June 2012) audio
Wide-ranging interview with the white rapper who is rarely referred to as such. Topics include grills, blood diamonds, and performing for troops in war zones. telephone interview (January 2012) transcript + audio
Chicago-born rapper who moved to South Park as a teenager and joined the Screwed Up Click. Later signed to Bigtyme Recordz. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Member of the group often to referred to as the younger brothers of the late rapper Hawk, who was shot and killed in 2006. This interview talks about the night of the murder. interview (May 2007) transcript + audio
Former KPFT radio host who has been a punk/rap scene fixture in Houston since the late 1980s. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
The first Houston rapper signed to a major label, Raheem was an original member of Ghetto Boys before launching his solo career with A&M Records. Later signed to Rap-A-Lot. telephone interview (2008) transcript
Also known as DJ Troy Ski, he arrived in the city from Pittsburgh in the early 1980s and was a part of the early crews in the city before moving into the business side of things. Now involved in the sports industry. telephone interview (2012) audio
Original DJ/producer for Ghetto Boys/Geto Boys, who left the group in 1991 during the production of their platinum breakthrough album We Can't Be Stopped. telephone interview (Summer 2008) transcript + audio
South Park Coalition rapper who has been a lifelong friend of the rapper K-Rino. telephone interview (2010) transcript + audio
Founding member of Royal Flush and one of Houston's early battle rappers. He now hosts a radio show in Dallas under the name Coco Budda. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Early Northside rapper who went to high school with Willie D at Forest Brook and later became known as a formidable battle rapper and joined the group Royal Flush. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Owner and operator of Bigtyme Recordz, the first label to sign UGK, which has operated out of King’s Flea Market in South Park for over two decades. telephone interview (Fall 2011) transcript + audio
Austin-based producer who created the beat for the breakthrough Houston hit “Still Tippin’,” which touched off the mainstream explosion Houston experienced in 2005. telephone interview (Spring 2007) transcript
Underground rapper who leads the group known as H.I.S.D. (Hueston Independent Spit District), some of whom are Houston area teachers. Also a member of the group The Hue. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
One of DJ Screw's oldest friends and a Smithville, TX native (DJ Screw's hometown). Important interview subject in Houston Rap and Houston Rap Tapes. telephone interview (Winter 2008/2009) transcript + audio. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Rapper and promoter from Houston's Third Ward. telephone interview (Summer 2011) transcript + audio
Northside rapper who was featured on the breakthrough track "Still Tippin'" along with Mike Jones and Paul Wall. telephone interview (Spring 2013) transcript + audio
Current incarnation of the group that originally featured Fat Pat, Mike-D and Mr. 3-2. Upon Fat Pat's death, his place in the group was taken by Clay Doe. Interview with Mike-D, Mr. 3-2, and Clay Doe conducted on the street outside of the original Screwed Up Records & Tapes. interview (2006) transcript
Legendary Houston DJ who helped rap music break through to the big clubs and started the nation's first rap record pool. Talks about being arrested for playing rap music in Houston nightclubs. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Swishahouse producer who started as an intern and worked his way up to having his own label under the Swishahouse umbrella. He was one of the architects of the 2005 Houston juggernaut. interview (2006) transcript
Producer from the group K-Otix who has since worked with stars as big as LL Cool J, Lone Catalysts, and Phife from A Tribe Called Quest. telephone interview (2007) transcript telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Car customizer who grew up in Houston’s Third Ward and now owns a shop in Austin. telephone interview (October 2011) transcript + audio
Former pimp and member of the South Park Coaltion who has converted over to Christianity and now writes books. telephone interview (2007) transcript
Part of the second wave of rappers to become part of the Screwed Up Click and longtime collaborator of Z-Ro’s. Member of the groups S.L.A.B., Guerilla Maab, and ABN. telephone interview (March 2012) audio
Former Rice University DJ whose Friday night radio program Bass 9-1-7 Zone was pioneering in the Houston radio market. telephone interview (2012) audio
One of the first Houston rappers. Battle rapper who turned solo artist and then joined Geto Boys, with a parallel solo career and short stint as a professional boxer, following in the footsteps of his uncle Melvin Dennis. interview 2007 transcript. telephone interview (April 2010) transcript + audio. telephone interview (December 2011) transcript + audio. telephone interview (May 2012) audio
Lesser-known member of the Screwed Up Click who tells a story of growing up with a mother addicted to crack and how he turned his and her lives around. telephone interview (2008) transcript
One of the most widely respected and prolific artists in Houston, and one of the biggest draws at Houston's massive rap clubs. Founding member of the groups Guerilla Maab and ABN and a member of the Screwed Up Click. interview (September 2011) transcript + audio + video
This series contains photo prints, contact sheets, proofs, and mock-ups used in the production of the book Houston Rap, along with exhibit prints, stickers, publications, and promo cards used to promote the book and its authors. The series is divided into three sub-series: Photo Prints and Contact Sheets, Book Mock-Ups and Proofs, and Houston Rap Promotional Materials and Publications. Additional materials relating to the production and promotion of Houston Rap can be found in the Digital Files series.
Note: These items are hanging in the Special Collections stacks on the West wall.
This series contains T-shirts, posters, promo cards, photographs, correspondence, publications, and memorabilia collected by Peter Beste and Lance Scott Walker from hip hop artists and other members of the hip hop community in Houston during their work on the book Houston Rap. It is divided into six sub-series: T-shirts and Towels; Posters, Poster Flats, and Promo Cards; Photographs; Correspondence; Memorabilia; and Publications. Scans and photos of additional materials collected by Beste and Walker from members of Houston’s hip hop community can be found in the Digital Files series.
This series contains audio and video recordings collected by Beste and Walker during their work on the book Houston Rap. It also contains a small number of handwritten lyrics. This series is divided into four subseries: Handwritten lyrics, Compact discs, Audiocassettes, and 45 rpm records. In addition to the items listed below, 22 DVDs, 4 VHS tapes, 180 compact discs, 17 audiocassettes, and 19 vinyl records were removed for cataloguing
This collection contains documents, photographs, publications, and memorabilia relating to Steve Fournier and his work as a DJ, Rap Pool of America founder, and hip hop promoter in Houston in the 1980s and 1990s. The collection is divided into five series: Rap Performer Contracts, Rap Pool of America Documents, Photographs, Memorabilia, and Publications. Of particular note is the Rap Performer Contracts series which contains performance contracts for several prominent rappers, including Eazy-E, Sir Mix-A-Lot, N.W.A., Public Enemy, and Ice-T.
This series contains contracts in which rappers agree to perform at Houston clubs. They are arranged chronologically.
This series contains several different types of memorabilia collected by Steve Fournier and is divided into these sub-series: Badges, Concert Tickets, and Business Cards.
This collection contains Alesis Digital Audio Tapes (ADATs), invoices, photographs, and posters from Samplified Digital Recording Studios and is divided into four series: Recordings, Invoices, Promotional Materials, and Photographs. The ADATs contain recordings by many prominent Houston hip hop artists, mostly notably several sets of tapes containing master recordings by DJ Screw. Due to the fragility of the original ADATs, they cannot be played directly, but digital access files are available.
This series contains 190 Alesis Digital Audio Tapes, or ADATs, recorded at Samplified Studios. ADAT is a magnetic tape format used for the simultaneous digital recording of eight analogue audio or digital audio tracks at once. ADATs became very popular among recording studios in the 1990s due to their high quality and affordability. The tapes in this series contain recordings by many prominent Houston hip hop artists, mostly notably several sets of tapes containing master recordings by DJ Screw. The tapes are arranged alphabetically by artist, and titles were taken directly from the tapes. Due to the fragility of the original ADATs, they cannot be played directly. Digital copies of the individual audio tracks can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact Julie Grob (jgrob@uh.edu) for more information.
This series contains invoices created by Samplified Digital Recording Studios between 1995 and 1997. Invoices have been left in their original order within the folder.
The Promotional material series is divided into two sub-series by format; Posters and Promo Cards.
The Posters sub-series is arranged alphabetically by the artist or label; most folders contain one to four posters. Most of these posters hung on the walls at Samplified Digital Recording Studios, and many are signed by the artists.
This series is divided into two sub-series: Personal Photographs and Promotional Photographs. The personal photographs sub-series contains photos taken at the studio, and the promotional photographs sub-series contains signed promotional photographs from artists given to the studio.
The Houston Hip Hop Recording Artists Collection was started in 2010 as part of an effort to document the history of Houston Hip Hop. This collection is an artificial collection and incorporates smaller collections donated by DJs, rappers, business owners, and the hip hop community. SoSouth was particularly helpful in starting this collection.
The collection is divided into four series: Promotional Material, Publications, Personal Material, and Photographs. The Promotional Materials contains the bulk of the collection and is further subdivided into eight subseries by format: Posters, Poster Flats, Flyers, Event Cards and Memorabilia, Cards, Promotional Kits, Photographs, and Memorabilia.
Acquisition details:
Materials were donated by a variety of individuals and businesses, including SoSouth, Richard Johnson, K-Rino, Thomas Molinar, Jr., Screwed Up Records and Tapes, Dat Boi T, White Tim, Ace Deuce, El Franco Lee II, Terry Moore, Ariel Santschi, and Lil C.
Note: Information about the donor for specific items may be available upon request. Please contact Houston Hip Hop Collections curator Julie Grob by emailing jgrob@uh.edu for more information.
The Promotional Material series is further subdivided into subseries by format, including posters, poster flats, flyers, promotional cards picked up at specific area events, other promotional cards, promotional kits, and other assorted memorabilia. Promotional photographs have been moved to a separate Photographs series.
The Posters subseries is divided into two sub-subseries. The Artists and Labels sub-subseries is indexed by the artist or label; most of the artists and labels poster files contain one to four posters.
Poster flats are promotional items that are the same size and shape as vinyl album sleeves and include an album’s cover artwork.
This collection contains meeting minutes, treasury reports, correspondence, and documents related to the meetings of the Political Association of Spanish Speaking Organizations (PASSO).
This collection also contains documents about the organization of the Conferencia de Mujeres por la Raza. Lastly, this collection contains some typewritten copies of biographies of famous individuals. Materials are arranged chronologically.
This series contains meeting minutes, treasury reports, and other operational documents of PASSO.
This series contains organizing documents from the National Chicana Conference.
This series contains typewritten copies of the book Masters of Achievement in English, and a document entitled “Datos Biograficos” in Spanish, which includes biographical data on various historical figures.
The Emilio R. Ypiñia Journals is a manuscript collection consisting of 5 distinct journals authored by Emilio R. Ypiñia (1905-1936). Each volume contains approximately 100 pages and 10-20 poems, essays, and journal entries authored throughout the 1930s, the bulk in 1933.
There are approximately 50 distinct poems and sections of prose in the collection, as well as variations of certain works. Each “Scholastic” bound volume reveals Ypiñia’s observations of the world around him and his reflections on society, spirituality, international relations, and world history. A few of the specific topics mentioned include: masculinity, Asian philosopher Confucius, and the inequalities present in his local Houston neighborhood, Magnolia Park.
The second journal in the Ypinia Collection includes an insert, a Letter addressed to the Houston Press Editor, dated October 17, 1935 (2 loose pages), twenty brief works listed in the index, and one that was not mentioned, ¿Levanaho o Maya?. Major and recurring themes in Ypinia’s prose focus on self-reflection, society’s influence on individuals, spirituality, colonization and imperialism. Insert, Ypinia to Editor of the Houston Press, October 17, 1935 “Ensayes” ¡Solo Tu!.| Only You!. ¡Guardando la fe! | Keeping the faith! Porque Rezar. | Why Pray. En Sociedad. | In Society. Contemplacion y Accion. | Contemplation and Action. La Familia y Comunidad. | Family and Community El Ensaye en Gris. | Essay in Gray En Rojo. | In Red En Azul. | In Blue En Blanco y Negro. | In White and Black. Flores. | Flowers. (February 1926) Biografia Corta. | Short Biography. Una Página de Hugo. | A Page from Hugo Hombre y Máquinas. |  Man and Machines. **(¿Levanah o Maya?) | **(Levanah or Maya?) En Critica. | In Criticism Fe y Seguridad. | Faith and Security. Alpha. | Alpha. En Construcciones. | In Constructions Tres Mujeres. | Three Women. Yo He Fracasado. | I Have Failed.
Ypinia’s third journal includes writings mostly authored in 1933. The subject matter of his prose spans a range of topics including but not limited to Western and Eastern deities, mortality, the purpose of man, social inequalities, his local Houston Community (Magnolia Park), and the dynamics of gender. Some of the specific individuals and figures mentioned include: Zhuang Zhou, Jesus Christ, and Buddha. Not mentioned among the fifteen titled works listed in the table of contents are: En Baytown | In Baytown, Carlota Corday | Charlotte Corday, Maria Antoineta | Marie Antoinette, De Mis Derrotas | Of my Defeats, Como Se Aprende | How one Learns, Nuestras Relaciones Sexuales | Our Sexual Relations, ¿Metafisical? | Metaphysical?, Nuestra Recompensa | Our Reward, Dampierre | Dampierre, La Higuera Maldita | The Cursed Fig Tree, Retirando los Hilos | Removing the Strings, El Error | The Error, Generosidad | Generosity, Vivir Yo | I Live, Viajando | Traveling, Por Professió, Virir | Living for your Profession, Por la Idea | For the Idea, Nuestra Amada | Our Beloved, Concoder para Obtener | Concede to Obtain, Otra Año | Another Year, and Magnolia Park, Julio 29, 1933 | Magnolia Park, July 29, 1933. Indices.| Index. 1. Samsara y Dharma. | Samsara and Dharma. 2. Enojosa Illusión. | Angry Illusion. 3. ¡El Dragon Llora! | The Dragon Weeps! 4. ¿Levánah o Maya?. | Levánah or Maya? 5. Parralelos. | Parallels. 6. Religión y Mujer. | Religion and Woman. (May 8, 1933) 7. Breves Ensayes. | Brief Essays. (I. En Baytown | In Baytown) (II. Carlota Corday | Charlotte Corday) (III. Maria Antoineta | Marie Antoinette) (IV. De Mis Derrotas | Of my Defeats) (V. Como Se Aprende | How one Learns) (VI. Nuestras Relaciones Sexuales | Our Sexual Relations) (VII. ¿Metafisical? | Metaphysical?) (VIII. Nuestra Recompensa | Our Reward) (IX. Dampierre | Dampierre (X. La Higuera Maldita | The Cursed Fig Tree) (VI. Retirando los Hilos | Removing Yarns) (VII. El Error | The Error) 8. Imparcialidad. | Impartiality. 9. Danza. | Dance. 10. De la Pobreza. | On Poverty. 11. En Decrepitud. | In Decrepitude. 12. Del la Cultura. | On Culture. 13. La Tortuga de Chuang. | The Turtle of Chuang 14. Ensaye en Amistad. | An Essay on Friendship. 15. Breves Ensayes. | Brief Essays. (I. Generosidad | Generosity) (II. Vivir Yo | I Live) (III. Viajando | Traveling) (IV. Por Professió, Virir | Living for your Profession) (V. Por la Idea | For the Idea) (VI. Nuestra Amada | Our Beloved) (VII. Concoder para Obtener | Concede to Obtain) (VIII. Otra Año | Another Year), 1933) (Magnolia Park, Julio 29, 1933 | Magnolia Park, July 29, 1933)
Journal 4 in the collection contains ten works, one distinctly appears to be a poem, Princesa de Han, and the rest short stories or prose. Many of the works make reference to Eastern philosophers and various figures in world history, among them are Confucius and Louis XVI of France. Indices. | Index 1. El Monje Pedro. | El Monje Pedro 2. Irene. | Irene. 3. Una Mujer de China. | A Woman From China 4. Princesa de Han. | Han Princess. 5. Tzu Kung. | Tzu Kung. 6. El Campanero de Coventry. | The Bell Man of Conventry 7. Liliam de Ancrum | Liliam de Ancrum 8. El Brazo de Lady Douglas.| Lady Douglas’ Arm 9. Manial Saludo. | Manial Greeting. 10. Victoria. | Victoria.
Journal 5 in the collection contains the highest number of works, many of which seem to be drafts included in the other four composition books. Topics mentioned in this particular volume include identify man’s place in society, racist organizations such as the Ku Kux Klan Kubano, and self-growth and discovery. Indices | Index Vito Bering | Vito Bering ( October 29, 1933) Educacional Problemas | Educational Problems (November, 1933) El Poder de la Fe | The Power of Faith (November 3, 1933) Nuestro Mejor Elogio | Our Best Compliment (April , 1931) Nuestro Año de Depresión | Our Year of Depression (1932 Magnolia..) Ku Kux Klan Kuban | Ku Kux Klan Kuban (October 20, 1933) Aristocracia | Aristocracy (October 15, 1933) Anomalidades | Anomalies (November 5, 1933) Guardando la Fe | Keeping the Faith La Verdad es Triste | The Truth is Sad (September 12, 1933) El Lugar y el Hombre | Place and Man (November 9, 1933) Longuevidad | Longevity (ca. 1934) La Tortuga de Chuang | Chuang’s Turtle Carta en Religion | Religious Card (November 1932) Msr. Eugenio Sur | Msr. Eugenio Sur Un Pueblo en Tejas, Baytown | A Town in Texas, Baytown Una Escapatoria | An Escape Francisco Solano Lopez | Francisco Solano Lopez Humanidad Viciosa | Immoral Society Las Ventajas del Camino | The Advantages of the Road
The collection is approximately .5 linear feet and consists primarily of documents, correspondence, organization records, photographs and clippings. A significant part of the collection is comprised of photocopies.
Organized into two series, Series I, Jose R. Lopez Papers, and Series II, Mary F. Lopez Papers, the collection includes materials related to Ms. Mary F. Lopez life as a homemaker, wife, activist, and her career.
Documents related to Mr. Jose R. Lopez’s time in WWII are of note, as are photographs of Cesar Chavez in series II. Ms. Lopez met Chavez in the 1960s during one of his visits in support of Mexican-American labor in the region.
The Texas Music Collection contains research files on the history of Texas music, particularly musicians and record labels, including the administrative and financial files of Duke/Peacock records, of the Houston area. Newspaper clippings, photographs, financial records, songbooks, and administrative files comprise the research files.
The collection is divided into six series, which are arranged in order of volume of material, from most to least represented: I. Artists, II. Production and Events, III. Geography, IV. Genres, V. Reference, and VI. Ephemera. The Production and Events series is further divided into five subseries: 1. Labels and Studios, 2. Radio, 3. Producers, 4. Venues, and 5. Record Shops.
The Artists series contains files on various Texas music artists and typically contains biographical information and materials documenting their recording careers. Formats represented in this series include photographs, correspondence, newspaper clippings, and promotional materials.
The Production and Events series comprises a range of material documenting the production of Texas music and is further divided into subseries pertaining to: Labels and Studios, Radio Stations, Producers, Venues, and Record Shops.
The Geographic series contains files on major regions in Texas music. Photographs and printed material, especially newspaper clippings and newsletters, comprise the majority of the series.
The Genres series contains files on Texas Rock and Zydeco music. Printed material, correspondence, and photographs comprise the bulk of the series.
The Reference series includes printed material, such as magazines and directories, used by Andrew Brown for his research on Texas Music. The music historian Mack McCormick also has a file in this series.
The Ephemera series contains oversize publication and promotional materials and photographs from the research files.
The KUHT Collection includes film reels, videotapes, correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, photographs, and related material dating from the 1950s through the 1990s. The bulk of the material dates from the mid-1960s to 1990s with a few photographs dating to the early to mid-1950s.
Please contact the collection curator Emily Vinson (evinson@uh.edu) for further information regarding all film and video material.
The series in the Collection include: Discrepancy Files, Development and Production Files by Jim Fisher and Paul Yeager, Gulf Region Education Television Affiliates (GRETA), Photographs, Ephemera, and Awards.
Visit the University of Houston Libraries Audio/Video Repository to access more than 750 videos from the KUHT Collection. Digitization and access for these items was made possible by grants from the U.S. Institute of Museum and Library Services and Texas State Library and Archives Commission (2017) and Recordings at Risk from the Council on Library and Information Resources (CLIR) made possible by funding from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation (2019).
Produced documentary as well as 136 film elements.
Produced documentary as well as 227 film elements.
59 tapes including produced documentary and work tapes.
105 tapes including produced documentary and work tapes.
62 tapes.
Produced documentary and 269 work tapes including interviews and footage from “Wings Over Houston 1993” and “Wings Over Midland.”
12 tapes including produced program and work tapes.
8 tapes including produced program and work tapes.
5 tapes.
294 tapes including produced program and work tapes.
19 tapes.
11 tapes.
36 tapes including produced program, work tapes and interviews.
200 tapes including produced program, work tapes and interviews.
Including produced documentary and work tapes.
33 tapes including produced program and work tapes.
134 tapes including produced program and work tapes.
Series of interviews with Carl Jung hosted by University of Houston psychology professor Dr. Richard I. Evans.
Houston elementary physical education program.
Three reels.
Series of interviews with leading psychologists of the day by University of Houston psychology professor Dr. Richard I. Evans.
Funded by National Educational Television, People Are Taught to be Different was a 12-part series written and produced by Texas Southern University sociology professor Dr. Henry Allen Bullock, and performed by TSU students. This series was an anthropological study on black life based around the “idea that racial discrimination has to be literally taught, that people are not naturally prejudiced.”
Six produced episodes featuring notable economists and hosted by Pierre Rinfret and 56 reels of duplicate episodes and production elements.
Financial literacy program co-produced by Texas Southern University.
6 episodes.
15 tapes.
69 tapes.
5 episodes.
188 tapes including produced episodes, work tapes, demos, etc.
217 episodes available online (https://av.lib.uh.edu/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&search_field=all_fields&q=almanac). Digitization and access for these items made possible by a grant from the U.S. Institute of Museum and Library Services and Texas State Library and Archives Commission (2017).
5 tapes.
402 tapes including produced programs, work tapes, dubs, etc.
4 episodes.
130 tapes including produced programs, work tapes, dubs, etc.
23 tapes.
8 tapes.
50 tapes including produced programs, work tapes, dubs, etc.
32 tapes.
88 episodes.
85 episodes available online (https://av.lib.uh.edu/catalog?utf8=%E2%9C%93&search_field=all_fields&q=capitol+report). Digitization and access for these items made possible by a grant from the U.S. Institute of Museum and Library Services and Texas State Library and Archives Commission (2017).
26 episodes.
15 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
10 episodes.
Produced programs for 1992 and 1993.
84 tapes.
58 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
including produced programs and work tapes.
13 episodes.
219 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
4 tapes.
10 episodes and work tapes.
16 episodes.
10 tapes.
4 tapes.
17 tapes including work tapes and donor appreciation event.
7 episodes.
17 tapes.
Including produced programs and work tapes.
8 episodes.
12 tapes.
9 tapes.
68 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
19 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
3 episodes and work tapes.
101 tapes.
12 tapes.
7 episodes.
27 tapes.
947 tapes including produced programs, work tapes, and interviews.
51 tapes.
100 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
Episodes #1-#12.
11 episodes.
8 episodes.
790 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
114 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
Episodes #1-#18.
108 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
47 tapes.
9 tapes including produced programs and inserts.
87 tapes.
3 episodes.
177 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
Episodes #1-#5, plus two tapes labeled "Party."
7 tapes including work tapes and airchecks.
15 tapes.
37 tapes.
4 episodes.
11 tapes.
122 tapes.
44 tapes.
224 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
46 episodes.
21 tapes.
241 episodes, may include duplicates.
37 tapes.
60 tapes.
30 tapes.
76 tapes.
355 tapes.
Episodes #1-#5.
477 tapes including produced programs and work tapes.
79 tapes.
3 reels
8 reels
No sound on film.
4 reels.
No sound on film.
No sound on film.
Wharton County: El Campo; Liberty County: Liberty, Cleveland, Dayton; Montgomery County: Historical buildings, Conroe.
39 reels.
Fuller, Smith & Ross Nixon.
Production of the American Petroleum Institute.
United Way of Texas Gulf Coast.
Telethon to benefit the Gonzales Warm Springs Foundation.
Production of the Houston Chamber of Commerce.
Production of the Houston Chamber of Commerce.
Production of Coronet Film.
Paramount
Production of the Waterman Steamship Corporation.
Production of the Humble Oil Company.
The Advertising Council
Production of CBS News.
The Mexico Documents Collection is a result of combining several smaller artificial collections into one in order to improve organization and facilitate access. The collection chronicles the history of Mexico from Spanish rule to the Mexican Revolution. The material has been arranged chronologically into four series: the Colonial Period to Mexican Independence to the Mexican-American War, the Mexican-American War to the Mexican Revolution, and documents with unknown dates. The bulk of the collection is from the period from Mexican Independence to the end of the Mexican-American War (1825-1849).
The documents primarily consist of personal and official correspondence, government orders, decrees, and announcements of Mexican officials. Notable individuals include Santa Anna de Lopez, Jose Joaquin de Hererra and Porfirio Diaz. Additionally, some materials document American military actions in Mexico during the Mexican-American War. Lastly, there are an assortment of documents chronicling religion in Mexico as well as business and land transactions.
Many of the documents have English translations available as well as biographical information.
Paper records related to Frontier Fiesta, dating from 1941 to 2006. Materials have been arranged by series, and chronologically within each. Materials found in this collection include programs, newspaper clippings, financial records, contracts, applications, rules and regulations, show scripts, correspondence, and photographs.
Series 7 contains digital archival materials produced in 2014.
Side 1 1. :23 Richard Widmark 2. :22 Richard Widmark 3. :23 Bill Roberts 4. :22 Bill Roberts 5. :28 Eddy Arnold 6. :17 Eddy Arnold 7. :11 Eddy Arnold 7A. :25 Oscar Holcombe (same as track 8 on side 2)
Side 2 8. :25 Oscar Holcombe 9. :28 Oscar Holcombe 10. :26 A. J. Montalbano 11. :23 Buster Kern 12. :22 Buster Kern 13. :24 Paul Hochuli 14. :20 Paul Hochuli 15. :45 Hebert & Wishnow
Side 1 (Western) 1. Jerry Jerico 2. Jack Derrick - Straight 3. Jack Derrick - Comedy 4. Hank Thompson 5. Biff Collie - Straight
6. Biff Collie - Comedy 7. Background Guitar for Fiesta Pitch
Side 2 (Popular) 1. Mayor Roy Hofheinz 2. Sheriff Buster Kern 3. Chief Jack Heard 4. Bill Roberts 5. Johnny Desmond 6. Peggy King 7. Ed Sullivan
This series contains digital archival materials, which can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. Digital materials include photos from Frontier Fiesta 2014, and interviews of Frontier Fiesta alumni conducted by Student Video Network. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact University Archivist Mary Manning at mmmanning@uh.edu for more information.
The eleven series of Lynn Randolph Papers are housed in three boxes and contain documentation of her exemplary training and career in the visual fine arts including exhibits, shows, reviews, individual art projects, and collaborations. The documentation of her longtime feminist and human rights activism in Houston and abroad is also an important part of the collection just as it is her life. Lynn Randolph's collaboration, both visual and literary, with Donna Haraway is represented as is her work for the Women's Action Coalition, the Women's Caucus for Art and the El Salvador Project. Collected published works by Ms. Randolph and others have been separated and cataloged to Special Collections. Also, the list of these catalogued items is found in Box 3, Folder 75.
The Paintings series includes 10 compact discs containing digital images of Lynn Randolph's paintings. The files can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@uh.edu) for more information. This collection includes Resurrection Metropolitan Community Church (RMCC) documents, as well as photographs and a film of Ralph Lasher. The collection includes RMCC’s financial and administrative documents, as well as flyers and advertisements. It also includes documents from religious conferences and exercises. The photo collection documents the lives of Ralph Lasher and his partner, as well as events at RMCC and in the Houston LGBT community. Also included are the awards and plaques of Eugene Harrington.
Montgomery ,TX
Montgomery ,TX
Lee @ Nautilus, Hitchhiker Safeway Sweeper - Joe Ringland and Solar Installers Skateboard #s
Counselor, Kroger Center, In Car @ Milby PK, Tattooed, Pictures, See + Wave, Football, Palm Tree Trim
H. H., Wavers & Lookers W.D.C., Milby Park Tsn Blond w/ Necklass Hunky blond(s) @ My 7-11
The Hulk Married w/ Pipe Post Hole Digger
Cute Boxy #'s - Buccaneer Collee Green - HYBL + Viking Bee, Super BL @ Mt. Vernon, Fuzzy Blond off Gemini
Dated probably 80-81 -ldc
Records in this collection of Tenneco history include three major areas of interest. One group consists of management and planning records created by executives of Tenneco. The second group reflects a joint effort to write the history of Tenneco, Built from Scratch. Draft manuscripts, publication costs, and a Tenneco management reunion reflect the concerted effort to document the company’s history. A third group contains in-house publications reflecting Tenneco’s business accomplishments and publications from a variety of sources that constitute energy industry profiles. A small group of ephemera includes a vinyl record album, photographs, and maps.
(See Box 13, Folder 15 for related CD)
In addition to materials described in this series, oversize Industry Profiles are available in Series 11.
In addition to materials described in this series, oversize Tenneco publications are available in Series 11.
(text document in Box 2, Folder 4)
This collection consists of 59 exhibition panels, two large light boxes with transparencies, and mounting hardware. The exhibition purports to show fifty Hines projects, but the materials received from the donor include only 48.
In 2007 the American Institute of Architects, Houston Chapter celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Hines Company with an exhibition entitled, “HINES / 50 YEARS / 50 SELECTED WORKS.” The exhibition appeared at the AIA Houston offices and at the gallery of the Williams Tower in Houston. The large text panel describes the content of the exhibition as follows:
HINES / 50 YEARS / 50 SELECTED WORKS
Ultimately, the remarkable legacy of Hines will be measured in the powerful and profound architecture it has constructed throughout the world. Gerald D. Hines is known for his singular ability to do the right thing at the right time. His vision and architectural sensibility have consistently driven decisions since 1957 when he hired Neuhaus & Taylor, a premier Houston architectural firm, to design his first small development. The measured growth of Hines from a one-man show to an international operation of 3,350 employees began with the transformation of the Richmond Avenue Corridor. Expanding into downtown Houston, Hines remade the city’s skyline engendering national recognition that remade the city’s reputation as well. From Houston, Hines reached into other large U.S. cities with projects that, like the Houston buildings, attracted attention for extraordinary design, innovative construction, and workable space. By the 1990s international projects, first in Mexico and Europe then Asia, rivaled those in the U.S. in terms of size and architectural significance.
The 50 projects in this exhibition were carefully chosen to show chronological, geographic, and architectural diversity. Each represents many others that could have been included. Architectural firms headquartered in Houston – Neuhaus & Taylor, Wilson, Morris Crain & Anderson (now Morris Architects), and Kendall/Heaton Associates stand alongside nationally known architects such as Cesar Pelli, Frank Gehry, Philip Johnson, Kevin Roche, David Childs, Bruce Graham, Eugene Kohn, Mario Cucinella, Norman Foster, I.M. Pei, Harry Cobb, Robert A.M. Stern, and many others. Hines buildings are never formulaic, and even those designed by the same architect are distinctive. The variety of building types, spaces, places and architecture that Hines continues to develop brings richness to an oeuvre that will engage and fascinate generations to come.
THIS EXHIBITION IS SPONSORED BY
AIA Houston – Aker Zvonkovic Photography – Baker & Botts, LLP – Harvey Builders – Haynes Whaley Associates – HILL – Kendall/Heaton Associates
This collection includes writings by Royal Dixon as well as other authors close to Dixon, biographical material, materials related to his teaching and his leadership of organizational activity, correspondence, research notes from his writings, and newspaper clippings the author collected. The collection is arranged to the folder level preserving the original arrangement as much as possible.
This collection includes anthologies and journals that contain Estess’ poetry and reviews. Whole volumes are arranged alphabetically by journal title. In addition, the collection includes copies and tear sheets of various other poems and writings by the author. These are arranged alphabetically according to the title of the work or the title of the original publication. Estess’ original folder labels and organization have been retained.
This collection contains deeds, abstracts of title, legal files, real estate sales records, and many other materials related to businesses and properties held by various members of the Detering family from 1871-1989. The collection has been divided into five series: Properties, Legal Files, Trust and Estate Papers, Business Papers, and Financial Papers. Folders within each series (or subseries) are arranged chronologically.
This collection contains drafts, revisions, editorial notes, and writings pertaining to the works of American novelist and poet Olive Hershey. The collection is divided into two series: Truck Dance and Other Works. Within each series, folders and items were left in the original order in which they were received from the author. Of particular interest are drafts of various chapters of Truck Dance containing revisions and notes from fellow American novelists Donald Barthelme, under whom Hershey studied while in the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston, and Tracy Daugherty, another student of Barthelme’s and graduate of the Creative Writing Program.
This series contains chapter and full drafts of Hershey’s novel Truck Dance. Many of the chapter drafts contain revisions and notes from American novelists Donald Barthelme and Tracy Daugherty. Folders were kept in their original order and original folder titles were used.
The Texas Medical Center: A History of the Founding Years, 1941-1980 is an unpublished photocopied typescript (232 pages) consisting of a Preface, nine chapters, and a bibliography. In this manuscript completed sometime during 1982-83, Tinsley connects the role of local philanthropy, development of federal funding priorities, and the national escalation of focus on cancer research to explain the unique growth and renown of the Texas Medical Center.
Manuscript covers medical center development from 1941 through 1980. Although an unpublished work for hire, this manuscript reflects development of a major facet in Houston’s rise as a city of international significance.
This collection contains materials produced by or related to the Immanuel and Helen Olshan Texas Music Festival held at the University of Houston. Collection materials date from 1985 to 2013, though the majority of materials are from 1991 to 2013. Materials are concentrated in the Houston area, though programs from concerts in Atlanta and Leipzig are also included.
Programs, concert schedules, festival calendars, unused application materials, invitations, correspondence, photographs, posters, publications, press clippings, a scrapbook, and numerous concert recordings are included. Also included is a Texas Music Festival Day Proclamation by Houston Major Bill White. Most of the later programs are included, but those from the 1990s are incomplete.  The digital concert recordings date from 2000-2011, but holdings are incomplete.
This series contains assorted Texas Music Festival Programs from 1992-2013. Included are Festival Programs and materials related to various TMF institutes and concerts. These include the Classical Minds Guitar Festival, Piano Institute, Jazz Institute, and Chamber Music Concerts. Programs have been arranged by date.
This series contains materials related to the promotion and coverage of the Texas Music Festival. Materials have been arranged by function, except for oversized materials which have been separated. Most promotional and press materials date from 1991-2013, though at least one poster dates from 1985. Many materials such as concert schedules, festival calendars, unused application materials, invitations, correspondence, photographs, and posters were produced by the Festival or its affiliates. The series also includes materials produced by other sources, including Festival coverage in magazines and press clippings. Also included is a scrapbook, which has been disbound and its contents placed into 6 folders. The scrapbook includes a variety of TMF materials such as programs, invitations, press clippings, and correspondence, which have been maintained together rather than sorted into the other series. Oversize materials in this series include oversize posters, photographs, and a Texas Music Festival Day Proclamation by Houston Major Bill White.
disbound
This series features concert recordings from the Texas Music Festival ranging from 2000-2011. Approximately 200 recordings are available in their entirety, and partial recordings are available for approximately 25 more. These recordings arrived in the archives on CDs, but have been transferred off of these fragile media. Recordings are available digitally and can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Mary Manning (mmmanning@uh.edu) for more information.
This collection primarily consists of correspondence from Captain O.C. McDavid during his service in World War II in the South Pacific. The collection also includes a handful of correspondence addressed to Captain McDavid, newsletters from his service, memorabilia collected while abroad, a sketch drawn by Captain McDavid, newspaper clippings, and Letters from OC: The War Years--1940 through 1945, compiled by Gene McDavid.
Correspondence from Captain McDavid is arranged chronologically while letters addressed to Captain McDavid have been arranged alphabetically by author. The remaining materials have been arranged chronologically.
Correspondence from Captain O.C. McDavid is arranged chronologically and primarily focuses on his tour of duty in the South Pacific during World War II. Many of the letters are illustrated with cartoons and drawings.
Correspondence addressed to Captain O.C. McDavid is arranged alphabetically by author.
Newsletters and a fragment of a newsletter collected by Captain O.C. McDavid during his tour of duty are arranged chronologically.
Memorabilia include items acquired by Captain O.C. McDavid during his time abroad serving in World War II.
Included is a sketch drawn by Captain O.C. McDavid depicting facilities constructed in their military camp.
Clippings include portions of articles related to soldiers in World War II, including a portion of a letter from Captain O.C. McDavid, and a cartoon.
Binder, assembled by O.C. McDavid’s son, includes photocopies of the various items in the collection as well as some items unavailable as originals in the collection.
The This is Our Home, It Is Not for Sale Film Collection contains records covering the full scope of the production of a documentary film. Records cover fundraising activities, releases and contracts, insurance, research materials, production notes and logs, film screenings and festivals, photographs, and posters.
The documentary film is available for viewing on DVD in UH Libraries Special Collections and for purchase at http://thisisourhomeitisnotforsale.com.
The collection contains typed and handwritten drafts of poems and other writings, as well as correspondence, photographs, clippings, and memorabilia related to Cynthia Macdonald’s life and work as an accomplished poet and co-founder of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Houston. In addition to the extensive accumulation of multiple drafts of her writings, Macdonald’s trove of correspondence is of particular interest, featuring letters to and from writing friends, colleagues, and family members. The collection as a whole also documents Macdonald’s teaching career, psychoanalysis career, personal life, and family history.
The collection is divided into ten series: Writing; Correspondence; Writing Career; Writings by Others; Teaching Career; Psychoanalysis Career; Personal; Audiovisual; Electronic Media; and Family History. The Writing series and Correspondence series are thoroughly processed in detail, while the remaining series are arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite their availability to researchers. Each series is prefaced by a detailed description.
The Writing Series is the most robust series of the collection, comprising Cynthia Macdonald’s written works in various genres. The material includes typescripts, handwritten drafts, printed materials, and photocopies of published pieces. The series is divided into seven sub-series: Poetry; Fiction; Nonfiction; Autobiography; Journals, Diaries, and Dreams; Psychoanalysis; and Other Writings. (Further description of each sub-series is provided in the corresponding section below.) Wherever possible, folders are labeled according to Macdonald’s own organization.
Cynthia Macdonald generally organized her poetry files into four categories: Poems Collected in Books; Individual Poems; Poetry Fragments and Untitled Poems; and Poetry Ideas and Research. Some overlap is evident from one section to the next, as Macdonald filed multiple copies of her poems into different categories. Folders include typescript, edited drafts, handwritten copies, printed materials, and photocopies of published works.
Titles of books are arranged in order of publication, from earliest to latest. Poems within each book are arranged in the same order of appearance as in the table of contents.
Poems in this section are alphabetized by title. Some are also represented in the book collections above, while others do not appear in any other section. Where poem titles changed over the course of subsequent drafts, the folders are named according to Cynthia Macdonald’s labels.
Both typed and handwritten, fragments and untitled poems appear on everything from full sheets of paper to bits of scrap paper.
Cynthia Macdonald jotted down ideas and collected news clippings and other printed materials for ideas and research for her poems.
Fiction includes short stories, both published and unpublished, as well as portions of novels that Cynthia Macdonald began writing. Material also includes notes and clippings for fiction ideas and research.
Cynthia Macdonald’s nonfiction work includes essays; book reviews; written introductions of other writers for events such as poetry readings; and written copies of talks given. Material also includes notes and clippings for ideas and research related to nonfiction writing.
The Autobiography subseries features notes, snippets, ideas, clippings, and mementos, as collected and organized by Cynthia Macdonald.
This subseries comprises Cynthia Macdonald’s personal journals and diaries, as well as written recollections of dreams.
Cynthia Macdonald’s psychoanalysis-related writings include papers and presentations, as well as notes collected for these writings.
This subseries includes a translation of Dante’s Divine Comedy; notes and printed material related to that translation; ideas for various writing projects; an opera libretto, opera ideas, and reviews of operas; scripts and ideas for plays, movies, and television shows; notes on index cards; and assorted ideas, notes, and clippings for unnamed writing projects.
The Correspondence series is especially rich, featuring letters and postcards to and from Cynthia Macdonald’s writing friends, colleagues, and family members. The series is divided into four sub-series: Incoming; Outgoing; Writing Submissions and Solicitations; and Third-Party Correspondence. Further description of each sub-series is provided in the corresponding section below.
Incoming correspondence is arranged alphabetically by the last names of the senders. The last four folders of the sub-series contain correspondence identified by the senders’ first names only and correspondence from unknown senders. Among the family and friends sending letters to Cynthia Macdonald are many noteworthy writers and artists, including: Roger Angell; John Ashbery; Charles Baxter; John Barth; Marion Barthelme; Gay Block; Rita Mae Brown; Alan Cheuse; Judy Collins; Jane Cooper; Robert Coover; Peter DeVries; James Dickey; Mark Doty; Rita Dove; Rackstraw Downes; Rikki Ducornet; Alan Dugan; Stephen Dunn; Judy Dworkin; Stuart Dybeck; Louise Erdrich; Jules Feiffer; Carolyn Forche; Siv Cedering Fox; Helen Frankenthaler; Tess Gallagher; James Gleick; Vivian Gornick; Donald Hall; Barbara Hamby; Brenda Hillman; Edward Hirsch; Maureen Howard; Richard Howard; Donald Justice; Barbara Kellerman; Carolyn Kizer; Maxine Kumin; Philip Levine; Audre Lorde; Beverly Lowry; Thomas Lux; Frances Mayes; James Michener; Vassar Miller; Simon Moss; Carol Muske; Hans Namuth; Howard Norman; Kathleen Norris; Cynthia Ozick; Molly Peacock; Robert Peters; Marge Piercy; Stanley Plumly; Adrienne Rich; Joanna Russ; William Safire; Grace Schulman; Anne Sexton; Tom Sleigh; Nicholas Spice; Daniel Stern; Gail Storey; James Surls; May Swenson; Anne Truitt; Alberta Turner; Chase Twitchell; Mona Van Duyn; Sidney Wade; Diane Wakoski; Nancy Willard; Charles Wright; Marguerite Young; and Adam Zagajewski.
Cynthia Macdonald’s outgoing correspondence is arranged chronologically.
This sub-series includes correspondence between Cynthia Macdonald and the editors at magazines and literary journals regarding writing submissions and solicitations to submit her writing. Folders contain attachments and enclosures that were originally included with the correspondence. Some of Macdonald’s original folders are also included, in the cases in which she wrote notes, names, and addresses of editors on the folders themselves. The files are arranged alphabetically by the names of the magazines, journals, and anthologies.
The correspondence in this sub-series is neither to nor from Cynthia Macdonald, and is arranged alphabetically by the senders’ last names. Among the items are 12 letters to Donald Barthelme; 19 invitees’ responses to singer Judy Collins for a party she was throwing for Cynthia Macdonald; letters from John Barth, Adrienne Rich, and Studs Terkel; and one letter in the “First Names Only” folder from a book editor at Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. to American music composer Jerome Kern.
This series documents Cynthia Macdonald’s career and life as a writer. Contents include material related to poetry readings; writers’ conferences; reviews of her poetry; publishing contracts; publicity photographs; fellowship and NEA grant applications; prizes and awards; news clippings; royalty statements; her professional biography and curriculum vitae; other writers’ curricula vitae; letters of recommendation; the judging of writing contests; and documents regarding professional affiliations (such as PEN and the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters). The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
This series contains Cynthia Macdonald’s collection of works by other writers, including students, writer friends, famous authors, entrants in writing contests, and others. Material includes manuscripts, typescripts, printed material, and photocopies of works published in books and magazines. The series also includes some writing about other writers, organized by Cynthia Macdonald according to the subjects’ names. Of particular interest are original works by noteworthy authors, arranged alphabetically by the authors’ last names in Box 22. These materials include handwritten and typewritten copies of original drafts, as opposed to photocopies of published pieces. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
The series spans Cynthia Macdonald’s career as a writing teacher at Sarah Lawrence College, Johns Hopkins University, and the University of Houston. Items include departmental memos and other school-related business; class materials such as handouts on poetry; her biography/curriculum vitae (filed by Macdonald with her teaching materials, instead of with the Writing Career series); some student writings (filed here by Macdonald, instead of with the Writings by Others series); faculty evaluations by students; notes to and from other faculty members; and faculty awards. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
This series contains documents from Cynthia Macdonald’s career as a professional psychoanalyst. Material includes papers and notes from her years as a psychoanalysis student; a certificate of graduation, agendas, and faculty memos from the Houston-Galveston Psychoanalytic Institute; printed materials on various psychoanalysis topics; research for her “Writing Blocks” work; items from the Aspen Institute Executive Seminar; and a (probably gag gift) Singing Sigmund Freud Pin filed in Box 32, Folder 1. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
This series contains personal items collected over almost the entire course of Cynthia Macdonald’s life, from early childhood onward. Material includes artwork and schoolwork from her childhood; drawings and schoolwork by her sister, Virginia Lee, who passed away in childhood; summer camp documents and mementos; yearbooks; news clippings; photographs; mementos and documents from Macdonald’s children’s lives from childhood through adulthood; address books and day planners; travel documents such as maps, hotel and airline information, and mementos; shopping lists and Christmas gift lists; recipes; and posters. Contents of some boxes are described with the specific box numbers below; where not noted in detail, boxes contain an assortment of the above-mentioned materials. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not. Box 33 contains one folder with Cynthia's father Leonard C. Lee's estate information; two folders with mementos of Cynthia's sister Virginia, who passed away in childhood; Cynthia's first baby shoe; several folders of travel documents; slides; photographs; and other items. Box 34 contains photographs, including many from Cynthia’s childhood, as well as unsorted negatives and slides.
This series contains one box of assorted media such as audio cassettes, VHS tapes, and compact discs. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
This series contains one box of computer discs and hard drives. The series was arranged in accordance with minimal processing standards to expedite its availability to researchers. Some folders have retained Cynthia Macdonald’s original labels and organization, while others have not.
Contained in three record boxes and one oversize box, the series comprises materials that pre-date Cynthia Macdonald’s birth in 1928 and materials dated during her lifetime that do not directly involve her (e.g. correspondence between her mother and her mother’s second husband). This section will be updated when processing is complete. Materials can be made available to researchers upon request; please email jgrob@uh.edu for assistance.
The William C. Moffit collection contains 44 cartons. The collection is organized into 14 series: Personal/Office Files, Teaching Materials, Sheet Music, University Fight Songs, Moffit Arrangements of SWC Fight Songs, Small Sectional Sheet Music, Moffit’s Resource Materials and Michigan State Band Books, Original Working Scores, Formations, Audio Cassettes and Records, Ephemera, Music Books, Awards, and Oversize material.
The collection includes personal office files, teaching aids, sheet music, and Moffit arrangements of SWC school fight songs.  It also contains complete shows for marching band, as well as general formation patterns.  There are original Moffit working scores, formations/shows for the Michigan State University Marching Band, the University of Houston Marching Band, and the Purdue University “All-American” Marching Band.  It also includes the Patterns of Motion material, ephemera, and awards. Materials range in date from the 1930s to 2008.
For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 2 boxes of William C. Moffit’s personal and office files. Material includes correspondence, budget information, accounting, meeting agendas, royalties, copyright files, and memos. Also included is biographical material on Moffit, as well as his handwritten letters and notes. This series is arranged alphabetically. Oversized personal/office files can be found in OVS Box 61. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 3 boxes of a variety of teaching aids and articles referenced by William C. Moffit. Material includes warm-ups for various instruments, articles on various topics of musical education. Also included in this series is a collection of practice drills known as “Finger Busters.” This series is arranged alphabetically. Materials related to “Finger Busters” may also be found in OVS Box 61. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 3 boxes of sheet music used by William C. Moffit as research for his marching band arrangements. Music includes various classic children’s songs, traditional university songs, and the 1984 “Olympic Fanfare.” Material is arranged alphabetically. The sheet music ranges in date from 1944 to 1986, with the bulk of the dated material coming from the 1960s. Oversized sheet music may be found in OVS Box 61 and 62. Research materials used during Moffit's time at the Jacksonville Community Band may be found in Series 17, Jacksonville Community Band Materials. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 9 folders of various university fight songs. It was Bill Moffit’s custom for his band to play rival schools’ fight songs as a show of respect and good sportsmanship. Included are songs from 10 different universities. Material is arranged alphabetically. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 11 folders of Moffit arrangements for various university fight songs. The universities included in this series are all Southwest Conference affiliates. It was Bill Moffit’s custom for his band to play rival schools’ fight songs as a show of respect and good sportsmanship. Material is organized alphabetically. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 4 boxes of manuscript parts sheet music for a marching band. Material is arranged alphabetically. Additional manuscripts parts from Moffit's time at the Jacksonville Community Band many be found in Series 17, Jacksonville Community Band Materials. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series includes music books and show books from Michigan State University. It is arranged alphabetically and consists of 19 folders. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series consists of William C. Moffit’s original scores to his marching band arrangements. The series is arranged alphabetically according to its original order and includes 11 boxes. Oversized working scores can be found in OVS Box 61. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains 9 boxes of Moffit’s published arrangements and the series is organized into four sub-series: Moffit’s arrangements and scores, Soundpower’s Greatest Hits, “Christmas Celebration,” and “Special Occasions”. Additional published arrangements can be found in Series 17, Jacksonville Community Band Materials. Materials are arranged alphabetically. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This sub-series contains 8 boxes of published arrangements by Bill Moffit, most of which were publish by Hal Leonard Music, Inc. Many of the arrangements are part of the Moffit’s Soundpower or Showpower series. Materials are arranged alphabetically. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This sub-series contains 20 folders of published arrangements by Bill Moffit from Soundpower’s Greatest Hits, publish by Hal Leonard Publishing Corporation. This collection of popular titles contains some of his most requested arrangements. Materials include the conductor’s score and parts for all the marching band instruments. Materials are arranged alphabetically.
This sub-series contains 19 folders of Christmas music arrangements by Bill Moffit, publish by Hal Leonard Publishing Corporation. Materials include the conductor’s score and parts for all the band instruments. Materials are arranged alphabetically.
This sub-series contains 22 folders of music arrangements for special occasions by Bill Moffit, publish by RBC Publications. Materials include the parts for all the band instruments. Materials are arranged alphabetically.
This series contains 8 boxes of marching band shows and clinic/instructional material created and used by William C. Moffit. Materials are arranged alphabetically and consist of 4 sub-series; Marching Band Shows, Patterns of Motion Materials, School Shows, and Miscellaneous Formations.
This sub-series contains 2 boxes of material including the marching schematics of various shows that William C. Moffit was responsible for putting together for a variety of occasions. This material includes various pregame shows for the 1979 Cotton Bowl and other football games. The series is arranged chronologically and alphabetically, as indicated. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Patterns of Motion, by William C. Moffit, was a marching style featuring band members in constantly changing kaleidoscope patterns. This new marching band style, created by Moffit, quickly became a new trend and continues to impact contemporary marching band styles. This sub-series contains some basic formation designs that make up “Patterns of Motion.” It is arranged alphabetically and consists of 2 boxes. Oversized Patterns of Motion material may be found in OVS Box 59. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This sub-series contains 2 boxes of shows performed by school bands under the direction of William C. Moffit. Material is arranged chronologically coinciding with Moffit’s career.
This sub-series contains 106 folders of basic formations and fully mapped shows created by William C. Moffit. Material includes specific university shows as well as limited edition director’s guides. Material is arranged alphabetically. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains material used by Moffit for clinics on training band leaders to use Patterns of Motions, a marching style featuring band members in constantly changing kaleidoscope patterns, as well as a dissertation about Patterns of Motion. This new marching band style, created by Moffit, quickly became a new trend and continues to impact contemporary marching band styles.
This sub-series contains material used by Moffit for clinics on training band leaders to use Patterns of Motions. The sub-series consists of 36 folders. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent. Folder names in quotes reflect the original folder names.
This sub-series contains publication about Patterns of Motion. The sub-series consists of 2 items.
This series contains drill books for several of the years Moffit was at Purdue University. The series consists of 10 folders. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This series contains various recordings used by Moffit and the ten recordings are arranged alphabetically.
This series contains 2 boxes of personal and work related non-manuscript material.  It is arranged alphabetically.
This series consists of published music books and is arranged alphabetically. It contains 3 boxes of material. Additional published music books can be found in Series 17, Jacksonville Community Band Materials.
This series consists of awards given to Dr. William C. Moffit. It is arranged alphabetically and chronologically, and contains 9 boxes. Oversized awards may be found in OVS Boxes 52-58.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
OVS Box 58 (formerly Box 42) and contents missing as of March 25, 2015.
This series consists of materials used by William C. Moffit in his role as founder of the Jacksonville Community Band. Materials include scores, manuscript parts, and published arrangements used by the Jacksonville Community Band. Additional research material can be found in Series 3. Additional manuscript parts can be found in Series 6. Additional published arrangements by William Moffit can be found in Series 9. Additional published music books can be found in Series 15. This series contains 59 folders and original folder and item order has be maintained whenever possible. Oversize materials can be found in OVS Box 60.
This series consists of pamphlets and programs William C. Moffit mainly gathered from various conferences and band events, as well as promotional materials he received featuring him or his bands. This series contains 99 folders and original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible.
This series consists of newspaper articles featuring William C. Moffit or his bands. This series contains 73 folders and original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible.
The Chocolate Bayou Theater Company Collection consists of 3 boxes of materials dating from 1979-1988.  The collection is divided into two series: Administrative Papers and Productions.
The materials in this series include correspondence, photographs, financial and reorganization plans. Clippings, correspondence, and meeting minutes concerning the closure of CBTC are grouped together. Also included are photographs, clippings, and programs pertaining to the Preston Jones New Playwright Symposium named in honor of playwright, collaborator and close friend, Preston Jones.
Clippings, photographs, and programs of Chocolate Bayou Theater productions organized alphabetically by production title.
The Mary Foote Manuscripts Collection contains four of the children's moralistic or cautionary tales of author Mary P. Foote.
The University of Houston Women's Association Collection contain records of the organization from its founding in 1962 through 1994. The bulk of the materials date from the 1980s. Most of the UHWA papers consist of paper documents, with a few photographs. The collection is arranged chronologically within each series, adhering as much as possible to the original order. However, the organizations of some items varied with the majority of the material, resulting in slight reordering. Materials regarding the Faculty Wives' Club, the Women's Club of the University of Houston, and the American Association of University Women, initially found among the UHWA documents, were removed and arranged in separate collections. The researcher may find it helpful to examine these smaller collections as well as the University of Houston Women's Association Papers.
The twelve series of the UHWA papers each follow the chronological order of the overall collection. The series are: the Executive Board, Business Meeting Minutes, Financial Records, Mary H. Hoffman Scholarship, Membership, Publicity, Activities, Newsletters, Correspondence, Photographs, Yearbooks, and Miscellaneous.
There are twenty-three folders in this series which contain the UHWA’s administrative guidelines and by-laws. Also included are lists of executive board members, executive board meeting agendas and minutes.
There are six folders in this series. The majority of minutes record events of the UHWA's Fall and Spring business meetings.
There are thirty-five folders in this series. The financial records series contains budgets, bank statements, treasurer's reports, books of check stubs, and receipts.
There are thirteen folders in this series which contains information about the Mary Hoffman Scholarship from its founding in 1978 through 1994. The series is particularly strong in documenting the establishment of the scholarship, including initial fund-raising efforts. Financial records for the scholarship are separate from those dealing with the general financial affairs of the University of Houston Women's Association.
There are eleven folders in this series. The series includes lists of members as well as new faculty and staff lists which the newcomer committee used to recruit members. Box 4, Folder 7 contains a black, leather-bound ledger dating from 1950-1973, containing lists of dues-paying members as well as the amount paid. This item predates the UHWA but is labeled “UH Women's Association Membership 1950-1973,” and therefore is filed with this organization’s membership files. There is also a miscellaneous sub-division in this series. The miscellaneous folder contains registration forms, advertising flyers, and listings of important Houston-area organizations, emergency services, and events.
There are seven folders in this series which include press releases from the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s. The series also contains newspaper clippings from various Houston-area newspapers as well as University of Houston system and campus publications.
There are fourteen folders in this series which consists of programs and information regarding the various activities, calendars of events, and reports written by members evaluating the different activities.
There are thirty-one folders in this series containing a fairly complete set of monthly or bi-monthly UHWA newsletters from the first edition in late 1962 through March 1994. The newsletters are arranged by academic year. Most of the issues are present with the exception of a few missing monthly editions and the partial academic years of 1974/75, 1975/76, 1976/77, and 1977/78.
There are thirteen folders in this series. Formal correspondence, comprised mostly of letters received by the organization, date from 1961 through 1992. Informal correspondence includes a large number of thank you and sympathy cards of various dates, with the majority dated during the 1970s.
There are six folders in this series. The photographs contain both color snapshots and some black and white pictures.
There are eleven folders in this series. Yearbooks include a listing of the UHWA's constitution, a complete roster of members (including telephone numbers, department or spouse’s department, and address), and a variety of other information, depending on the year. Each yearbook encompasses an academic year and ranges from 1962-1963 through 1993-1994, excluding the school years of: 1971/72, 1972/73, 1974/75, 1980/81, 1984/85 through 1987/88, and 1992/93.
This series contains four folders of material. Contents of the folders include items such as: Internal Revenue Service tax identification number forms, bulk mail rate applications, an announcement from a basketball game about the UHWA and the Mary H. Hoffman Scholarship, various surveys and invitations, and undated, handwritten notes. Also included in the grouping is a spiral notebook labeled “President's Report”. The notebook contains UHWA Presidents’ comments on the organization’s activities from 1968-1972, as well as some newspaper clippings.
Materials in the binders consist of the same types of materials found in other series, but are being kept in original order in Series 13.
This collection contains legal documents, advertisements, correspondence, and maps from various Texas counties dating from 1818 to 1907. Deeds and tax receipts make up a significant portion of the collection. Counties represented include Angelina, Cherokee, Tyler, Nacogdoches, Brazoria, Fort Bend, Galveston, and Harris. Documents from the Republic of Texas are also included.
Advertisement
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Map
Map
Map
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Correspondence
Map
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Documents
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Map
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Note marked paid
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Map
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Correspondence
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Legal document
Correspondence
Legal document
Legal document/Map
Correspondence
Correspondence
Legal document
Legal document
Legal Document
Correspondence
Legal Document
Correspondence
Correspondence
Correspondence
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Legal Document
Vitae folders are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each card contains information (education, date of birth, brief employment history, and sometimes a photograph) for people employed by the University of Houston. Some of the folders also contain newspaper clippings associated with that individual. For example, the folders relating to Paul Chu contain numerous newspaper articles associated to his research in the area of superconductor material.
The U.H. Faculty Vita Records, (1960-1990) arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent. The collection contains approximately 3500 vita records.
Forms part of the University Archives. The U.H. News Releases include official university news releases, advertisements, correspondence, and administrative records, dating from 1947-1954. This collection is arranged into series based primarily on how it was originally received. The News Release series is the largest in the collection containing 56 folders. Materials date from May 1950 to August 1954 and are divided by month of the release. These releases cover almost every aspect of the University including announcements of events, articles published by faculty, building openings, Frontier Fiesta, workshops, classes, and many additional topics. Files have been arranged chronologically. The Advertisement series contains 3 folders of advertisements issued by the University and relate to a variety of topics that include registration, course offerings, child care, and many others. The materials include tear-sheets, working drafts of advertisements, and a few final drafts run in local newspapers. The Correspondence series contains 8 folders of material that date between 1947 and 1954. This series is arranged chronologically. The correspondence primarily relates to issues that concern the athletic program including its membership in the Missouri Valley Conference, football schedules, information used in brochures, and a tentative copy of the constitution of the Missouri Valley Press Association. There is also a large variety of other correspondence found in this series including material related to Frontier Fiesta, educational conferences, and career days held at the university. The Administrative Record series is arranged alphabetically and contains 47 folders.
Overall, the original folder order has been maintained. This Collection contains a wide range of materials relating to the administration of the department. Materials include monthly reports, cartoons, and negative lists. For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
This is the largest series in the collection containing 56 folders. Materials date from May 1950 to August 1954 and are divided in most cases by month of the release. These releases cover almost every aspect of the University including announcements of events, articles published by faculty, building openings, Frontier Fiesta, workshops, classes, and many other topics. Files in this series have been arranged chronologically.
This series contains 3 folders of advertisements issued by the University relating to a variety of topics including registration, course offerings, child care, topics concerning Veterans and many others. The materials include tear-sheets, working drafts of advertisement along with the final drafts run in local newspapers.
This series contains 8 folders of correspondence dating between 1947 and 1954 and arranged chronologically. Much of the correspondence relates to issues concerning the athletic program at the university including its membership in the Missouri Valley Conference, football schedules, information used in brochures, and a tentative copy of the constitution of the Missouri Valley Press Association. There is a large variety of other correspondence found in this series including material related to Frontier Fiesta, educational conferences, and career days held at the university.
Arranged alphabetically, this series contains 47 folders. Overall, the original folder order has been maintained. This series contains a wide range of materials relating to the administration of the department. Materials include monthly reports, cartoons, and negative lists.
These records are contained in 18 record cartons. The materials relate to the Open University program and include correspondence, reports, program information, workbooks and classroom supplements. The collection is organized in 3 series; Administrative Files, Classroom Materials, Audio/Video Tapes. Each series is arranged alphabetically by subject title. Materials range in year from 1970 to 1979.
This series includes 4 boxes of administrative material, ranging from 1970 to 1979. It includes articles, correspondence, budget and finance material, and grade sheets. This series includes reference material from the British Open University Program.
This series includes 9 record cartons of classroom materials arranged by one of the following subject titles; Art, Education, Math, Science and Technology. Course guides, teacher’s guides, and textbooks will be found. The bulk of this series is classroom workbooks, also called unit books.
This series includes 5 boxes of audio and video teaching aids meant to be used both inside and outside the classroom. The audio tapes include cassettes and records for Art, Social Science, and Math/ Technology classes. There are 25 video tapes organized by title, which include The Age of Revolution, The Third Testament, and Humanities. This series also includes one promotional video done by the BBC.
The collection is a result of integrating several items from Manuscripts A-Z into one artificial collection to improve organization and facilitate greater access. The collection contains correspondence, manuscripts, notes, and autographs belonging to various American and British literary figures from the 19th and 20th century (with one exception from 1634). The collection is arranged alphabetically by literary figure or, where author names are not available, title of piece.
This collection consists of manuscripts from a variety of sources. Included are correspondence, legal documents, printed documents, and other formats. In addition to original documents, some folders also contain transcriptions, translations, or preliminary research notes.
Where possible, documents clustered around particular themes or collecting areas have been grouped into series. Within the first four series, items are arranged alphabetically by author or signatory name when possible, otherwise alphabetically by title or description.
Further accessions to the collection have been assigned their own accession numbers and are described in the fifth series. These materials are arranged according to date of acquisition.
Gift of Frell Albright
Gift of Mrs. Marian B. Enslow, October 1975
Gift of Howard Barnstone
Gift of Mrs. G.V. Brindley, October 1970
from the Judge James Hall estate
Gift of Pruett, February 2, 1969
Gift of Frell Albright, December 1976
Gift of Frell Albright, Decmeber 1976
Gift of Mrs. Elmer J. Rodenberg From the Judge James Hall estate
Gift of Lorene Pouncey
Gift of “None Other than William Ambrose Radspinner”, January 1977
Gift of Mr. and Mrs. Henry David, December 1969
Hall estate
Gift of Howard Barnstone
From the Judge James Hall estate
Gift of Mr. Boyd Armstrong, May 1975
Gift of Mr. Frell Albright
Gift of Harold G. Richardson
Gift of William B. Bates
Gift of Dr. John O. King
Included in margins are hand written notes by the officer who owned the book.
Gift of Mr. Frell Albright, December 1976
Gift of George Britton, November 1976
Gift of George Britton, November 1976
Documents in this series are arranged by state or territory.
In French
Gift of William B. Bates
Accession #2016-022
Accession #2016-023
Accession #2016-024
Accession #2016-035
This collection includes administrative files from the Houston National Bank, as well as scrapbooks of prominent individuals associated with the bank.
The administrative files primarily pertain to the bank's 75th anniversary, celebrated in 1951. These files include correspondence, promotional material, photographs, pamphlets, and newspaper clippings. The administrative files also include publicity files and materials documenting organizations and conventions associated with the Texas Bankers Association.
The collection also includes personal papers from individuals associated with the bank, including the bank's president Melvin Rouff. Three scrapbooks containing correspondence, photographs, and newspaper clippings pertaining to banking comprise the personal papers.
The administrative records primarily pertain to the bank's 75th and 85th anniversaries, which were celebrated in 1951 and 1961. These files include correspondence, promotional material, photographs, pamphlets, and newspaper clippings. The records also include publicity files, which contain three scrapbooks with newspaper clippings of advertising campaign materials, as well as a campaign book for the bank's "Landmarks That Live" campaign. The organizations and conventions materials consist of a large scrapbook containing materials pertaining to the 48th and 49th annual conventions for the Texas Bankers Association.
The personal papers document the activities of individuals associated with the bank, including the bank's president, Melvin Rouff. Three scrapbooks containing correspondence, photographs, and newspaper clippings pertaining to banking comprise the personal papers.
Items removed from Melvin Rouff ship scrapbook
Items removed from Melvin Rouff ship scrapbook
Items removed from Melvin Rouff ship scrapbook
Items removed from Melvin Rouff ship scrapbook
Items removed from Melvin Rouff ship scrapbook
The Larry McMurtry Collection contains multiple typescript manuscript drafts of the novels Leaving Cheyenne, The Last Picture Show, Moving On, Somebody's Darling, Cadillac Jack: A Novel, The Desert Rose, Lonesome Dove, and Texasville, plus manuscript notes and publisher's copies related to some of these works. The collection also contains the typescript manuscripts and first galley proofs for the book of essays In a Narrow Grave.
The McMurtry Collection includes a screenplay for Hud (the film adaptation of McMurtry's Horseman, Pass By), and the screenplay for the John Cougar Mellencamp film project Falling from Grace (titled Ridin' the Cage and Indiana Moon in these drafts). Also in the collection are scripts for the cable television movies Montana and Memphis (titled September, September in these drafts), which was adapted from a novel by Shelby Foote and co-written with Cybil Shepherd. Many scripts are included which have not been produced, such as Cantrell and Somebody's Darling, which credits Diane Keaton as co-writer in some drafts.
The collection includes a large amount of correspondence. There are three major sections of correspondence – from McMurtry to his friend and Bookman store owner Grace David, from McMurtry to his friend Mike Kunkel, and from Harper and Row editor John Leggett to McMurtry. The Leggett correspondence concerns changes to the manuscripts for Horseman, Pass By and Leaving Cheyenne. Other correspondence includes that from McMurtry to book dealer Miles Karpilow.
A wide-ranging collection, the Larry McMurtry Collection also includes short prose and poetry, numerous literary reviews written by McMurtry, news articles about his books and films, notes on projects considered, transcriptions of taped interviews used as research for The Desert Rose, scripts which McMurtry worked on as an advisor without receiving credit, photographs, and other miscellaneous documents.
The collection is organized into six major series: McMurtry’s Writings, Correspondence, Other Projects, Works by Other Authors, Photographs and Miscellaneous. The first series, McMurtry’s Writings, contains the bulk of the collection contents. This series is divided into three sub-series: Novels, Scripts and Other Writings. Most individual works are given their own sub-series, and these are arranged alphabetically. The Correspondence, Other Projects, and Miscellaneous series have also been subdivided.
Additional manuscript material of Larry McMurtry is held at the University of North Texas in Denton, Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos, and Rice University in Houston. The Texana Collection of the Willis Library at the University of North Texas contains some of McMurtry's student literary submissions and papers, plus typescript manuscripts of Horseman, Pass By and Leaving Cheyenne. The Southwestern Writers Collection at the Alkek Library of Southwest Texas State University includes the screenplay and many other materials from the television mini-series Lonesome Dove, and a typescript of the 1972 screenplay Streets of Laredo, on which the Lonesome Dove novel was based. The Woodson Research Center of Fondren Library at Rice University has two collections of papers documenting McMurtry’s collaboration with Diana Ossana. These collections contain drafts, correspondence, and related materials.
This bulk of this series consists of typescripts, notes, and research for McMurtry’s writings. Issues of American Film magazine which contain McMurtry’s essays on film that were later compiled into the book Film Flam have been separated from the collection and cataloged.
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Copyedited typescript, with publisher's note; memo; front matter
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Transcript, with corrections
Transcript, with corrections
Transcript, with corrections
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Typescript; Manuscript notes
Typescript, with corrections and note
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with note, signed
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript (carbon), with note
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Carbon typescript, with corrections
Carbon typescript, with corrections
Carbon typescript, with corrections
Carbon typescript, with corrections
Carbon typescript, with corrections
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Full publication
Full publication
Full publication
Typescript (some carbon), with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with note
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Copyedited typescript
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript (some carbon), with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections and notes
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript
Manuscript
Typescript
Clipping
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Photocopied copyedited transcript
Transcript, with corrections; Photocopied transcript, with manuscript corrections
Separation sheet
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript; Photocopied typescript
Typescript
TLS; TL; Typescript; Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript
Typescript, with corrections
TLS; Photocopied pages, with notes
TLS; Photocopied pages, with notes
TLS; Photocopied pages, with notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photcopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Typescript; Photocopied typescript
Typescript, with corrections; Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with notes and corrections
Photocopied TLS
Photocopied TLS
Photocopied TLS
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections; Manuscript note
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript
TLS
TLS
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections and notes
Typescript, with notes
Typescript, with corrections and notes
Mss notes
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections and notes; Manuscript note
Typescript, with corrections and notes; Manuscript note
Typescript, with corrections; Some photocopied pages
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript; Manuscript notes on envelope
Typescript
Photocopied drawings
Layouts
Typescript
Typescript; Manuscript notes
Typescript, with corrections; Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections; Manuscript notes
Photocopied TLS
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Bound typescript
Clipping
Photocopied TLS (2 copies)
TLS
Typescript, with corrections
Typed and manuscript notes
Typed and manuscript notes, some photocopied
Manuscript notes
Typescript, with corrections; Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
TLS
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript with corrections, with notes
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
TLS; Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Manuscript notes
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied publication
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
TLS; Typescript, signed
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Typescript
Typescript
TLS, with notes; Typescript
Photocopied typescript
Typescript
Typescript
TL; Typescript, with notes
TLS, with typed and photocopied enclosures
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Typescript with notes
ALS
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript with some photocopied pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript; Cover
Typescript
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
This item has been removed from the collection. See separation sheet for details.
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied TLS; Photocopied typescript
Typescript draft
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections and notes
Typescript, with corrections
TLS
Typescript draft, with corrections; Incomplete
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied TLS, with notes
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
TL, with notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft
This item has been removed from the collection. See separation sheet for details.
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft
TL
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with notes
Typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with notes
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections (2 copies)
Typescript draft (carbon)
Photocopied and carbon typescript draft
Manuscript; Typescript pages (carbon)
Typescript draft, with note
Typescript draft
Typescript pages
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript pages, with corrections
Typescript draft (some photocopied), with corrections
Photocopied typescript pages, with corrections; Typescript pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript page
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
TLS
Typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections; Manuscript note
Photocopied typed memos
Photocopied typescript
Typescript (some photocopied)
Typescript (some photocopied)
Typescript (some photocopied), with notes
Typescript (some photocopied), with notes
Typescript (some photocopied), with notes
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescripts; Photocopied publication pages
Typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript
Typescript (some photocopied), with notes
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript, with corrections
Typescript (carbon), with corrections
Typescript (carbon), with corrections
Typescript (carbon), with corrections
This item has been removed from the collection. See separation sheet for details.
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections and notes
Photocopied galley proof, with notes
Photocopies (2 copies)
Photocopies (2 copies)
Full publication
Full publication, with notes
Typescript draft (carbon)
Typescript draft (carbon); Photocopy of clipping
Full publication
Typescript draft, with corrections
Full publication; Photocopy of cover
Copyedited typescript
Full publication
Full publication
Typescript draft
Typescript, with corrections; Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections and notes
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections; Photocopy of same
Typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections; Photocopied typescript; TLS
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with signature
Full publication (3 copies)
TL; TLS
Full publication
Typescript draft, with corrections and notes
Clipping; Tearsheets
Typescript draft, with notes
Full publication (2 copies); Photocopy of clipping
Typescript draft, with corrections
Tearsheets
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript drafts, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Full publication (2 copies)
Photocopied tearsheets (2 copies, one missing one page)
Typescript draft, with corrections, signed
Typescript draft
Typescript draft
Full publication
Typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft; Carbon of same
Typescript draft, with corrections; Carbon typescript; TLS
Typescript draft
Tearsheets
Galley proofs, with notes
Typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript drafts (some photocopied), with corrections; Notes
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript
Typescript drafts; Tearsheets
Typescript
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections (2 copies)
Full publication
Photocopied typescript drafts, with corrections; Galley proofs
Full publication; Photocopy of clipping
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
ALS
Card with AS note
ALS
TLS, some with notes; Envelope
ALS; TLS; Envelope
ALS; TLS; Envelope
ALS; TLS; Envelope
ALS; TLS; Envelope
TL; Carbon typescript
ALS; Carbon typescripts; Mss notes
ALS; TLS; envelopes
ALS; TLS; envelopes
ALS; TLS; envelopes
TL; TLS; envelopes
TLS; Carbon of business papers
TLS
Photocopied TLS
Photocopied TLS with mss note
Carbon TL
TLS
TLS
TLS
Photocopied TL, with note; Photocopied typescript
TLS; ALS
TLS; Brochures
TLS
ALS
TLS; Carbon TL
Carbon TL
ALS
TLS; Notecard, with note
TLS
ALS; Photocopied typescript; Envelope
TLS; Envelope
TLS
TLS; Envelope
TLS; Envelope
TLS
This series contains documents related to other projects McMurtry was involved with. According to collection documentation, the items in the first series were projects which McMurtry said he was involved with in an uncredited role.
Typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopy
TL; Photocopied typescript pages
TLS; Photocopied typescript pages
Photocopied typescript pages, with corrections
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and notes
Typescript (some photocopied pages), with corrections and notes
Photocopied typescript, with corrections and mss notes
Photocopied typescript, with typed inserts that have notes
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied publication
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied publication
Photocopied publication
Typescript
Typescript
Photocopied typescript
Photocopied typescript
This item has been removed from the collection. See separation sheet for details.
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft, with corrections
Photocopied typescript draft; Manuscript note
Photocopied typescript draft
Full publication
Photocopied publication
Photocopied publication
Photocopied publication
Typescript, with corrections
Photocopied publication
Photocopied typescript draft
Photocopied typescript draft
This item has been removed from the collection. See separation sheet for details.
Photocopied publication
TLS; Photocopied typescript draft
Typescript; Envelope
Typescript
Photocopied typescript
Tearsheets
Photocopied page proofs
Tearsheets
Typescript
Typescript
Typescript (carbon)
Typescript
Typescript
Manuscript; Typescript
Typescript
Photocopied book
Publication
Photocopied publication in 3-ring binder
This collection contains notebooks, correspondence, and other works by William B. Shrimplin. A particular focus is on the development of Shrimplin's personal bookplate. Also included are correspondence and works both by and relating to Samuel L. Clemens (Mark Twain). Collected correspondence from Jack London, Carl Sandburg, Calvin Coolidge, and other figures is also present. In addition to documenting Clemens, the collection provides insight into the mid-twentieth century world of bibliographers, book dealers, publishers, and collectors. Materials date from 1850 to 1970, with the bulk of Shrimplin's work and correspondence occurring from the 1920s to 1940s.
Including photograph and art work
4 pages
Letter to W. B. Shrimplin, December 22, 1948 and February 18, 1949 with accompanying notes about the states of the Twain editions.
Two articles about Shrimplin's Barber Shop in Columbus Evening Dispatch, December 26, 1944.
Includes clipping.
In envelopes and various salutations.
May 31, 1927, June 1, 1927, June 2, 1927, June 2, 1927, June 2, 1927, January 5, 1934
December 22, 1932, December 13, 1932, December 9, 1937, January 17, 1934, January 16, 1934, November 21, 1932, December 16, 1932, December 19, 1932, December 15, 1932, December 20, 1932, December 14, 1932, November 22, 1932, January 4, 1934, December 30, 1933, December 30, 1933, December 29, 1933, December 28, 1933
Includes envelope from Merle Johnson to W. B. Shrimplin.
London: Slote, Woodman, and Co. Scrapbook filled with clippings regarding Clemens.
The Edward Holley Resources of Texas Libraries Papers contains materials relating to the book, Resources of Texas Libraries (1968) that he co-authored with Donald D. Hendricks. Items in the collection range in date from 1964 to 1970 with most of the material dating between 1967 and 1968. The bulk of the collection details research performed by Holley and Hendricks for their book.
The collection is divided into three series: Background, Manuscript, and Survey Results. The original arrangement has been retained as much as possible, although some reorganization was done to facilitate research. Each series is arranged alphabetically with materials in folders arranged chronologically.
This series contains twenty-four folders, arranged alphabetically, consisting of background information used in Resources of Texas Libraries. The materials in this series includes examples of surveys used by other institutions, correspondence to Texas institutions requesting participation in the survey, research proposals, a study paper, and various other materials.
This series consists of sixteen folders containing drafts of Resources of Texas Libraries. Drafts are arranged chronologically from earliest drafts to the final version.
This series consists of the survey response forms and correspondence from participating Texas institutions. The response forms list the holdings at the libraries and the correspondence is primarily cover letters that were sent with the responses. The series contains 127 folders, divided into eight sub-series, based on the original order. The sub-series separate the different kinds of institutions surveyed and include: Public Junior Colleges, Private Junior Colleges, Public Universities, Private Universities, Public Senior Colleges, Private Senior Colleges, Special Libraries, and Public Libraries. Very few of the items contain dates, but it is assumed from other dates within the collection and from the publication date for the book that most of the items in this series date from 1967-1969. Materials are arranged alphabetically within each sub-series.
The collection is housed in 3 boxes and 2 drawers and is organized into 10 series entitled: Organizational Documents, Roster/Year Books, Newsletters, Photographic Works, ROBWEC Anniversaries, Invitations and Greetings, Clippings, Correspondence, Notes, and Ephemera. The bulk of the material documents the organization’s operations and events of the club. Some materials are contained in map drawers which are located in the back corner of the stacks.
This section houses Information with regard to the organization from the time of its inception in 1977. The meeting records of the organization are compiled together.
This series houses the year books and membership information of ROBWEC.
Photographs pertaining to the various ROBWEC parties and anniversary celebrations.
Five year anniversary celebrations and publicity material form part of this series.
Consists of printed invitations to events both ROBWEC and others. Also included are greeting cards for various occasions.
Newspaper clippings describing women empowerment, news regarding ROBWEC or other organizations of its like.
General business correspondence and membership correspondence are housed in this series.
This series contains oversized materials related to ROBWEC. The series includes a deconstructed scrapbook of organization presidents and exhibition boards.
This collection contains five series: The TOA President Correspondence, Executive Secretary Correspondence, TOA Committee Correspondence, TOA Administration, and Audio Tapes. Material includes correspondence, memoranda, meetings, newspaper clippings, reports, audio tapes and other administrative material. The collection is arranged chronologically within each series, adhering as much as possible to the original order.
The collection arrived in generally good order and condition. Some material from the late 1950s to early 1960s was very brittle, and has been placed in protective mylar. The collection includes an almost complete run of minutes, financials, and yearbooks.
The collection includes several large, typical scrapbooks and several smaller types of scrapbooks. These scrapbooks were compiled and submitted for various awards at the local and state levels. Most of the information on the Council’s two major activities, the Veterans Administration Hospital and the Lighthouse for the Blind Garden Club, as well as smaller projects, are contained in these books. The scrapbooks contain photographs, newspaper and magazine clippings, ribbons, correspondence, newsletters, and other material documenting the Council’s involvement in various community service projects.
The large scrapbooks were in very fragile condition. Items had been glued or taped onto the pages, most of the tape was no longer sticky, and items were loose throughout the books. The pages were very acidic and some had torn; some of the photographs had begun to discolor. Several of the scrapbooks contained loose material at the end. These scrapbooks have been disassembled for preservation purposes: pages with newsprint copied onto acid free paper, tape removed if possible, acid free tissue paper placed between the pages of the most fragile scrapbooks. The other type of scrapbook is a small, three-clasp pocket folder. These pocket folders have been disassembled and the material kept in original order.
The collection is divided into five series: Administrative, Projects and Activities, Awards, Yearbooks, and Memorabilia. The material in the collection has been arranged, for the most part, chronologically.
This series contains material concerning the administration of the Council, including a history, correspondence, legal documents, newsletters, and an almost complete run of meeting minutes and financials. Financial information was included in the minutes until 1959. The minutes include those of the board of directors, the executive committee, and the general Council meetings, arranged chronologically. The minutes and financial material are arranged in two year increments corresponding to each president’s tenure.
This series contains material pertaining to the projects and activities of the Council, including community service projects and flower shows. It contains four sub-series: Community Service Projects, Flower Shows, Activities, and Related Organizations. Other projects are listed chronologically following the two main; the three other sub-series are also arranged chronologically. The Padre Island material contains original letters from Senator Lyndon Baines Johnson, Representative Albert Thomas, and Representative Bob Casey.
This series contains material pertaining to various awards received by the Council. It is divided into two sub-series: Community Service, and Gardening, both arranged chronologically.
This series contains the Yearbooks of the Council, published every two years to coincide with the president’s tenure. 1973-1974 and 1989-1990 are missing.
This series contains miscellaneous items, such as the Council banner and seal, and four slides.
The Harper Leiper Studios Houston Aerial Photographs Collection contains aerial photographs of Houston during the 1970s and early 1980s taken by commercial photographers Harper Leiper Studios.
(4 copies)
The Womynspace Records is housed in 1 box and consists of 3 series: Organizational Information, Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) and Disarmament Movement. This collection documents organizational meetings, events and goals. Additionally, these records include material from the 1970s and 1980s collected by the organization regarding Pro- and Anti- ERA sentiments, ERA ratification deadline extension Senate Hearings and the Disarmament Movement.
The Houston Municipal Wharves Photographs Collection contains photographs of Houston Ship Channel construction during the years 1916-1917.
The Houston Chinatown Photographs Collection contains scenes of Houston’s Chinatown taken during the 1970s or early 1980s.
The U.H. Forensics Team Records contains newspaper articles, schedules of tournament events, correspondence, tapes, and photographs relating to the U.H. Forensics Team between the years of 1956-1973. Typically the newspaper articles describe the team's performance at various national tournaments. During the 1960s, the U.H. Forensics Team was considered as one of the top rated teams in the country, defeating teams like Harvard in 11 debates while only losing to them 4 times. In 1969, the U.H. debate team won 137 of the 159 debates that they participated in with Dr. William English winning coach of the year. Following the 1969 season, Dr. English spoke about team members Mike Miller, a political science junior, and David Seikel, a political science senior, and said that the two held the "best record of any intercollegiate debate team ever." He then added, "There probably never will be a better team."
The U.H. Forensics Team Records arrived at the archives in very good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of newspaper clippings directly related to the organization and to the debates that it participated in, however there are a small number of photographs, tournament results, and tapes of the National Debate Tournaments from 1956-1966 also found in the collection.
For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Housed in 2 boxes, this two-series collection primarily documents the year of Judge Sondock’s appointment to the Texas Supreme Court as an Associate Justice in 1982. Most notably, this collection includes a 25 in by 17 in, 96-page scrapbook consisting of clippings, photographs, invitations, programs, correspondence, and congratulatory notes regarding her 1982 appointment. Additionally, this collection contains childhood photographs of Judge Sondock from the 1930s.
The collection primarily contains announcements, scholarly journal articles, newsletters, and newspaper clippings, the majority pertaining to Dr. Stead's academic contributions as well as her efforts to establish FHPW and GHBER. The material has been arranged into 9 series: Miscellaneous; Degree Requirements; Academic Projects; Training/Workshops; Scholarly Works; Honors and Awards; Accomplishments and Recognition; Organization Affiliations; Community Activism.
This series consists of two folders pertaining to matters not related to events covered in this finding aid. The correspondence folder contains the draft of a recommendation letter and a few article clippings. Of note is a copy of an early resume by Dr. Stead, which mentions her academic activities before joining the UH faculty.
This series consists of 5 folders pertaining to Dr. Stead's academic contributions, which include college- and graduate-level courses, seminar presentations, conference papers and panels on which she has served. Although the folders in this series contain mainly newspaper clippings and correspondence relating to her academic activities, there are syllabi and course descriptions for the course on "Women in Administration."
This series consists of 12 folders arranged chronologically from 1974 to 1979 and they pertain to training and workshops focusing on women's professional development. Although most of the folders in this series contain event programs, correspondence and newspaper clippings, one folder also holds evaluation forms, which may be of interest to the researcher.
This series consists of 5 folders pertaining to Stead's scholarly research, especially in the areas of grammar usage, business communication and women's professional advancement. This series is further subdivided into two sub-series, "Books" and "Articles," respectively. The books listed immediately below have been catalogued and placed in the stacks. As with "Academic Projects," this series also contains newsletters as well as copies or off-prints of journal articles.
This folder also includes Dr. Stead's unpublished review of The Assertive Librarian, Z682.C26 1984.
This series consists of 7 folders pertaining to honors and awards Dr. Stead has received. With the exception of the FHPW folder, which also holds a banquet program, the others contain correspondence, newsletters or college magazine articles documenting her professional advancement.
This series consists of 7 folders acknowledging Dr. Stead's accomplishments and recognition. Although these folders largely contain college magazine articles, two also hold the text of Stead's speeches marking the establishment of scholarships in her honor.
This series consists of 7 folders pertaining to Dr. Stead's significant involvement in various women's organizations in the Houston area. In particular, because Stead played a vital role in FHPW and GHBER, the folders below also hold drafts of the bylaws she created to establish these organizations. Further, it is interesting to note that the ROBWEC folder contains a 1991 photograph of Stead and Geraldine Ferraro, a former Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate.
This series consists of 11 folders containing information about the extent of Dr. Stead's community activism, especially with regard to UH's affirmative action and sexual harassment policies. While most of the folders in this series contain policy guidelines, some Equal Rights Amendment folders also hold newsletters, magazine articles, and newspaper clippings.
LD2281.H73995 U533 1974
Laws Administered by EEOC, OVS KF3464.A6U55 1985
HQ1439.H68G74 1994
This collection is housed in 9 boxes and organized into 5 series. The content of the collection consists of Houston Comet’s memorabilia documenting their four WNBA championship wins from years 1997 to 2000. In addition, general Houston Comet’s novelty items can be found in this collection dating from the year 1997 to 2003.
The John H. Lienhard series of speeches and materials cover a diverse range of topics. The earliest speech dates from 1962 and the most recent in the collection dates from November 1997. The vast majority of speeches from the collection were given between 1980 and 1997.
This series is the largest in the collection consisting of over 600 talks given to various groups by Professor Lienhard between 1961 and 2002. The series is arranged chronologically and the talks retain the titles used by Dr. Lienhard.
This series consists of various drafts of two textbooks written by Professor Lienhard; Statistical Thermodynamics and A Heat Transfer Textbook. The folders in this series contain preliminary drafts, page proofs, galley proofs, correspondence, and royalty statements for the works.
~20 linear feet
The papers of Edison Ellsworth Oberholtzer contain employment contracts, information relating to the University of Houston, photographs, newspapers, certificates, and diplomas. Dr. Oberholtzer's papers are arranged in five series. The collection contains material dating from 1905 to 1967. A few of the photographs may precede 1905. Most of the material was obtained from Richard A. Walker in January 2003. Mr. Walker is a Professor of Geography at the University of California, Berkeley and a grand nephew of Dr. Oberholtzer.
This series consists of four folders containing the employment contracts for E.E. Oberholtzer, dating from 1911 to 1950 and arranged chronologically.
This series consists of twenty-one folders, probably office files, relating to various aspects of the University of Houston.
This series consists of seven folders relating to personal aspects of the Oberholtzer family. The materials date from 1910 to 1959 and are arranged alphabetically.
This series contains four folders of miscellaneous materials dating between 1924 and 1967 and arranged chronologically.
This series contains four folders containing family photographs spanning the life of E.E.Oberholtzer.
This series contains fourteen diplomas or certificates awarded to the Oberholtzers that date between 1904 and 1959 and are arranged chronologically.
This series contains five newspapers arranged chronologically.
This collection includes two naval uniforms and a panoramic photograph.
One buckle has come detached from the strap.
Photograph has damage to corner, but image is clear.
This collection contains eighty-eight vintage postcards collected by E. Virginia Barnett. The collection includes materials from Arkansas, California, Illinois, New Jersey, New York, Texas, Virginia, Oregon, Washington and Washington D.C. Some items are booklets containing several views of a particular event or locale. The collection is organized by state, and then further subdivided by city.
Iron Spring in the "Gorge"
Mirror Lake in "The Gorge"
Panama-Pacific International Exposition
by Andrew O'Connor
Looking North West, Courthouse in Front of the Capitol
Spring Lake
(two miles long,) crossing the Columbia River from Vancouver, Washington, to Portland, Oregon.
showing Federal Building
Buffalo Calf in Center Four Months Old
Showing the new addition.
View of new entrance showing the new addition. There is an esplanade in the foreground. Photograph.
The collection contains the transcripts and cassettes of the Phi Kappa Phi oral history interviews. A small amount of written material and three computer diskettes are also included with the collection. All materials date from 1978 to 1985. The cassettes have been boxed separately for preservation reasons.
The Schlayer Collection contains the typescript and galleys for the book How to Be a Financially Secure Woman (New York: Rawson Associates, 1977).  The collection consists of three documents: a photocopy of the typescript, and two sets of galley proofs, one marked “Author’s reading set 1 of 2”, and the other “Author’s reading set 2 of 2.”
This collection contains photographs, correspondence, newspaper clippings, short stories, and articles related to or written by Donald Barthelme and his brothers, Rick, Steve, and Peter Barthelme, as well as notes by Helen Barthelme. This collection contains research that Helen Barthelme gathered in order to write a biography on Donald Barthelme Jr., Donald Barthelme: The Genesis of a Cool Sound. This collection encompasses his early life and career both as a writer and as director of the Contemporary Arts Association, up until his death in 1989.
This series includes copies of typescript program proposals for the Contemporary Arts Association (CAA) and the Contemporary Arts Museum, CAA publications, copies of newspaper articles about CAA, and other miscellaneous materials.
Contains microfiche copies of newspaper articles about CAA during Donald Barthelme's tenure as member of the board and director.
This series includes original, and copies of typescript letters written by Donald Barthelme to his family during his army service in Korea, to Helen Barthelme during and after their marriage, and to friends and family. The series also includes letters to Donald Barthelme from friends, postcards, telegrams, and other miscellaneous items. Some letters included are outside the chronological scope of the early years of Donald Barthelme's life.
This series contains photographs from Donald Barthelme's time in Korea, his selective service cards and honorable discharge certificate from the US Army, and family photographs, slides, negatives, and proofs.
This series includes correspondence between Donald Barthelme and contributors to the Forum during 1956-1960, arranged alphabetically by contributor name. Included are letters from such noted contributors as Robert Bly, Irving Howe, Alfred Kazin, Norman Mailer, and Harold Rosenberg. Some folders also include additional materials related to Forum contributors such as reprints of articles, photocopied bibliographies of works, photocopies of obituaries, and annotated lists of correspondence. Also included is correspondence related to a proposed meeting of editors of similar journals and miscellaneous administrative materials.
This series includes original and copies of Forum magazines and other miscellaneous materials.
This series contains several photocopies and originals of the published versions of early short stories by Donald Barthelme, an original typescript of his essay "Not-Knowing," and miscellaneous materials related to Barthelme's writing work. It also includes a listing of the published versions of short stories, which were cataloged and removed from the collection.
This series contains copies of newspaper and magazine articles about Barthelme and his work, interviews, reviews of works, and miscellaneous critical materials. Also included are programs for book readings of Barthelme's works and receptions honoring Barthelme, as well as the announcement of the Barthelme Memorial Fellowship award.
This series includes copies of newspaper articles on the Barthelme brothers, reviews of their works, and essays published by Steven Barthelme. The series also contains copies of 'The Texas Observer' during Steven Barthelme's tenure as review editor and contributor.
This series includes notes for Helen Barthelme's book, analysis of Donald Barthelme's works, interviews with friends of Donald Barthelme, biographies and bibliographies of contributors to Forum, newspaper and magazine articles about Donald Barthelme, and other miscellaneous materials.
This series includes manuscripts, notes, and diaries by Helen Barthelme, drafts of fictional works, poems, and essays, including Dr. Barthelme's classwork.
These records contain 1 box relating to the Houston Alumni Organization. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include manuals, certificates, event programs and flyers, promotional material, fundraising material, newsletters, published material, reports, correspondence, posters, and stationary. The collection is arranged chronologically and then alphabetically when necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1960’s to 2009.
These records contain 9 boxes, 9 oversize folders and 1 scrapbook, all relating to the various athletic teams of the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the University Print Plant. Material includes correspondence, stationery, publications, program guides, press guides, newspaper clippings, handbooks, and scrapbooks. This collection is organized into 5 series; General Information, Programs, Championship Publications, UH Athletic Publications and Miscellaneous Athletic Publications and Clippings. Each series is arranged alphabetically by athletic team or committee, and then chronologically when necessary. Materials range in date from the 1950’s to 2010.
These records contain 7 boxes relating to the C.T. Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include course information, event programs and flyers, posters, invitations, report, correspondence and stationary.  Also included in this collection is a Publications series that includes reports, manuals, surveys, newsletters, and conference material. This collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1940’s to 2009.
This collection contains records relating to the Hines College of Architecture at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Records include course information, promotional material, invitations, correspondence, reports, faculty writings, publications, commencement programs, and stationary. The collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1940’s to 2009. In addition, the collection includes more than 80 posters, many of which were produced by students, faculty, and staff in-house. An additional box of records transfered from the Architecture and Art Library is not yet fully processed.
These records contain 9 boxes relating to the various departments that make up the College of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes correspondence, course information, event programs and flyers, invitations, promotional material, published material, newsletters, stationary, Self-Study reports, and Five-Year plans. The collection is arranged alphabetically by department title. Material ranges in date from the 1930s to 2009.
These records contain 6 boxes relating to the College of Education at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include course information, workshop flyers, research papers, instructional materials, event flyers, correspondence, certificates, newsletters, teaching programs. Included in this collection is a Publications series that includes faculty studies, and administrative reports. This collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Materials range in date from the 1940s to 2009.
These records contain 2 boxes and 1 oversize folder relating to the University of Houston Law Center. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes certificates, registration material, correspondence, course information, event programs and flyers, reports, newsletters, stationary, and published material. This collection is arranged alphabetically by department, program, or subject title. Material ranges in date from the 1930s to 2009.
These records contain 4 boxes and 1 oversize folder relating to the College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes correspondence, course information, event programs and flyers, program guides, publications, newsletters and faculty reports. This collection is arranged alphabetically by department title and chronologically as necessary. Within each department, material is arranged by the following categories: General Information, Guides, Newsletters, Publications, and/or Reports. Materials range in date from the 1940s to 2009.
These records contain 2 boxes relating to the College of Optometry at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include newsletters, correspondence, event programs and flyers, administrative material, published material, course information, reports, patient forms, and stationary. Included in this collection is a series of taped interviews. The collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1950s to 2009.
These records contain 1 box relating to the College of Pharmacy at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes correspondence, course information, event programs and flyers, stationary, newspaper articles, abstracts, magazines, and other published material. The collection is arranged chronologically. Material ranges in date from the 1950s to 2009.
These records contain 2 boxes relating to the College of Technology at the University of Houston. Material includes booklets, flyers, reports, handbooks, manuals, and video tapes. This collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary by the following series; booklets and flyers, and videos. Materials range in date from the 1940s to 2009.
These records contain 3 boxes relating to the Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes correspondence, course information, event flyers, posters, proposals, certificates, stationary, promotional material, invitations, newsletters, published material, newspapers, memorandum, proposals, and two plaques. This collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1960s to 2009.
These records contain 10 boxes relating to the Cullen College of Engineering at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Material includes event programs and flyers, co-op program material, newsletters, brochures, correspondence, stationary, course lectures, and published material. Included in this collection are the following series: General Information, Mechanical Engineering NASA Class Lectures, and Publications. This collection is arranged alphabetically by department title, and chronologically as necessary. Class lectures are arranged alphabetically while published material is arranged chronologically. Material ranges in date from the 1940s to 2009.
This collection contain 2 boxes of records relating to the Graduate School of Social Work at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include course information, stationary, certificates, invitations, program and workshop flyers, promotional material, published material, newsletters, reports, and commencement programs. This collection is arranged chronologically and alphabetically as necessary. Material ranges in date from the 1960s to 2009.
These records contain 1 box relating to the Honors College at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include certificates, programs information, reports, event flyers, invitations, stationary, correspondence, newsletters, commencement programs, and promotional material. This collection is arranged chronologically. Material ranges in date from the 1940s to 2009.
This artificial collection was created to bring together materials related to the investiture of Presidents and Chancellors at the University of Houston. Materials include programs, invitations, lists of delegates, press coverage, and administrative information related to the production of the investiture ceremony. Presidents covered include Renu Khator, Philip Guthrie Hoffman, Charles Edwin Bishop, and Arthur K. Smith.
This small collection contains memorabilia collected from the revolution. Included with the items are translations provided by the donor.
The collection consists of Sanskrit and Gita scholar Vishnu K. Divecha's work as a translator, teacher, and student of the Bhagavad Gita and other Sanskrit and Hindi works, as well as a library of such works.
[2 copies]
From: Scripture/Mahabharata; Section: Udyoga Parva (1 of 18); Chapters: 33 through 39; By: Vidur Mahatma Explanation: Sanskrit break-down, Hindi, and English by Vishnu Divecha. Typescript.
Published works collected by Vishnu Divecha.
This collection contains materials from Voices Breaking Boundaries’ (VBB) history and administration, planning documents, event materials, press clippings and audio-visual materials.
In addition to paper records, this collection also contains digital archival material. Digital archival materials can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. Because not all of these materials are processed, these materials may require up to two weeks to access. Some files may be restricted and not available for access at all. Contact the curator for more information.
This series contains writing samples, paperwork, and lesson plans from camps and workshops provided to teenagers by Voices Breaking Boundaries.
This series contains planning documents, lesson plans, rosters, student writing and reflections from workshops provided to adults and teachers.
This series contains materials related to the organization and promotion of Voices Breaking Boundaries events, art installations, and performances.
This series contains unlabeled photographs and negatives from VBB workshops and events.
This series contains publications and literary compilations created by VBB workshop and event participants.
This series contains press releases and clippings, publicity planning and general or season specific promotional materials.
This series contains event materials including art pieces from various VBB events and art exhibitions.
This series contains administrative paperwork including non-profit board development, board meeting minutes, strategic development and administrative correspondence and contact information.
This series contains documents related to human resources and employment such as employee manuals, job descriptions, hiring processes and correspondence, and staff and artist employment and payment records.
This series contains documents related to the finances and funding of VBB, including grant applications, financial statements and tax information organized by fiscal year.
This series contains documents confirming VBB expenses, including bills, receipts and bank documents.
This series contains a variety of audiovisual materials related to VBB activities including; cassette tapes, VHS tapes, DV tapes, CDs and DVDs.
Folder names reflect original organization and naming. Materials include primarily digital photographs, fliers, and production files. Some fliers that were eventually produced may be duplicated in the print collection. Files were transffered from both Sehba Sarwar's laptop and an external hard drive on September 24, 2015. Files saved at 2014-015_002_vbb. 16.6GB (approximately 18,273 files).
Folder names reflect original organization and naming. Files transffered on October 14, 2016. Files saved at 2014-015_005_vbb. 26.1GB (approximately 6,568 files).
This digital accession is not yet processed and may not be available for research.
https://web.archive.org/web/20161020163950/http:/vbbarts.org/p-events.shtml
Interviews produced as a part of the University of Houston course History 6383 in fall 2014 taught by Professor Kairn Klieman. Most interviews consist of .mp3 audio files as well as .docx transcripts. Some also include video. Interviews missing release forms are marked [closed]. Files saved at 2014-015_001_vbb.
This collection contains materials related to organizational structure of the Houston Area Fiber Artists (HAFA), such as meeting minutes, financial records, secretarial records, membership lists, and more. There is also extensive photographic documentation of various art pieces created by HAFA members, as well as a number of VHS tapes and DVDs showcasing this material.
This Series contains media in a variety of formats, including slides, VHS tapes, and digital materials. Sub-series 2 contains VHS tapes. Due to the fragility of the media, please contact curator Vince lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) to inquire about viewing the tapes. Sub-series 3, 4, and 5 include digital archival materials. These arrived in the archives in the form of CDs, DVDs, flash drives, and 3.5" floppy disks. The contents have been transferred off these fragile media, but the media type is retained in the finding aid to reflect the original format and organization of the files. The digital files can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) for more information.
Due to the fragile nature of the media, please contact curator Vince Lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) with questions about viewing these materials.
The digital files from these CDs and DVDs can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) for more information. When possible, CD titles in this finding aid have been taken directly from hand-written notes or labels on the discs received. In other cases, the titles may have been supplied based on the group of materials in which the discs arrived. The collection also contained 3 CDs that appeared to be blank, despite being labeled. These were labeled "HAFA Backup, May 10, 2008", "HAFA May 2013", and "HAFA Stuff 6/8/06".
The digital files from these flash drives can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) for more information. Some flash drives arrived with labels or tags. In these cases, finding aid item titles reflect these labels. In other cases, titles may have been supplied based on the apparent content (file names) of the drives.
The digital files from these floppy disks can be accessed in the Special Collections Reading Room by advance request. These materials may require up to one week to access. Contact curator Vince Lee (velee@Central.UH.EDU) for more information. When possible, disk titles in this finding aid have been taken directly from hand-written notes or labels on the disks received. In other cases, the titles may have been supplied based on the group of materials in which the disks arrived.
Crooker’s papers include documents relating to zoning ordinances, city planning minutes, activities of subdivisions, news clippings on development issues, City Council speakers, and organizations such as Citizens for Zoning. Arrangement follows as closely as possible Crooker’s own organizational schema, with adaptations sufficient to facilitate the third-party exploration of the collection. Collection includes approximately 6 linear feet of materials. Materials cover the period from roughly the 1950s to mid-1990s.
This series covers issues in Houston proper and includes materials related to zoning, restrictive covenants, and formation of citizens’ groups such as the Houston Homeowners Association founded by Kay B. Crooker. Information covers the 1950s through 1996. Topics covered include racial issues in deed restricted neighborhoods, community affairs, press coverage, and neighborhood goals to enhance property values and protect homeowners’ rights.
Series 2 covers specific neighborhood areas inside and outside Houston and the organizations that evolved to protect and develop those areas.
Series 3 includes information on environmental issues that affect urban development and quality of life.
Series 4 includes city planning and park preservation materials that Kay B. Crooker collected for research purposes and for examples of effective and progressive policies.
Collection includes records relating to the formation and development of the Gulf Coast Council on Foreign Affairs and its successor organizations, the Gulf Coast World Affairs Council, and the Houston World Affairs Council. Documents reveal the administrative processes by which the organizations were governed and the various programs and events sponsored by the organizations. Such events include an array of invited speakers, some of considerable note, and trips to various countries, designed to facilitate international understanding and cross cultural experiences.
Collection arrangement follows the trajectory of the three sequentially evolving organizations. Materials generally follow chronological order within sub-series such as Administration, Business Activities, Correspondence, Financial Records, Membership, Programs, and World Affairs Press Coverage.
Materials in this collection represent Hana Ginzbarg’s working files for Armand Bayou. To make the files accessible to the public, they were organized into three series. Series 1 includes materials related to Ginzbarg’s initial campaign to prevent development in the Armand Bayou area. Papers in Series 2 cover the subsequent efforts to preserve Armand Bayou as a nature education center and protect the area from proposed encroachments. Papers in Series 3 include maps and oversized documents.
It should be noted that this collection represents only a portion of Hana Ginzbarg’s papers. She retains her papers related to other campaigns and issues, particularly regarding her exhaustive work on the Bellaire Nature Discovery Center. More of Ginzbarg’s papers will come to the Houston History Archives at a later date.
Series 1 incorporates documents related to the history behind the preservation campaign, including Yramategui’s death, the plans to develop residential housing in the Armand Bayou floodplain, plus the technical and economic reports on Armand Bayou.  Campaign activities are represented in full detail.
Series 2 contains the records of the early days of the Nature Center as an established non-profit entity, including board meetings, financial records, educational programs, and publicity.
This collection includes the records from the Scottish Brigade Alumnae association and the Scottish Brigade. The series included are: Scottish Brigade Alumnae Records; Scottish Brigade Alumnae Photographic and Video Material; Official Brigade Records; Scottish Brigade Performance Material; Scottish Brigade Photographic Material; Scottish Brigade Publicity Clippings; Stephen F. Austin Senior High School Yearbooks; and Scottish Brigade Memorabilia and Scrapbooks.
The Alumnae records include the organizational documents, financial reports, plans for the luncheon and scholarship reports as well as photographs and photo albums of the Alumnae Association activities and luncheons.
The Scottish Brigade records include organizational documents, performance records and plans and photographs of Scottish Brigade members, performances and events. In addition it contains an extensive series of Scottish Brigade memorabilia.
Materials are arranged as Alumnae Records or Brigade records and then arranged by topic within each series. Whenever possible, dated materials are arranged chronologically. The collection is housed in 12 boxes and also includes two oversize items.
This series is comprised of 28 folders housed in 1 box and includes organizational documents, financial records, committee reports and other documents related to the founding and activities of the Scottish Brigade Alumnae Association. Of particular interest is the anthology book A Scottish Brigade Anthology which offers a concise and comprehensive history of the Scottish Brigade, its goals, members and founders.
This series is comprised of 13 folders and 12 items housed in 3 boxes and includes the audiovisual and photographic records of the Scottish Brigade Alumnae association. Most of the items included relate to the Scottish Brigade luncheons although of particular interest are the three Scottish Brigade Performances videos which were created to be shown at the anniversary luncheons.
This series is comprised of 9 folders housed in 1 box and includes the organizational documents of the Scottish Brigade, its financial documents, membership rosters and other administrative documents.
This series is comprised of 37 folders and 4 items housed in 2 boxes and includes documents related to all aspects of the Scottish brigade’s performances. Marching plans, musical scores, song lyrics and marching handbooks are some of the more interesting documents in this series.
This series is comprised of 7 folders and 3 items housed in 3 boxes. This series includes photo albums created by Scottish Brigade members, chronologically organized photos of Brigade members and Brigade events as well as a panoramic photo album containing photos of the entire Scottish Brigade for various years. Please note that Box 11 is an oversize box that contains items from several series and the panoramic photo album is an oversize item housed with the collection, but not in a box.
This series is comprised of 9 folders housed in 3 boxes. This series includes newspaper clippings related to the performances and activities of the Scottish Brigade and its members as well as a run of the Austin Roundup, Stephen F. Austin High school newspaper from 1940-1978. Please note that Box 11 and Box 12 are oversize boxes, and Box 11 contains items from other series.
This series is comprised of 5 folders housed in 1 box. This series includes newspaper clippings related to the performances and activities of the Scottish Brigade and its members as well as a run of the Austin Roundup, Stephen F. Austin High school newspaper from 1940-1978.
This series is comprised of 7 folders and 25 items housed in 6 boxes with one loose item. This series includes costume items, props, marching flags, patches, scrapbooks and other memorabilia from the years that the Scottish Brigade was performing. Please note that Box 12 is an oversize box that contain items from other series and Item 2 is an oversize item housed with the collection, but not in a box.
The processed records in this collection contain 14 boxes relating to the various student organizations at the University of Houston. A significant portion of this material was given to the archives from the university Print Plant. Materials include correspondence, brochures, pamphlets, flyers, club rosters, publications, event programs, and club policies. The bulk of the material consists of records relating to fraternities and sororities on campus; this includes photographs, slides, negatives, and scrapbooks. This collection is arranged alphabetically by organization name, with the fraternity/ sorority records located largely in a separate series. Tau Beta Sigma materials make up a large portion of the collection, and are arranged in their own series. Processed materials range in date from the 1930s to 2009.
Additional materials from the Council of Ethnic Organizations, the Center for Student Involvement, and the Center for Fraternity and Sorority Life were received in 2011 and 2014, and are not yet fully processed. Represented in three "unprocessed" series, these materials date from 1951 to 2014 and constitute an additional 40 linear feet of material.
This series consists of 11 unprocessed boxes containing records transferred from the Council of Ethnic Orgnizations.
This series consists of 28 unprocessed boxes containing records relating to the Center for Student Involvement (CSI) and the fee-funded student organizations it oversees. There is also one OVS folder.
Photograph
This series consists of 1 unprocessed box containing documents, slides and audio tapes relating to the Center for Fraternity and Sorority Life (CFSL) and the fraternities and sororities it supports.
This collection contains theatre programs from 1939-1961.
Houston Heights is situated northwest of downtown Houston, Texas. This Collection contains records from the Houston Abstract Company, the Houston Title Guaranty Company, the Stewart Title Company, and the Southern Abstract and Title Company. This collection consists of 10 abstracts of title and deed for the property in the Heights district, in the city of Houston and Harris County, filed from 1896 to 1941.
This collection is primarily concerned with correspondence from Kenneth Wade Kennedy relating to his World War II service. The collection also includes correspondence from various family members, newspaper clippings relevant to the family, and a small number of musicale programs and wedding invitations.
All letters are arranged chronologically with the exception of a discreet number of letters from various family members which have been arranged alphabetically by author.  Newspaper clippings are undated, while programs and wedding invitations have been arranged chronologically.
Letters from Kenneth W. Kennedy are arranged chronologically and include insights into his time spent at West Point and his role in the Northern Africa campaign of World War II.
Letters from various members of Kenneth W. Kennedy’s family allow for a look into his relations back in the U.S. during World War II. Of particular note are letters from his brother, Joseph Kennedy, sent while working on the discovery of plutonium at the University of California, Berkley and while working on the first atomic bomb at Los Alamos. The fourteenth folder, with letters from various family members, has been arranged chronologically.
Newspaper clippings are undated and relate primarily to various topics of import to the family, but also include references to Kenneth W. Kennedy and his service during World War II.
A small handful of musicale programs and family wedding invitations are arranged chronologically.
The H. David Kaplan Schlumberger Well Services Collection contains information ranging from 1970-1976. Consisting of a single box, this collection includes: employee handbooks and insurance information, awards and certificates, presentations and training materials, an assortment of publications about Schlumberger, and personal and employee correspondence. The publications have been cataloged, and can be located in the UH Library catalog by searching: Schlumberger Sonde Off, Houston Schlumberger Recorder, and Schlumberger Manager.
This collection consists of six volumes of subdivision plat maps of developed areas of Houston, Texas recorded between approximately 1900 and 1970. Five volumes are bound and one is unbound. The pages of the bound volumes are numbered consecutively within each volume. The sixth or unbound volume and is composed of loose sheets, and the pages are numbered but are not in order. The plat maps are not indexed. In addition, the collection contains a separate group of six subdivision plat maps that date from 1961 to 1981, and maps and engineering drawings for the Memorial Chase, Section 3 subdivision dated 1971 to 1973.
rendered in ink on “mylar” or acetate film, recorded with Harris County Clerk, September 1973
ink on vellum
ink on vellum
ink on “mylar” or acetate film
diazo prints on paper
2 sheets, ink on “mylar” or acetate film, (drafts, never submitted to county clerk)
This is an artificial and disparate collection of Texana, or materials relating to the history of Texas. In order for the collection to be useful to researchers, an artificial order was imposed by the processor. The collection is divided into seven series: Pre-Republic (to 1836); Republic (1836-1845); Annexation and Early Statehood (1845-1860); Civil War and Expansion (1861-1901); Modern Statehood (1901-1956); Claude Elliott Papers; and Governors Ferguson/Sterling Papers. Series, sub-series, and folder titles have been standardized as much as possible. The first five series, directly relating to Texas history, each contain the same three sub-series: Documents, Printed Material, and Creative Works. Folders are arranged in alphabetical order and items within the folders are arranged chronologically.
The standardized folder titles are fairly broad in order to accommodate the varied nature of the collection. In general, a folder entitled Land will contain deeds; a folder entitled Legal will contain miscellaneous items such as wills and probate documents, indentures, and promissory notes; and a folder entitled Government will contain sheriff’s documents and gubernatorial appointments to local offices. In a few instances, such as with the Annexation of Texas, the amount and focus of the material warrants a specific folder title.
In some instances, items from the twentieth century, such as newspaper or periodical articles, have been placed in an earlier series if the information pertains to an event or person in an earlier period. For example, twentieth century articles on brands have been placed with the nineteenth century brand book.
Some material in the collection was owned previously by Dr. Alexander Dienst, Jr. (1870-1938) of Temple, Texas, a historian and collector of Texana. His handwritten notes and commentary appear on some of the items. He was a friend and supporter of Governor James E. Ferguson.
This series contains Texas materials from the time of Spanish and Mexican rule. The majority of the series comprises manuscripts relating to land, including some written in Spanish.
Typescript of (and correspondence regarding) a presentation made to the Texas State Historical Association, April 25, 1952.
Items in this series pertain to Texas as an independent republic. Items of interest include a promissory note to Mirabeau B. Lamar, president of the Republic; an early Land Book of Texas; a Gonzales County Probate book; a journal by early Texan Ammon Underwood; Colonel Pedro Delgado’s account of the battle of San Jacinto; and accounts of early Texans Peter Gallagher and Robert Potter.
This series contains material relating to the early years of Texas statehood. Items of interest include gubernatorial appointments to local offices, and a Bell County Official Bonds book. Folder 33 contains a document of Public Sale of Land and Negroes dated 1858.
This series contains material pertaining to Texas in the last half of the nineteenth century. Items of interest include three Bell County Stock books and a Bell County Marks and Brands book in two sections; Caldwell County teachers’ paychecks; a book of Bell County taxpayers; a Texas Veterans Association scrapbook; and three copies of the diary of John Lafayette Lane, a Confederate soldier and prospector. One particularly noteworthy item is “A Declaration of the Causes which impel the State of Texas to Secede from the Federal Union” from 1861 (in Sub-Series 2, Box 2, Folder 7).
Of particular note in this sub-series is an item in Folder 7: an eight-page pamphlet from 1861 titled “A Declaration of the Causes which impel the State of Texas to Secede from the Federal Union.”
Includes “A Declaration of the Causes which impel the State of Texas to Secede from the Federal Union,” 1861.
Material in this series concerns the modern state of Texas, beginning in 1901 with the discovery of oil at Spindletop. Items of note include issues of the Congressional Record that pertain to Texas; speeches given by Texas legislators; and an incomplete run of the War Information Series. An item of note is a signed letter from then-Senator Lyndon B. Johnson to Judge C.V. Terrell, dated in 1956 (in Sub-Series 1, Box 2, Folder 22).
This series contains some of Claude Elliott’s scholarship, including entries he wrote for the Handbook of Texas, offprints from journals, and miscellaneous research material.
Items in this series pertain to three early twentieth century Texas governors, James E. and Miriam A. Ferguson, and Ross Sterling. Some of the political items, such as newspaper articles, reference both the Fergusons and Sterling. Of special interest is a holograph diary of James E. Ferguson and letters written by him.
The Business Manager Records of C. F. McElhinney are the records McElhinney generated during his tenure at the University of Houston (1945-1973). The collection has been arranged into six series: Board of Regents, Staff Conference Meetings, Legislative Activities, Building Files, President’s Office, and the Houston College for Negroes. The materials in the collection date from 1945-1974, with the bulk of the materials dating from the 1960s and 1970s. Included in the collection are university-related correspondence, minutes, agendas, reports, financial reports, bids, and contracts. There are no photographs or personal papers in the collection.
Key correspondents in the collection include C. F. McElhinney, Philip Hoffman, Patrick J. Nicholson, E. E. Oberholtzer, W. W. Kemmerer, and Clanton W. Williams.
The materials follow the organization in which McElhinney left them, with some minor rearrangement within folders to follow chronological order. All folder titles use the headings provided by McElhinney.
Materials in the collection document the administrative activities of the University, including Camp Wheeler, construction on the Houston College for Negroes campus (now Texas Southern University), the legislative activities of the University during its campaign for state support in the 1960s, the development of KUHT Channel 8 and KUHF, the campus radio station.
Oversized materials, including maps of campus from the 1960s, blueprints and related architectural materials on the UH Central Power Plant, and a campus map of the utility distribution system have been removed from the collection for preservation purposes. Please ask an Archives staff member for assistance regarding oversize materials.
This is the largest series, 10.5 boxes or 488 folders, with the bulk of the records dating from the 1950s through 1973. The materials are arranged in chronological order with some exceptions and include agendas, minutes, memoranda, reports, budgets and financial reports. Also included in this series are the records of several sub-committees of the Board of Regents/Board of Governors. These include the committees on which McElhinney served: the Finance Committee, the Executive Committee, the Building Committee, the Planning Committee, and the Investment Committee. During 1957 some re-organization was undertaken, which created a Board of Governors to serve in an advisory capacity to the Board of Regents. This changed again in 1963, when the University of Houston gained state funding and the Board of Governors was eliminated. Generally the files are organized by month, with agendas and any attached materials followed by the minutes for that meeting. Of particular interest are materials attached to the minutes and agendas, which include reports or memos from many of the faculty and administrators on campus. These reports address the initiation of new programs on campus as well as several major issues: construction on campus, desegregation, the campaign for state support in the early 1960s, Camp Wheeler, KUHT, and KUHF. These materials have been left with the agendas with which they were attached and therefore are found throughout the series. Materials on KUHT and KUHF, in particular, are scattered throughout this series, although there is a folder from the Ad-Hoc Television Committee in 1959 and a folder specifically on KUHT from 1966.
This series, consisting of 180 folders of material, documents the meetings held by the President of the University with his key administrators. Included in this series are agendas, minutes, correspondence, memoranda, and reports. Major issues, such as construction, finances, KUHT, KUHF, the campaign for state support, student unrest in the 1960s and 1970s, and desegregation are addressed throughout this series. Folders are arranged chronologically.
This series contains [eighty-three folders] arranged chronologically and retaining the folder titles used by McElhinney. Included are reports, minutes, correspondence, memoranda, newspaper clippings, speeches, position papers, state publications, and related materials. This series documents the efforts of the University to achieve state support and status as a state university during the early 1960s and includes the reports sent to the University administration by Patrick J. Nicholson during the 1961 legislative session. Also included are the initial budget requests to the state by the University. One of the primary correspondents in this series is State Senator Robert W. Baker of Houston.
This series, consisting of ninety folders of material, deals with the planning, funding, and construction of the A. D. Bruce Religion Center and the University Center. It is divided into two sub-series, Religious Center and University Center. The bulk of the material dates from 1965 to 1966 and includes subject files, bids, financial records, correspondence, and promotional literature from various companies.
This sub-series, which consists of thirty-four folders, is divided into three sub-sub-series: Subject Files, Architect, and Organ.
The Subject Files are arranged alphabetically by folder title and include planning and fund-raising information.
The Architect sub-sub-series relates to architect Frank C. Dill’s work and the Tellepsen Construction Company. Folders are arranged alphabetically.
The Organ sub-sub-series relates to the various companies that wanted to receive the contract for the Religious Center organ.
This sub-series, which consists of fifty-five folders, is divided into two sub-sub-series, Bids/Worksheets and Subject Files.
This sub-sub-series includes the bids for various aspects of the University Center and worksheets relating to the various bids.
This sub-sub-series is arranged chronologically and includes the minutes and reports of various committees, which addressed the need for a student center on campus in the late 1950s and early 1960s.
This series consists of eighty-nine folders of material and includes correspondence, memoranda, reports, brochures, and other materials generated by or related to the Office of the President. Subjects covered in this series include art on campus, the Clear Lake campus, President Hoffman’s inauguration, and the president’s house. Also included are files with material from General A. D. Bruce, Philip G. Hoffman, and Clanton W. Williams. The materials are divided into the following sub-series: Art, General A.D. Bruce, Clear Lake Campus, Philip G. Hoffman, Inauguration, Clanton W. Williams, and Subject Files. Each sub-series is arranged chronologically.
This series consists of thirty folders of material, dating from 1945 to 1948 and includes receipts, financial records, correspondence, and memoranda. The bulk of the material dates from 1945 to 1947. Included are records from fund-raising efforts for construction of buildings on the campus, as well as financial records for the Houston College for Negroes.
The processed portion of these papers includes 12 linear feet described in five series. They comprise the editorial files for 100 Years of Science and Technology in Texas, published by Rice University Press in 1986. Professor Swenson, of the University of Houston, and Reverend Leo Klosterman, of the University of St. Thomas, co-edited the work, which was sponsored by Sigma Xi, a scientific research society. The materials date from 1977 to 1987.
Included are correspondence with publishers, editors, and authors of the chapters in the books. There are also various drafts of the chapters, page proofs, critiques of the chapters by Swenson, Klosterman, and other contributors, galley proofs, notes, chronologies, outlines, and dust jackets. All chapters and proofs have been arranged according to the arrangement of the published work.
There is also a considerable amount of correspondence and materials related to the Southeast Texas Sigma Xi Council, which sponsored the production of the volume. The minutes of the society, which have been left with the correspondence to which they were attached, provide insight into the organizational and financial difficulties encountered in producing the commemorative volume. Additional materials include items related to the Texas Sesquicentennial and the Robert A. Welch Foundation. Among the Welch Foundation materials were annual reports and research bulletins, published between 1977 and 1984, which have been removed from the collection; copies are available in the University of Houston Pharmacy Library.
The collection has been arranged in six series: Correspondence, Drafts, Proofs, Miscellaneous, Sesquicentennial Materials, and Unprocessed Materials (2015 additions).
This series includes correspondence with contributors as well as correspondence with Sigma Xi members during the period covered by the collection. There is also minimal correspondence with the editors and publishers. There are eighteen folders in this series, with the bulk dating from 1985 to 1986. All correspondence has been arranged chronologically, and attached materials have been kept with their correspondence. Materials sent to Sigma Xi members have a considerable amount of information relating to the status of 100 Years of Science and Technology in Texas.
This series includes multiple drafts of the various chapters in the book, with the editors’ marks. These chapters have been arranged so that different versions of the same chapter are found together, with the overall arrangement following that of the finished book. This is the largest series in the collection, consisting of 110 folders of materials dating primarily from 1986. The materials have been arranged from earliest draft to latest, where differences could be ascertained. Following the chapter drafts are drafts of indexes, chronologies, and general notes made by the editors. This also includes chronologies, indexes, and other book related material. One draft of the book has a rich set of surveys on the history of Sigma Xi chapters in Texas. These materials precede the drafts of the section.
This series includes proofs of the individual chapters in the books, with editing marks. The chapter proofs have been arranged to follow the organization of the finished book. There are also two complete sets of galley proofs of the book, as well as an incomplete set of page proofs. There are thirty-five folders of material in the series, all dating from 1986.
This series includes any material related to the book that does not fall into the three previous series. There are nineteen folders of material dating from 1985 to 1986. Among the items are photographs, publicity material, publishers’ information, notes, lists of possible buyers, and dust jackets. There are also some Sigma Xi materials.
This series includes local press publications from 1986 documenting the history of Texas. There are also several issues of the National Dispatch, which was the official Texas Sesquicentennial publication. The twelve folders in the series have been arranged alphabetically by title.
14 linear feet of additional materials were added to this collection in 2015. Accession #2015-029: 6 boxes of materials donated by Professor Svenson on April 30, 2015. Accession #2015-030: 2 additional boxes of unprocessed archival materials were donated on June 11, 2015. Accession #2015-031: 6 additional boxes of unprocessed archival materials were donated on December 14, 2015.
The Le Bayou collection consists of 20 boxes and is organized into 11 series: Administration, Le Quartier Latin, Correspondence, Submissions, Subscriptions, Le Petit Théâtre Français, Livre d’Or, and Journals, Artistic Stamps, Ledgers, and Photographic Materials. This collection contains papers related to the publication of Le Bayou and includes subscription information, correspondence, and the submissions of both published and unpublished authors. It also includes the papers of Le Quartier Latin, the French Club of the University of Houston, and its publication Le Feuille de Chou. Materials in the Collection date from 1934-1964, and much of it is in the French language.
For preservation and access reasons the collection has been re-boxed and re-foldered. New folder titles conform, as closely as possible, to original folder titles, except when the original was obviously incomplete, incorrect, or confusing. Original folder and item order has been maintained whenever possible. Exceptions were made when folders were obviously misfiled or when no order was apparent.
Special Collections, University of Houston Libraries has in its collection the original Le Bayou, under the call number AP21. B25. The bound volumes begin in 1936, with volume 1, and end with volume 95, in 1963.
This series consists of one box of Le Bayou’s administrative files, and includes documents that reflect the business aspect of an active international literary journal.
This subseries consists of 32 folders of general business concerns, such as advertising, financial documents, correspondence models, copyright, printing, and publicity. This subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 25 folders, mainly correspondence, that pertains to the organization Friends of Le Bayou. This organization was created to ensure that funds could be donated by interested persons and organizations for the continued financial support of this literary magazine. This subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 7 folders of materials that relate to Le Bayou’s Campagne de Fonds, a yearly fundraising gathering that took place from 1945 to 1953. This subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This series consists of 44 folders of materials that relate to Le Quartier Latin, the French club of the University of Houston. It includes general club administrative information, correspondence (organized by date), La Feuille de Chou, its literary newsletter, fundraising events, and relating to exchanges with other magazines. This series is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 18 folders of materials that document the general organization of Le Quartier Latin, such as officer positions and the accompanying duties, membership lists, and financial information. This subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 8 correspondence folders organized by date. It contains correspondence from individuals, other journals, and organizations. This subseries is organized by date.
This subseries consists of copies of La Feuille de Chou, the newsletter of Le Quartier Latin. It consists of 8 folders organized by date.
This subseries consists of 7 folders of material that relates to several events that were held as fundraisers for the club, in its early years. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of one folder that contains documents relating to the exchange of La Feuille de Chou with other journals and magazines.
This series consists of about two boxes of correspondence, both personal and business. Correspondents of note include E.E. Oberholtzer, the founding president of the University of Houston. This series is organized alphabetically.
This series consists of roughly 3 boxes of material that was submitted for publication in Le Bayou, from its inception to when it stopped publication in 1963. These folders include fiction, poetry, essays, and book reviews, and many of their authors submitted material for many years. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of material submitted for publication in Le Bayou, from its inception to when it stopped publication in 1963. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 46 folders that contain rough draft materials for issues numbering 69 through 71, and for issues numbering 93 and 94. It is organized by issue number, by date, and then alphabetically.
This series consists of three boxes of documents relating to subscriptions, as well as an index card file. It includes general subscriptions, gift subscriptions, individual subscriptions, organizations, and universities. It also includes the materials that contain information concerning the exchange of Le Bayou with other publications, and the orders made by subscription companies. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date. The index card file is at the end.
This subseries consists of 6 folders that relate to subscriptions for Le Bayou from 1938 to 1962.  There is also material relating to orders for Ballades de Mon Bayou.  It is arranged alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of one folder that contains gift subscription orders for Le Bayou from 1950 to 1955.
This subseries consists of 172 folders that contain subscription information for individual subscribers, for Le Bayou from 1941 to 1963. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of roughly 1 and a half boxes of materials relating to subscriptions for Le Bayou by bookstores, libraries, universities, and other kinds of organizations.  It is arranged alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 170 folders of materials that relate to the exchange of Le Bayou with other publications, such as the Berkeley Review and France-Amerique. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 9 folders that contain materials that relates to subscription companies. Some individuals, universities, and organizations ordered their subscriptions through services that provided a large selection, rather than directly ordering from Le Bayou. It is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This sub-series contains subscription information in the form of an index card file. It includes both the subscription information of individual people and organizations. This series is organized alphabetically.
This series consists of 10 folders that contain materials that relate to Le Petit Théâtre Français, including office documents, and copies of its publication La Gazette. Le Petit Théâtre Français was a French theater organization started by Jules Vern. This subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This series consists of 12 folders that contain original and duplicate copies of a scrapbook of clippings relating to Le Bayou and its publicity, from 1950 to 1959. For each original copy, which is organized by date, there is a duplicate copy. This series is organized by date.
This series consists of 2 subseries that consist of Éditions du Bayou and Journals Received. Each subseries is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 16 folders that consist of Éditions de Bayou, a publication series that published small books of poetry, and smaller notebook versions of Le Bayou. This series is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This subseries consists of 11 folders containing journals that Le Bayou either received in exchange from other publications, or were sent in hopes of such an exchange. This series is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This series contains two small boxes of handcarved rubber stamps used in the production of Le Bayou.
This series contains two ledgers of financial information and one receipt book. This series is organized alphabetically, and then by date.
This series contains photographs of members of the Le Bayou staff and includes formal portraits of its founder, Jules Verne. It also contains two photo albums and one scrapbook with photographs of the Le Bayou staff at work and at play. This series is organized by date.
The documents in this collection have been identified as forgeries and were exhibited at a Forgery Conference held at the University of Houston Libraries in 1989.
This collection contains manuscript scores for 6 of Carlisle Floyd's works, dating from 1958 to 1992.
This collection includes slides of life in Eastern Europe and Soviet Russia during the late 1920's to the early 1930's. There are also examples of artwork, monuments, and the palaces of the wealthy.
The UH Core Advisory Committee Records document the development of the University of Houston's Core Curriculum from 1966 to 1992. Materials include university self studies, task force and committee reports, core curriculum documents, and undergraduate council minutes.
This collection consists of two color aerial photographs of Houston, Texas taken in 1972 by the International Aerial Mapping Company of San Antonio.
The photographs show the area around the North Loop Freeway (IH-610) and North Main Street. They measure approximately 9 inches by 9 inches and bear the date "2-4-72" in the upper left hand corner and the serial number "HOU 0724 020" in the upper right hand corner. The back contains the name and address, "International Aerial Mapping, 8927 International Drive, San Antonio, Texas 78216."
This collection consists of one bound volume of color aerial photographs of Houston, Texas taken in 1983 by MPSI Mapping, Inc. of Dallas. It measures approximately 20 inches by 25 inches.
The over-sized bound volume is labeled on the front as "Houston Texas , Southwest," with the name "MPSI" inscribed at lower right. All photographs bear the note, "Date of Photo 12/30/83." The volume is in good condition but has slight water damage to back cover and sheets near the end of the volume.
The Sue Dauphin Houston Area Performing Arts Collection consists of eleven boxes of materials dating from 1947 to 1987. The collection is made up of three series: Houston Area Performing Arts Venues/Groups, Other Performing Arts Venues/Groups, and Sue Dauphin's Papers. Programs from Houston area theatre companies comprise the bulk of the material. Of particular interest is the breadth of coverage from the smallest groups to major arts organizations. A smaller amount of material represents art exhibitions, her correspondence, and newspaper/radio reviews.
PN2277.H68xD37
The collection consists mainly of media records such as articles, magazines, news clippings and newsletters. The collection also contains bills, bill analyses and proposals, speeches and brochures. Other printed materials in the collection include invitations to events, directories, certificates, cards and campaign originals. The ephemeral material consists of pins, posters, special license plates and framed photographs.
The collection has been arranged into ten series: Media, Events, Legislature, Speeches, Electric Utility Restructuring, Campaign, Resources, Photographs, Miscellaneous and Ephemera. The above series have been arranged chronologically, while a couple is sorted topically. The materials in the collection date between 1977 and 2003 and follow original order closely.
The collection is organized in eleven series and housed in 6 boxes. Perhaps the most interesting aspect of the material is the correspondence between the inmates and the organization. The series are organizational material, administrative documents, Goree unit TDC, correction system: laws & conditions, volunteer program, client services, Christmas projects, external correspondence, published information and photographic materials. Of special interest are inmate correspondence, program records and organizational information. These records document to some degree the deplorable conditions of Texas prison system during this era.
This section houses information regarding the organization from its inception in 1971. Organizational documents regarding “Women for Justice” are compiled together.
General Correspondence and organizational meetings and membership rosters and IRS information of the organization etc are available.
Goree Prison Unit visitation program is a very important part of the group and the apparel requests, stationary donations etc happened at regular intervals of time.
The facts about the Texas Department of Corrections, jail reforms and various other information regarding the improvement of the prison system have been compiled together.
Training and recruitment of volunteers, volunteer meetings and various other workshops pertaining to the volunteers has been put together in this series.
This series has a large collection of inmate letters and logs of the prison visitation by volunteers and logs about the donation of apparel to the inmates.
Christmas Project was one of the most important events during any calendar year. The inmates were given gifts and group events were held to get the joyous mood among the prisoners.
This series holds the documents about the organizations and corporate donors who helped “Women for Justice” run the various programs of theirs by monetarily contributions or in any other form.
Printed information about organizations or criminal justice information in general.
Prints and slides of Women for Justice activities/volunteers.
Ninfa’s Papers include business plans, business, personal, and political correspondence, photographs, magazine and newspaper clippings press coverage, proof of public service deeds, scrapbooks, artifacts (buttons and stamps, memorabilia, menus, plaques), and framed enlarged picture and media items and roughly cover the years from 1971 to 2001.
Scenic Houston is a chapter of Scenic Texas, Inc., a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that focuses on promoting policies and actions that enhance the beauty and appeal of our streetscapes and roadways. Scenic Houston works to reduce existing billboard blight, prevent new billboard construction, foster attractive on-premises signage, incorporate context-sensitive design in the planning of highways and other public projects, and protect the natural beauty and distinctive character of our communities for the benefit of successive generations.
Scenic Houston – Scenic Texas Collection includes 9 boxes and records from Billboards Limited, Scenic Houston, Scenic Texas, Scenic America, Scenic Austin, Scenic Dallas, Scenic Fort Worth, Scenic San Antonio, Greater Houston Partnership, Quality of Life Coalition, Scenic Conservation Advisory Council, Houston-Galveston Area Council, Facts and History, Minutes/ Directors and Committees, Events, Street Improvement Projects, Sign Projects, Billboards, Surveys Polls and Public Opinion, Ordinances Legislation, Policy, Statutes, Social Events, and Press Coverage.
Collection of 43 geochemical data maps from locations in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, Kentucky, and Israel between 1944 and 1975, with most maps from the 1940s to 1960s. Within the collection are maps for methane, ethane and heavier hydrocarbons, pentane, soil gas, sand percent, ethane and propane and butane, and total hydrocarbons.
Samples collected July 10, 1974 to July 16, 1974 and December 30, 1974 to January 6, 1975. Total of 387 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes four maps: (1) Methane Map, (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map, (3) Pentane Map, and (4) Sand Percent Map.**
Unknown sample collection date. Total of 373 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Methane Map, and (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map.**
Samples collected September, 1968. Total of 250 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes one map: (1) Soil Gas Map.**
Samples collected February, 1948 to April, 1948 and December, 1948 to January, 1949. Total of 758 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Ethane Map, and (2) Methane Map.**
Samples collected March 19, 1946 to June 5, 1946. Total of 429 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Total Hydrocarbons Map, and (2) Sand Percent Map.**
Samples collected August, 1968 to September, 1968. Total of 208 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes six maps: (1) Methane Map, (2) Soil Gas (surface) Map, (3) Soil Gas (3') Map, (4) Soil Gas (6') Map, (5) Soil Gas (9') Map, and (6) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map.**
Samples collected October, 1962 to April, 1963. Total of 285 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Methane Map, and (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map.**
Samples collected January, 1950 to February, 1950. Total of 405 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Methane Map, and (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map.**
Unknown sample collection date. Total of 356 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes three maps: (1) Methane Map, (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map, and (3) Total Hydrocarbons Map.**
Samples collected August, 1951 to September, 1951. Total of 72 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map, and (2) Methane Map.**
Unknown sample collection date. Total of 46 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes three maps: (1) Pentane Map, (2) Methane Map, and (3) Ethane and Propane and Butane Map.**
Samples collected April, 1944 to April, 1945, May, 1954 to June, 1954 and May, 1971 to June, 1971. Total of 711 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes four maps: (1) Methane Map (sampled 1944, 1945, and 1954), (2) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map (sampled 1944, 1945, and 1954), (3) Methane Map (sampling supplemented in 1971), and (4) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map (sampling supplemented in 1971).**
Samples collected September, 1964 to November, 1964 and May, 1965 to March, 1966. Total of 1475 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Methane Map, and (2) Iso-Pentane Map.**
Samples collected March, 1945. Total of 356 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes three maps: (1) Ethane and Heavier Hydrocarbons Map, (2) Methane Map, and (3) Total Hydrocarbons Map.**
Samples collected May, 1966 to September, 1966. Total of 740 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes three maps: (1) Ethane and Propane and Butane Map, (2) Methane Map, and (3) Pentane Map.**
Samples collected April, 1965 to November, 1965. Total of 2269 sampled points. The set of paper maps includes two maps: (1) Ethane and Propane and Butane Map, and (2) Methane Map.**
The original order of the Professor Richard Jonas Papers has been maintained where possible. The collection includes limited correspondence, brochures and directories that relate to health, welfare and various community-related agencies. Most of the materials in the collection date from 1934 to 1978 with the majority dating from the 1950s. Items in the collection relating to the university include the Guidance Office, job evaluation manual, the library, the proposed College of Philosophy and Religion and U.H. veterans. The collection also includes a small portion of personal correspondence, which may provide background information and perspective to the researcher.
This series consists of eight folders, arranged alphabetically. The majority of these contain brochures, bulletins or handouts from various conferences or symposia. The folders date from 1955 to 1969.
This series consists of eighteen folders of brochures, bulletins, newsletters and limited correspondence related to different organizations and associations. Folders are arranged alphabetically and date from 1945 to 1957.
This series is the largest, consisting of 366 folders dating from 1934 to 1986. The materials in this series cover a wide range of university-related topics and it is divided into five sub-series: Administration, Other UH Campuses, Academics, Student Activities and Groups, and Faculty and Staff Activities andGroups. Each sub-series is arranged alphabetically. Due to the positions Jonas held at the university, the folders related to the Guidance Office, library and the Veterans Office contain the most material.
The Ruth Pennybacker Collection consists of the teaching aids she used in class, photocopies of plays, news clippings, and programmes. Included in the collection is a scrapbook crafted in 1967 by her students, colleagues, and friends as a tribute to Miss Pennybacker.
This series contains 24 folders, arranged alphabetically. The majority of these contain news clippings, correspondence and plays used as part of the classroom curriculum.
This series contains 25 folders, arranged alphabetically. These folders consist of spiral notebooks and correspondence from the Play Readers group, organized chronologically from 1978-1981. Also contained in this series are poems, programmes and a copy of Pennybacker's 1934 thesis.
This series contains a scrapbook dated 1967, that contains letters, notes and tributes to Miss Pennybacker. Included in the scrapbook are letters written by Joseph M. Doggett, Philip G. Hoffman, John C. Allred, John Q. Anderson, Vassar Miller, and Kenneth Carbajal.
The Faculty Organizations Records primarily consist of organizational minutes, as well as constitutions, bylaws, and reports. Records include those of the Faculty Association (1954-1963), Faculty Assembly 91951-1959), and Faculty Senate (1969-2005).
This series consists of 10 folders in chronological order and date from 1954-1963. The 1959 Constitution and By-Laws of the organization is also included with this series.
This series consists of eight folders and date from 1951-1959.
This series consists of 30 folders and date from 1969-2005.
The Collection contains materials related to the book, A College Forum, edited by Joseph Doggett, Everett Gillis, and Rosa Bludworth, published by The Odyssey Press in 1963. In the Preface, the editors' arrived at what they considered a special design for their work, seeing a twofold need: "the need of the student for readings that will stimulate his own expression; the need of the instructor for a text that is adaptable to either a subject matter or a types of approach."
The Collection consists of one box and includes the preliminary drafts of the textbook along with the editor's corrections.
The American Association of University Professors, University of Houston Chapter Records consists mainly of documents directly related to the organization including the Constitution, minutes, bank statements, letters, correspondence, membership lists, and newsletters.
The UH Veteran's Office Records contain material pertaining to the university and government-sponsored office for the support and advising of veteran students during the 1940s and 1950s. Dates for items in the collection range from 1944 to 1958, with the bulk of the material dating from the late 1940s.
The collection is arranged into nine series: Veteran's Office, Veteran's Staff Meetings, Budget, Correspondence with Veteran's Administration, Veteran's Administration Field Manual for Training Officers, Guidance Office, Veteran's Service Center, Forms, and Miscellaneous. The original arrangement has been kept intact where possible, however some minor rearrangement was necessary to facilitate research. Material is grouped chronologically within each series. Folder headings used by the originators have been adhered to where possible. For additional information on veteran's affairs at the University of Houston, researchers should also consult the Veteran's Village Records.
There are twenty-one folders in this series containing items dating from 1944 to 1951. Material in this series consists of general correspondence between Veteran's Office personnel and University of Houston administrators, as well as some Veteran's Administration and other assorted letters.
The three folders in this series contain minutes and notes from meetings held from 1946 to 1947.
There are three folders in this series. Material dating from 1948 to August 1949 is largely in the form of ledger sheets and financial summaries.
There are eight folders in this series with material dating from 1947 through 1949. Items focus exclusively on correspondence with the Veteran's Administration. [Note: this material was separated from other general correspondence (i.e., what is now the Veteran's Office series) in the collection's original arrangement.]
The one folder in this series is a guide published in May 1946 by the Vocational Rehabilitation and Education Division of the Houston, Texas Regional VA office. It compiles Veteran's Administration regulations and procedures for personnel working with veterans in higher education. Organizational charts and specific instructions for completing various forms are included.
There are three folders in this series with items dating from 1947 to 1950. Material in this series includes floor plans, a blueprint, and correspondence with university administration concerning the construction of an office space to house the UH Veteran's Office. It also contains specific registration procedures.
The two folders in this series contain material from August 1945 through 1948, and some undated items. It focuses on information dealing with a Veteran's service center located off campus, for ex-military personnel in the greater Houston area.
There are five folders in this series containing various forms and registration material required of veterans by the Veteran's Administration and the University of Houston. Material dates from 1945 to 1950.
The two folders in this series contain material from July 1946 and 1958. Documents include vocational school class lists and a copy of The Wesleyan, a Methodist students' group newsletter.
The Veteran's Village Records contain material dealing with the organization of the Veteran's Council, the UH Veteran's Club, newsletters as well as announcements, petitions, and press releases. Items date from 1945 to 1956 with most of the material dating from the late 1940s and early 1950s.
The collection is arranged into seven series: Constitution, Veterans Club Meetings, Record of Activities Council, Petitions, Press Releases and Announcements, Nursery School, and the Village News (the Village newsletter). The original arrangement has been kept intact where possible, however some minor rearrangement was necessary to facilitate research. Material is arranged chronologically within each series. When possible, folder headings used by the originators have been adhered to in arranging and describing the records.
The folder in this series contains two constitutions for the Veterans Club of the University of Houston. The first version is marked as a copy of the October 1945 document, while the second is a revised copy from September 1955. Each constitution also lists by-laws for the organization.
The four folders in this series include minutes from Veterans Council meetings. Most of the notes are handwritten, apparently by the same person. This individual was likely R. O. Jonas, chief counselor for veterans during the post-war era and a faculty sponsor of the Veterans Club. The material dated 1945 and 1946 appears to have been removed from a notebook and contains several newspaper clippings pertaining to veteran's activities at the university as well as lists of club members.
This series contains a notebook with material dating from 1946 to 1947. Items within the notebook range from minutes of meetings and newsletters, to announcements of activities and correspondence.
There is one folder in this series containing material from 1945. The petition was designed by the Veterans Club to assist veterans who had not received their subsistence allowances during the latter months of 1945.
There is one folder in this series. The bulk of the series content is undated. That which is dated ranges from 1946 to 1947.
There are five folders in this series, with material dating from 1947 and 1948. Each folder is an individual sub-series dealing with different aspects of the creation of a nursery school for the Veterans Village. Items include the initial proposal, administrative policies, purchase orders and requisitions, and a conversion plan.
The six folders in this series contain copies of the Village News from November 1946 through 1950, with some undated items. The Village News chronicles important events in the Veterans Village as well as providing names of council officers for specific areas of the Village.
The UH 50th Anniversary (Half Century) Records arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists mainly of documents relating to the various events of the celebration and the committee overseeing the events. Materials include agendas, correspondence, minutes, brochures, forms, calendars, commemorative newspaper articles, and press clippings. The collection dates almost entirely from 1976-1977, with a few items from as late as 1981. The materials are organized into six series: Planning and Preparation; Half Century Events; Media; Personnel; Commemorative Materials; and Afterwards.
This series contains forty folders dating from 1976 to 1978. Whenever possible the original order has been maintained, although some changes have been made to facilitate access. This series has been organized into four sub-series: General Planning, Half Century Brochure, Half Century Forms, and Half Century Logo Use. The folders contain minutes, brochures, mailing lists, meeting notes, programs and invitations, and drafts of various brochures.
This sub-series consists of twelve folders arranged alphabetically. The Planning Committee folders are arranged first by date, then alphabetically. Materials include meeting notes, planning strategies, campaign objectives, and other similar materials needed to launch the celebration. Dr. Patricia Teed served as Director of the Half-Century Program.
This sub-series consists of six folders relating to the creation of a special Half-Century brochure. Folders are arranged in the order in which they were received with items for the creation of the brochure followed by folders related to the mailing of the brochure, and finally the brochure itself. Materials include printing quotations, working drafts of brochure text, mailing lists of individuals, and copies of the final brochure.
There are thirteen folders in this sub-series, arranged alphabetically. Most of the forms in this series are single page documents probably used to gather information on individuals and colleges for use in press releases or newspapers articles covering the yearlong celebration. Other forms are simple departmental forms used for various purposes like tracking long distance telephone calls, weekly part-time staff reports, and forms used to track different celebration events.
This sub-series contains nine folders, arranged alphabetically. The folders contain examples of different brochures that used the Half-Century Logo, announcements of guest speakers, press clippings pertaining to the new logo, and various examples of the logo itself.
This series is the largest with sixty-six folders dating from 1976 to 1978 and is arranged chronologically by event. Calendars for the year and general correspondence relating to Half Century events precede materials associated with specific events. Whenever possible the original order has been maintained. Folders contain materials relating to the many different events that took place before and during the yearlong celebration. Materials include correspondence, programs, invitations, fliers, and newspaper articles and they cover all events including the Half-Century Convocation and guest speakers like Buckminster Fuller and Richard Leaky.
This series contains sixteen folders dating from 1976 to 1981 and is organized into two sub-series: Half-Century Press/Publicity and Community Services Brochure. The folders contain various brochures, general press coverage, University of Houston press releases and notes used in planning some of the events. Some of the brochures in this series were probably used as examples for the design of the Official University Half-Century brochure.
This sub-series contains five folders, arranged chronologically. The folders contain general information relating to members of the press that the university wanted to contact regarding the celebration. The materials also include various press clippings covering the celebration.
This sub-series consists of eleven folders that contain materials relating to the Community Services Brochure produced by the university during the Half-Century celebration. The purpose of the brochure was to give an overview of the various areas of interaction between the University of Houston and the community. The materials consist of correspondence relating to the brochure, working drafts, notes and other information used in the brochure's publication.
This series consists of three folders of correspondence between various people, both university employees and those outside the university consisting of notes in the planning of events, the design of the Half-Century Brochure, and other related materials.
This series consists of six folders of material relating to different commemorative items created to honor the half-century. Included are newspaper advertisements for the commemorative Dr. Pepper Bottle, a deck of commemorative playing cards, newspaper articles about the posters used to symbolize the four topics of the celebration, and interoffice materials relating to the aerial photograph of the campus used during the event.
This series consists of three folders. These materials include the Half Century Final Report from the Deputy Coordinator, Division of External Relations, Patricia Teed, to Chancellor Barry Munitz outlining the many challenges experienced by the Half Century Committee during their eighteen months in existence. This series also contains correspondence and press coverage of the forty-foot long multi-panel display exhibited in prominent locations throughout Houston during the celebration and a blueprint of the Half-Century Monolith.
The UH Statistics Records contain various reports issued by the University. Some of the topics of these reports include Teacher Load Reports, New Students, Statistics, Coordinating Board Reports, and Grade Distribution Reports.
The collection is arranged chronologically with the materials beginning in 1947 and ending in 1970.
This collection consists of twenty-nine Boxes of records relating to all aspects of the College of Arts and Sciences. Materials date from 1937 to 1973, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1963 to 1973. While the exact origin of these records is not known, it is assumed that these materials were collected and maintained by the administration of the College of Arts and Sciences. Most of the records bear the names R. Balfour Daniels or Alfred R. Neumann, both of whom held the position of Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Materials in the collection include correspondence, reports, forms, reading files, minutes, and a large variety of other reference and background items relating to the College of Arts and Sciences and its various departments and divisions. The Folders appear originally to have been filed alphabetically, and this original order has been maintained or restored when necessary. Within files, items are arranged chronologically, with a few exceptions where an alphabetical arrangement is more appropriate.
This collection reflects almost all the events occurring on the University of Houston campus during this period. Not only are most of the College of Arts and Sciences divisions and departments represented within the collection, but also many programs that had bearing on the activities of the college are represented. University wide committees are strongly represented, numerous national associations and organizations are included, and a variety of local and state issues have materials within the collection. Additionally, the construction of buildings related to the college, including Agnes Arnold Hall, Science and Research I, and the Fine Arts Center, are covered thoroughly.
The Professor John Q. Anderson Papers contain extensive materials including letters from former students, a diary, transcripts and other materials relating to American folk beliefs, medicine, and folksongs along with newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, notes, and many other items.
This series contains 24 folders including personal and family background materials as well as family scrapbooks. The family scrapbooks contain a variety of material kept by Professor Anderson, including family photographs, newspaper clippings, and programs, and they are arranged chronologically.
This series contains 88 folders and is divided into four sub-series: Correspondence from Loraine Epps (his future wife), Correspondence During Illness and After Death, Other Personal Correspondence, and Professional Correspondence. The first three sub-series (all personal correspondence) contain 61 folders and are arranged chronologically. Unfortunately, letters written by Professor Anderson to Miss Epps were lost. Professional Correspondence contains 31 folders and is arranged alphabetically by folder title.
This series contains 31 folders and is arranged alphabetically by folder title. Items of special interest to the researcher would include files marked Biographical Information.
These 55 folders contain newspaper articles of interest to Professor Anderson. They are arranged alphabetically by folder title and cover a wide variety of topics including, but not limited to, Buried Treasure, Folk Medicine, Outlaws, and Superstitions, among many others. The folders marked Miscellaneous contain newspaper articles on a wide range of subjects.
This series contains files related to books written or edited by Professor Anderson. The materials are arranged alphabetically by title of work. Some files contain more comprehensive records of the final work than others do. These files include, but are not limited to, drafts, galley proofs, correspondence, page proofs, research notes, and various versions of the final work. The titles included in this series concern 11 works by Professor Anderson and include: Campaigning with Parson's Texas Calvary, John C. Duval, First Texas Man of Letters, Early American Humor, The Liberating Gods, Louisiana Folklore, Medicine and Disease, Tales of Early Texas, Texas Folk Medicine, Texas Surgeon in the CSA, and With the Bark On.
For further materials related to The Liberating Gods, please see oversized Boxes 18 and 19.
This series contains 51 folders related to classes taught by Professor Anderson. The materials include course notes, newspaper articles, cartoons, and songs, related to various topics of interest to Professor Anderson. This series came as a distinct group and the original order and folder titles were maintained.
This series consists of reprints of articles published by Professor Anderson. It contains 23 folders, arranged alphabetically by title.
This series contains 22 folders of notes, ideas, research materials, and partially written pieces found in the Collection.
This series contains 5 folders. Each folder is titled by the name of the work which was under review. Included are published newspaper articles, correspondence, and other related materials.
The purpose of SALA was to "promote the study of literature and culture of Southwestern United States." The Association contracted for the 1972 publication: A Bibliographical Guide to the Study of Southwestern Literature. Professor Anderson served as the first Chairman of the organization.
This collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection consists of Audit Reports, Correspondence, Board Minutes, Proposals, Reports, Rules and Regulations, Resolutions, and Statements.
The Battin Collection contains correspondence, articles, lecture notes, scrapbooks, photographs, scripts, and films. The materials date from 1936 to 1976, and comprise eleven manuscript boxes, one newspaper box and six films, five in reel cases. Because so many articles are one paragraph or less, they were placed with others in Mylar sheet protectors for preservation.
The collection is divided into nine series based on how it was received from the donors. The series are: Correspondence, Articles, Thesis, Photographs, Action for Youth, Lecture Materials, Scripts, Miscellaneous, and Films.
This series contains Dr. Battin's correspondence and dates from 1936 to 1976. The first three folders contain general correspondence; others are identified as miscellaneous correspondence, Florida correspondence, and retirement correspondence. Each of these groupings is arranged chronologically. The general correspondence folders include letters and cards from friends, movie celebrities, and former students. The Florida folder contains materials dated from 1952 to 1954. The retirement correspondence is one folder gathered for Battin's retirement ceremony. There are telegrams, photographs and letters of regret from individuals unable to attend. These are dated 1975 to 1976.
The articles are divided into nine folders: articles about the Battins; a galley proof for his chapter of Television Broadcasting; one 'blue' page proof for his chapter of Television Broadcasting; two typed copies of Handbook of Television Writing; articles by Dr. Battin; articles about television, education, and miscellaneously related topics; and a scrapbook. These clippings were cut from various publications, are often undated and as many as possible were placed between one Mylar sheet. The scrapbook consists of newspaper articles having to do with the reaction of the educational system and television industry to his thesis and the survey used in it. Included in the scrapbook are letters and photographs relating to the newspaper articles. Due to the adhesive used to prepare the scrapbook, it was decided to retain the "scrapbook" format, but to remove the covers.
This series is two boxes containing two incomplete copies of Dr. Battin's thesis, The Use of the Diary and Survey Method Involving the Questionnaire Interview Technique. These copies are on onionskin paper, are unbound, and are difficult to use. Special Collections does have a complete bound copy which has been cataloged [HQ 784.T4.B38 1951].
The photographs consist of one manuscript box of undated photographs of KUHT, KHTV, and other related photographs. There is one folder of motion picture stills from "The Tomboy and the Champ"; part of which was filmed in Houston. There are also photographs in the scrapbook, which have been left there because of the heavy adhesive used to mount them.
The "Action for Youth" Project series contains information from the inception through the production of a series of films and videos having to do with juvenile delinquency. These materials are in chronological order. The project was completed in 1963. The final folders contain announcers' notes from the AFL (American Football League) Oilers versus Dolphins Game, which was played and televised from Rice Stadium in 1966. Included are a series of cue cards used during the game.
Dr. Battin's lecture materials include the "Television Production Handbook", his handwritten notebook and notes, articles related to television, two undated article on television directing and four templates. There is no particular order, as the material is interchangeable and overlaps among itself.
The four boxes of stage, screen and television scripts are in alphabetical order and range in date from 1956 to 1970. The scripts in the collection cannot be copied.
There is one box of 18 miscellaneous items and ephemera. Three films and two videos complete the collection. Films or videos may not be available for playback; contact the curator to inquire about gaining access to these materials.
University of Houston World War II Clippings contains newspaper articles that mostly relate to the University of Houston during the years 1939-1944. Some of the topics covered in these articles include the separation of the university from the Houston school system, Frontier Fiesta, and the university's contributions to the war effort through the offering of special war-related subject in areas including classes in navigation, diesel engine repair, map interpretation, aircraft engine repair, first-aid, and radio service.
The collection is separated by month with the folders placed in ascending order. Four folders containing undated material are found at the end of the collection.
The collection arrived at the archives in relatively good order and in general the original order has been maintained. Materials in the collection include departmental records, extensive press clippings, and videos. The collection dates from 1948-1997 with most of the materials dating from 1977 to 1997. The collection is organized into four series: Faculty Vitas, Departmental Records, Press Clippings, and Audio Visual Materials. The collection did contain a sizable amount of photographic materials in all formats (slides, negatives, prints, contact sheets, etc), that have been separated to form part of the UH Photographs Collection. The Office of University Relations also contained a large number of faculty vitas that were transferred to the Faculty Vita Records.
This series contains one hundred and seventy-four folders, arranged alphabetically. It consists of City Council Awards given to faculty members, annual reports, reports to the community and various other files used within the department. Materials in this series date from 1948-1997 and are arranged alphabetically.
This series contains twenty-seven folders dating from 1977-1980, arranged alphabetically. The folders contain materials including invitations, guest lists, receipts, memos, and other items related to the preparations necessary for these events. The original order has been maintained except where items were obviously mis-filed.
In Memoriam are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each record contains information (education, birth and death dates, place of birth, and positions held) for faculty, staff, and benefactors, associated with the university.
In Appreciation and In Resolutions are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual. Each record contains information for each person or benefactors associated with the university, and outline the major accomplishments of those persons or entities.
In Resolution are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual or organization. Each record contains information for faculty, staff, and benefactors, associated with the university and outline the major accomplishments of those persons or entities
Silver Anniversary Certificates are arranged alphabetically, according to the last name of the individual, with group recognitions for Former Faculty Members and Recognized Faculty at the end. Each record contains information for faculty and staff associated with the university and outlines the major accomplishments of the individuals.
This series contains ninety-one folders dating from 1977-1997, arranged chronologically by month. The articles relate to a variety of university topics including, athletics, special events, awards and many others. However, the amount of informational content within the clippings varies greatly. Some articles are extensive or in-depth in nature where others may include only a brief mention of the university or a direct quote by a faculty member. The original order was chronological which has been maintained except where items were obviously miss-filed.
This series consists of a variety of audio and video tapes including one-inch video, three quarter inch Umatic, VHS, one-eighth inch reel to reel audio, audio cassettes, and several others. Most of them contain public service announcements relating to various university departments or events. The photographs that were originally part of this series have been removed and placed with all other University of Houston historic photographs.
The collection arrived at the Archives in good order and the original order has been maintained whenever possible. The collection consists of thirty-five folders dating from 1958-1994. Materials in the collection include brochures, evaluation results, a few photographs, correspondence, and program booklets that describe the course activities. The only materials kept from the earliest years were participant rosters and programs of activities. Three years (1967-1969) were missing completely. The materials are in folders by year and arranged chronologically. The collection also included several publications relating to the oil industry, which have been filed at the end of the collection.
The processed collection consists of 2.5 linear feet of materials. These materials arrived at the archives in relatively good order, which has been maintained where possible. The collection includes information about the history of the African American Studies Program, the First Annual Wilson Whitley Golf Tournament, fellowship programs, and study abroad programs. Materials in the collection include annual reports, brochures, catalogs, development plans, grant proposals, and reports to the community. This collection is divided into four series: Administrative Records, Wilson Whitley Memorial Celebrity Golf Tournament, Scholarships, Fellowships and Awards; and Study Abroad Programs. The collection covers the years from 1990 to 2001 with one item, a Tribute to Lynn Eusan, from 1971.
An additional 6 linear feet of material has since been added to the collection, but is not yet fully processed. Please contact the curator with questions about access to these materials.
Arranged alphabetically, this series contains forty-six folders dating from 1990 to 2001. Overall, the original folder order has been maintained. This series contains a wide range of materials relating to the administration of the African American Studies program. Materials include annual reports, development plans, reports to the community, grant proposals, newsletters, and publications. This series also contains grievance procedures and policy guidelines for the program.
This series contains a wide range of materials relating to the First Annual Wilson Whitley Golf Tournament. Materials in this series consist of correspondence, press releases, mailing lists, and meeting minutes related to the event. The series contains twenty-four folders dating from 1992-1994 and arranged alphabetically. The tournament was named after Wilson Whitley the late University of Houston All-American football player. In 1976, Whitley was voted the Best Defensive Lineman in college football. He later played professionally with the Cincinnati Bengals for many seasons. After retirement from the National Football League, Whitley worked as an executive for Holiday Inn Worldwide. At the time of his death, he was working on a celebrity golf tournament to benefit the Scholarship Fund of the African American Studies Program. In its first year, the tournament generated over $40,000 in gross revenues. Some of the celebrity players included, Robert Newhouse, Alois Blackwell, Butch Woolfolf, Curtis Duncan, Ross Browner, Isaac Curtis, Francis Page, Andre Ware, Carl Lewis, and Otis Birdsong.
This series contains seven folders related to various scholarships, fellowships, and awards or tributes to prominent members of the African American community. Materials include applications, scholarship requirements, letters of congratulations to award winners, and a small amount of correspondence. Most of the materials date from the 1995-1996 academic school year. Transcripts have been removed and destroyed, following the Texas Open Records Act. Some of the different awards include: the Sheeler Scholarship Fund, the Academic Excellence Scholarship, the African American Studies Graduate Fellowship Program, the African American Studies Program, Debbie Haley Community Service Scholarship, and the John Ruben Sheeler Memorial Scholarship Awards.
This series consists of fifteen folders, which contain informational materials relating to different study abroad programs including locations in Ghana, South Africa, Tunisia, England, Spain, Zimbabwe, France, India, Israel, and Jamaica. Most of the materials in these folders date between 1996-1999 and are arranged alphabetically.
2 linear feet of unprocessed materials accompany the main collection. An additional 4 linear feet arrived in 2016 as accession #2016-014.
The collection contains financial, promotional, and managerial records of Hazelwitch Productions from the date of its receipt of Certificate of Operation in July 1981 to its final production in 1996. With the exception of some of the financial records, there was no consistent scheme of organization in the collection. Material is arranged in five series: Financial Records, Production Management, Promotional Material, Dissolution Materials, and Miscellaneous. Financial records constitute two-thirds of the collection. Although there is no documentation of finances before the organization's incorporation in 1983, evidence of detailed accounting, and tax records from 1984-1996 provide insight into the day-to-day running of the corporation during these years.
There is very little correspondence in the collection, but dated notes and performance agreements document management of the corporation's productions from 1989-1996. The collection provides very little coverage of performances before 1989, beyond an inclusive collection of promotional material from 1982-1996.
The last two series in the collection, Miscellaneous and Dissolution Materials, were added to the collection separately during the summer of 1998, and were therefore processed separately. They contain financial materials and material pertaining to productions. The collection also contains two placards; both have been placed in the Miscellaneous sub-series. The larger placard has been stored separately from the Hazelwitch collection; it is stored with oversize materials from other collections.
There are forty-six folders in this series dating from 1984-1996. Initially, all receipts of purchases, telephone bills, postal service invoices, and receipts of deposits made, were kept with duplicates of checks written from the Hazelwitch account. These records have been maintained in this order in folders 12-21. After 1987 check duplicates were filed separately and were apparently not retained after 1990. Folder 22 contains a package of records, which had been collected separately, possibly for the purpose of preparing tax returns. In general no consistent filing scheme was used for receipts and bills after 1989 and receipts have been organized in chronological order by date of purchase. Of particular note from this period are the financial statements prepared by Katherine Hubbard from 1992-1995, which reveal the financial status of Hazelwitch Productions, Inc. during its final years of operation. Tax records in the series include franchise tax reports, corporation income tax returns and all supporting documentation. These were filed by year and have been retained in their original order.
The eighteen folders in this series contain material from 1981-1996. The notes in folders 20-24 document meetings of Hazelwitch members and plans for productions. Folders 25-31 contain papers that cover all aspects of performance agreements with artists: technical, personal and housing riders, exhibit agreements, contract/budget settlement riders, and public appearance agreements. They also contain worksheets drawn up by Hazelwitch staff in preparation for shows. Papers are grouped by performer to reflect their original order. Documents pertaining to the legal status of the corporation are also included in this series.
There are sixteen folders in this series containing flyers of productions, completed mailing list request forms, and publicity material which dates from 1982-1986. Four sets of returned invitations mailed during 1995 and 1996 constitute the bulk of the series. Notable in the series is the commemorative packet "A Trip Down Memory Lane With Hazelwitch Productions," a collection of flyers advertising the corporation's productions and events from 1982-1996. These were removed from their original file for the purpose of preservation. This series also contains an oversized promotional display board celebrating fifteen years of Hazelwitch productions.
This series contains fifteen folders, dating from 1990-1998. This series arrived at a later date than the bulk of the collection and was therefore processed separately. The bulk of the series, however, dates from 1996-1998, and holds financial records and correspondence relating to the dissolution of Hazelwitch. The series contains information regarding the disposition of the final funds of the organization, which may be of interest to the researcher.
This series contains six folders, dating from 1994-1996. This series arrived at a later date than the bulk of the collection and was therefore processed separately. Materials include Patty Larkin Performance, Venue Information, Calendar and Miscellaneous Entertainment. This series includes two placards. The larger tri-fold one has been placed with oversize materials from other collections.
This collection is composed of minutes, budgets, programs, and ephemera, arranged into four series. The materials date from 1964-1998 and are organized, for the most part, chronologically. The collection also includes eleven trophies dating from 1991 to 1993. The trophies were awarded at local and national conferences for chapter attendance and best scrapbooks.
This series contains minutes and related materials, such as budgets, dating from 1966-1986. It also contains the organization's Constitution and By-laws, and two annual reports of the Top Teens of America, Inc. The materials are arranged chronologically. A small three ring binder entitled "Governance" and dated 1998, is in Box 3.
This series contains an almost complete run of The Crown, the annual publication of the Top Ladies of Distinction. The Crown includes photographs, capsule histories of the area chapters, and information about the activities of the organization. The series also includes three newsletters and a resources manual.
This series is composed of various programs, which document the meetings of the Top Ladies of Distinction. The Syn-Lod programs detail the annual meeting of the organization, which draws members from across the country. Additional programs are included for various area meetings and activities held throughout Texas. Some of the Syn-Lod program folders contain additional materials from the yearly meeting.
This series contains three scrapbooks and one framed name/logo plate for the Houston Chapter of the Top Ladies of Distinction. Each of the scrapbooks consists of photos, programs, and written material revealing the history, members, and activities of the organization. The scrapbooks have not been taken apart and re-foldered.
This collection documents the career of Nikki Van Hightower from the time of her appointment as Women's Advocate up to, and including, her work as Harris County Treasurer. It contains material dating from 1967 to 1997, with the bulk of the material dating from 1977 to 1989. Types of material within the collection include correspondence, memoranda, reports, studies, speeches, commentaries, press statements, publications, diaries, photographs and clippings.
The papers were originally filed in broad subject categories which have, where possible, been retained in the eight series titles: Women's Advocate, Radio, Houston Area Women's Center, International Women's Year, Political Publicity, Speeches, Personal Files, and Clippings. In order to facilitate research, files were broken down into a more detailed topical arrangement. Folders are arranged alphabetically by title within series and sub-series. Where possible, papers are arranged chronologically within folders. When dates are consistently lacking, as with the speeches and radio commentaries, material is arranged alphabetically by title.
Van Hightower's work as Women's Advocate is particularly well documented in the collection. The papers reveal the significance of that position in relation to city government and to the fact that Houston was chosen as the site of the International Women's Year National Conference in 1977.
The papers representing Van Hightower's work at KTRH reveal the extremes of opposition and support which could be engendered by the kind of direct approach to controversial social issues which Van Hightower took in the 1970s.
Also notable are the speeches and clippings. The speeches constitute a substantial portion of the collection, revealing the range of subjects oh which Van Hightower spoke, and the extent of her community involvement. The clippings provide a valuable insight into media treatment of feminism during the 1970s and 1980s.
The Houston Area Women's Center series is the smallest in the collection. Van Hightower's work as Executive Director for the Center is more fully documented in the Houston Area Women's Center collection, also housed in the Carey C. Shuart Women's Research Collection.
This series contains thirty-one folders. Papers date from 1973 to 1978, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1976 to 1978. The series is divided into three sub-series: General Files, Reports and Studies, and Women's Rights Coordinating Council. Of particular note are the correspondence and memoranda files, which document the particular practices and policies with which Van Hightower took issue, and the range of opposition and support she received in response. Also noteworthy are the studies on the status of women in Houston.
There are forty-five folders in this series, with two sub-series representing the two different capacities in which Van Hightower worked with Radio Station KTRH: Daily Commentaries/ Doubletalk, and Women's Advocate Hour. Material dates from 1976 to 1979. The correspondence in the first sub-series consists almost entirely of letters from listeners. Correspondence in the second sub-series relates primarily to arrangements for the show. Guests of note on the Women's Advocate Hour included Ellie Smeal, then President of the National Organization of Women, and Gloria Steinem.
This series contains ten folders with material dating from 1977 to 1986. Initially, these files contained very little correspondence; correspondence and memoranda pertaining specifically to the Women's Center have since been transferred to this series from Van Hightower's personal files. The series also contains reports and publications.
This series contains thirty-seven folders in three sub-series, which reflect the original arrangement: Texas Women's Meeting, Houston Conference Preparations, and National Conference. Material dates from 1976 to 1987, with the bulk of the material being from 1977. In the first sub-series, folders labeled "Committee Materials" contain papers relating to the activities of the Coordinating, Advisory, and Executive Committees of the Texas Commission on the Observance of International Women's Year Decade. Because separation of these papers would have disrupted the original order entirely, these folders contain a combination of agendas, minutes, membership lists, procedures, rules and memoranda. For the same reason, the term "correspondence" should be interpreted loosely here. Notable correspondents in this series include Judge Elizabeth Athanasakos (Presiding Officer of the National Committee on the Observance of International Women's Year), Hilary Whittaker (Conference Coordinator), and Bella Abzug (Secretariat for International Women's Year).
This series contains ten folders dating from 1983 to 1989, with the bulk of the material from 1987 to 1989. Materials include election campaign publicity material, press releases, statements, and transcripts pertaining to two issues of particular prominence: the debate over transferring duties from the County Auditor to the Treasurer, and the 25.5% pay increase which County Commissioners awarded themselves in the 1989 budget. These files originally contained clippings which have been transferred to the clippings series.
There are one hundred twenty-nine folders in this series. Although much of the material is not dated, some speeches have had dates supplied using information from Van Hightower's 1997 resume. Dates covered are 1967 to 1994. The series is divided into seven sub-series: Education, Government and Finance, History and Status of the Women's Movement, Women in Business and Political Life, Women in Crisis, Miscellaneous Subjects, and Speaking Engagement Arrangements. The first six sub-series contain full text versions and plans of speeches, presentations, statements, and testimonies. Folders also contain notes and accompanying material when applicable. Since the majority of speeches and plans were titled, they are arranged alphabetically by title in individual folders. Speeches with the same or similar titles may be foldered together. Titles of sub-series were imposed by the processor, and some assumptions had to be made about which speeches accompanying material was originally related. Untitled speeches are located at the end of the appropriate sub-series. In most cases there is no indication of the audience to which a speech was addressed. Those named include the following: American Association of University Women American Society for Public Administration Bay Area Turning Point Auxiliary Club Center for Women's Opportunities Conference for County Councils on the Status of Women First South Central Women's Studies Conference Gulf Coast Community Services Association Gulf Coast Section Society of Petroleum Engineers Houston Chapter of Hadassah Houston Independent School Board Houston Philosophical Society Houston Police Department Independent School Association of the Southwest National Council of Jewish Women National Management Association, Lockheed Northshore Rotary Club Palacios High School Rotary Club of Houston Society for Histopathologists Society for Medical Technology Texas 71st Air Force Junior R.O.T.C. Squadron Texas Association for Drug Abuse Services Inc. Texas Education Agency Texas Women's Political Caucus Texas Women's University Unitarian Universalist Fellowship of Brazos Valley United States Customs Service University of Houston Academic and Professional Women's Association Women's Economic Club
This series contains thirty-eight folders of material dating from 1974 to 1997, with the bulk of the material from 1974 to 1989. Correspondence files contain a variety of communications relating to Van Hightower's involvement in clubs and committees, notifications of awards and honors, letters of thanks and congratulations, and letters from personal friends and family. Correspondents of note include Betty Ford, Ann Richards, Liz Carpenter, and Eleanor Tinsley. A significant portion of the correspondence could be considered "business" rather than personal. Since it is difficult, however, to determine the division between Van Hightower's personal and official community involvement, most of the correspondence was left in these personal files, with the exception of some material pertaining to the Houston Area Women's Center. Van Hightower's resume, in box 12 folder 13, provides a comprehensive survey of her achievements. The series also contains some photographs which are filed with accompanying correspondence, or at the end of the series.
There are twenty-seven folders in this series, containing newspaper clippings and magazine articles dating from 1973 to 1992. The material is arranged into subjects which, where possible, reflect series titles, and is ordered chronologically within folders. The clippings provide extensive coverage of some of the key points in Van Hightower's career. Van Hightower's election campaign for City Council is documented more fully here than in the Political Publicity series. Also prominently represented are the offices of Women's Advocate and County Treasurer. Newspaper clippings have been photocopied for preservation reasons.
The records of the Greater Houston Women's Foundation (GHWF) consist mainly of documents related to the organization, including financial and administrative records, membership records, newsletters, correspondence, and some oversize material such as promotional posters and placards.
The material is arranged into eleven series: Administrative Records, Articles, Correspondence, Education, Ephemera, Financial Records, Invitations, Membership Records, Newsletters, Oversize Materials, and Studies/Research.
This series contains thirteen folders, dating from 1990 to 2000. In general, the original order has been maintained, although some changes have been made to facilitate access. The folders contain minutes and memoranda of the Board of Trustees meetings and Executive Committee meetings. There were no minutes for 1992. The series also contains policies and procedures guidelines for the organization, as well as a sublease agreement. Unless they were attached to the minutes of meetings, some items, such as Treasurer's Reports have been moved to other series. The Foundation did not hold board meetings in December of any year. A number of miscellaneous financial documents were placed at the back of the original folder dated 1997, and these items have been moved and re-foldered.
This series contains ten folders, dating from 1991 to 1999. It contains materials such as flyers, brochures, and packets pertaining to educational seminars and conferences sponsored by the Greater Houston Women's Foundation. Most of the educational seminars concern financial planning and money management.
This series contains six folders, dating from 1992 to 1997. The folders are arranged chronologically rather than alphabetically in order to show more clearly the issues of interest to the Greater Houston Women's Foundation over the years. Included in this series are the research projects and studies compiled by the Greater Houston Women's Foundation, in conjunction with such institutions as the University of Houston Graduate School of Social Work, the University of Houston College of Business Administration, Texas Southern University, and Houston Community College. Topics of the studies include the status of women and girls in Houston, corporate relationships with female-owned businesses, education and employability, and girls in gangs.
This series contains one folder of newsletters of the Greater Houston Women's Foundation, dating from 1990 to 1999. Beginning in 1992, four newsletters a year were produced. The newsletter holdings are not complete: numbers 2 and 3 of 1992 are missing; the Spring 1997 issue is missing, although it may have been made a part of the Winter 1996-1997 issue, which precedes it; the Winter 1997, Spring 1998, and the Summer and Fall 1999 issues are missing.
This series contains eighteen folders, dating from 1990 to 1997. It includes records such as bank statements, financial statements, invoices, receipts, and treasurer's reports. Within the series, the sub-series are arranged alphabetically and then chronologically. Most of the financial records have been left in their original order, although a few sub-series were created to facilitate access to the records.
This series contains thirteen folders, dating from 1990 to 1998. It includes mostly thank-you notes, general correspondence to and from members of the organization, and internal memoranda. The creator had a separate folder, labeled "thank-you notes," which was arranged in roughly chronological order by year. Some items had post-it notes saying "correspo from member" or just "correspo," but all the items were in the "thank-you notes" folder. Several cards are from prominent Texas and Houston women, and the notes generally refer to luncheons, programs or fundraisers sponsored by the Greater Houston Women's Foundation.
This series contains three folders, dating from 1991 to 1999. It includes invitations to the Celebration luncheons, the Excellence awards luncheons, the Membership luncheons, and to various other luncheons, roasts and fundraisers sponsored by the Greater Houston Women's Foundation. The folder contents are arranged chronologically.
This series contains twenty folders, dating from 1990 to 1994. It contains records and documents pertaining to membership in the Greater Houston Women's Foundation. The materials in this series have been left in their original order. The creator organized the membership applications according to the monetary donation level. The items were then arranged alphabetically by member's name. The database membership record has been left in its original order, with some additions. Not all of the pages of the database membership record are numbered, and so page numbers and letters have been assigned to the unnumbered pages to ensure that they remain in their original order. For example, the page following 7 is 7a. In some cases, page numbers, such as 28, are missing, and there is only one page (27a) between 27 and 29. In other cases, there is a page between the numbered pages (32a is between 32 and 33), or multiple pages between numbered pages (33a and 33b are between 33 and 34). When a charter member's application was missing, the creator inserted a blank sheet with the charter member's name. The membership lists for 1992 and 1993 were arranged according to zip code, rather than alphabetically, and that arrangement has been retained. Some of the membership applications are dated and others are not. Some of these dates may pertain to a renewal of membership, rather than to an original membership. Membership records and lists cannot be photocopied.
This series contains two folders, dating from 1990 to 1999. One folder contains articles that specifically mention the Greater Houston Women's Foundation, while the other folder contains articles that concern women in general.
This series contains two undated items, a pink T-shirt and a silver pin of three interlocking circles in a green felt drawstring bag. These items have been separated and placed in box 5.
This series contains fourteen oversize items, most of which are large placards and promotional materials. Only a few of the items are dated. The placards have been separated; some have been placed in oversize box 6 and three others have been placed within a folder on top of box 6.
The Hispanic Women in Leadership collection contains information about the group's conferences, meetings, organization, and programs. The conferences series is the largest, as the annual conference is the main activity of Hispanic Women. The group organized their papers in three-ring binders, but in order to facilitate access to the collection, the material has for the most part been re-arranged chronologically in broad series such as administrative, correspondence, and conferences, and then further divided into sub-series. For preservation reasons, facsimiles on thermofax paper and newspaper articles have been copied onto regular paper, and newspapers have been placed in a separate oversize box.
Two boxes of unprocessed material were donated in 2016 and are identified as Accession #2016-029.
The Administrative series contains the papers pertaining to the administration of Hispanic Women in Leadership from the organization's inception in 1988 through 2000. The series is divided into three sub-series, Organizational, President, and Secretary. The Organizational subseries contains three folders, dating from 1988 to 2000. They contain basic information on the group's history, organization, and leadership. The President sub-series contains six folders, dating from 1989 to 1999, and includes mainly financial records. The Secretary sub-series contains nineteen folders, dating from 1988 to 1999. This sub-series contains items such as agendas and minutes of board and general meetings, calendars, membership information, newsletters, and news clippings. A separation sheet in the folder indicates if a newspaper has been removed to the oversize box. The material in both the President and Secretary sub-series is arranged chronologically. In order to facilitate access, the material in the President and Secretary sub-series has been significantly re-arranged and a new order imposed. Hispanic Women in Leadership used binders to arrange the majority of the papers in the Administrative series. Each officer, at the beginning of their term of office, was given a binder for their papers. Some of the binders were better organized than others, and some of the binders for a particular officer or year were missing. There was also a lot of duplication of papers. To create a consistent and clear arrangement, the material has been divided functionally between the offices of president and secretary. These were the only consistent binders, and many of the papers in other binders, such as vice-president, were also found in the president or secretary binders.
This series contains nine folders, dating from 1988 to 2000. The material is arranged chronologically, not by writer or recipient. It does not include correspondence relating to conferences, which is in the conferences series.
This series contains ninety folders and comprises the bulk of the material in the Hispanic Women in Leadership collection. The materials date from 1988 to 2000. This series is arranged chronologically, and within each year, items have been divided, in general, into ten subjects. These ten subjects were common to most of the conferences except the early ones. As time went on, the annual conference became larger and more elaborate. The earliest conferences therefore do not contain as much material or as many subjects as more recent conferences The subjects are conference committees, correspondence, evaluations, exhibitors, financial, hotel, program, public relations/publicity, registration, and speakers. They are arranged alphabetically. The 2000 conference correspondence folder includes a letter from Texas Governor George W. Bush congratulating Hispanic Women in Leadership on a successful conference.
This series contains thirteen folders, dating from 1992 to 1999. The majority of this series is scholarship applications from 1992 and 1993, with some correspondence specifically related to the scholarships. For privacy reasons, transcripts of students applying for scholarships have been removed and destroyed. The applications are arranged alphabetically and then chronologically, and the correspondence is arranged chronologically.
This series contains seventeen folders, dating from 1988 to 1999. The material includes information about activities other than the annual conferences, such as fashion shows, art exhibits, and garage sales. The material is arranged chronologically.
This series contains thirteen folders, dating from 1977 to 1999 and consists of material about organizations other than Hispanic Women in Leadership, but which are of interest to the group. The material is arranged alphabetically by the name of the organization.
This series contains five items, a cloth book bag with the logo of the Hispanic Women's Conference Committee, a pen from Rice University, a satchel with the logo of Hispanic Women in Leadership, and two videotapes of awards presentations at the 1998 and 2000 conferences. Other than the videotapes, none of the items in this series are dated. The videotapes are shelved with the collection next to box 10.
This series contains newspapers and newspaper articles dating from 1988 to 2000. They were removed and placed in an oversize box for preservation reasons. Separation sheets in the folders refer the researcher to the oversize box. This series also contains two large, framed proclamations, both dated 2000. One is from the office of Houston Mayor Lee P. Brown, and the other is from the office of Stafford Mayor Leonard Scarcella; both are in honor of Hispanic Women in Leadership.
Accession #2016-029. 2 boxes of unprocessed material donated in 2016. Contact the curator with questions regarding access to this material.
The River Oaks Blossom Club collection contains material dating from the Club's inception in 1939 through 2004. The collection is divided into three series: Yearbooks, Administrative, and Photographs. The Yearbooks and Photographs are arranged chronologically. The Administrative series is arranged chronologically, then alphabetically.
This series consists of twenty-five folders, and contains the yearbooks of the Club, dating from 1939-2004. The yearbooks list the officers, the programs for that year, the committees for the programs and the flower show, and the active members. The yearbooks are dated to coincide with the Club's year, which runs October through May. There are a few yearbooks missing: 1948-1949, 1988-1989, and 1989-1990.
This series contains sixteen folders. Items include minutes, the constitution and by-laws, correspondence, newspaper clippings, information about the Club and its officers, and general horticultural information. The minutes from 1950-1960 are bound in a book. The minutes from 1973-1982 were in a three-ring, leather binder. They have been removed from the binder for preservation purposes, and the binder has been boxed separately in box 4. Some loose materials have been categorized.
This series contains photographs, mostly of people and arrangements at flower shows. Photographs from a few other events are also included. The negatives from the 1993 show are included in a separate folder. The 1995 photographs are arranged in a photo album, which has not been taken apart. The 1997 photographs were in an album, which has been taken apart. There is one photo of a guest speaker at a Club meeting in 1997. The speaker was the chef from Brennans, a Houston restaurant. Photographs in which people can be identified are placed earlier in the series. Some of the Blossom Club members identified in the photographs include Bootsie Martin, Katherine Manatt, Jeannette Jawarski, Barbara Taitt, Leah Tucker, Grace Gandy, Karol Barnhart, Ann Phenicie, Claire Johnson, and Betsy Anderson.
The papers of the Federation of Houston Professional Women (FHPW) consist primarily of meeting notices, agendas, and minutes; fliers for Federation or Federation-sponsored activities; financial reports; membership rosters; and photographs. The majority of the material falls between 1990 and 1997. The collection does, however, contain the minutes of the original meeting of the FHPW in 1981. Member organization rosters give researchers an impression of women's business and professional activities throughout the Houston area in the 1980s and 1990s.
The records are arranged into four series: Administration, Events, FHPW Educational Foundation, and Mixed Media. The original organization of the records varied according to president. Usually it was chronological by year, topical within each year, then chronological within each topic. Material from the earliest years was interspersed throughout the different series. The current organization was imposed upon the collection to standardize the filing, and to integrate the years.
This series contains material pertaining to the administrative activities of the FHPW. It has been divided into five sub-series: Organizations, Boards, Committees, Financial, and Delegates. The majority of the items concern meetings of various boards and committees.
This sub-series consists of administrative material pertaining to the history of the FHPW, including correspondence and legal documents, dating from 1981 to 1999. It is arranged alphabetically.
This sub-series contains thirteen folders, dating from 1981 to 1999, arranged alphabetically. The majority of the material pertains to the activities of the Board of Directors, and includes notices, agendas, and minutes for the Board and Executive meetings. The meeting minutes of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board have been interfiled chronologically.
This sub-series contains fifteen folders, dating from 1982-1999 and is arranged alphabetically, concerning the various committees that report to the FHPW Board of Directors.
This sub-series of twelve folders comprises the group's financial records from 1982-1999. Most of the material consists of Treasurer's Reports.
This sub-series of twenty folders dates from 1981 to 2000, and contains material regarding delegates to the FHPW. The Delegate Digest was a monthly mailing of fliers intended to keep delegates from the member organizations informed about FHPW activities. The Quarterly General Meetings information, consisting of notices, agendas, and minutes, was sent to delegates in packet form.
This series concerns the activities and events sponsored by the FHPW. It is divided into two sub-series: Awards Banquet and Programs and Workshops. These contain fliers, programs, and paperwork pertaining to the many events sponsored by the FHPW.
This sub-series is arranged chronologically and contains material regarding the annual awards banquet, the FHPW's largest annual event.
This sub-series contains eleven folders dating from 1981-1994, arranged in chronological order.
This series consists of the records of the FHPW Educational Foundation. Materials consist primarily of event records and scholarship applications, with the majority dating from 1995 to 1998 and a small amount from before 1995. The series also contains minutes, logos, and mission statements. This series is arranged into three sub-series: Administration, Scholarships, and Events.
This sub-series contains six folders pertaining to the administrative of the Educational Foundation.
This sub-series contains scholarship applications pre-dating the formation of the Educational Foundation, as well as material from after its creation. The records consist primarily of applications and correspondence related to scholarships. Additionally, the series includes sample application forms, rules governing the application and scholarship awarding process, and background research conducted about other organizations that had similar scholarship schemes.
The seven folders in this sub-series contain material regarding the Educational Foundation's events. The Alley shows were of significance since they were the prime fundraisers for the foundation, which awarded scholarships from these funds.
This series contains photographs, slides, and different kinds of tapes. The series is divided into two sub-series: Photographs and Slides, and Tapes. The three audio tapes mainly concern FHPW orientations. The magnetic tapes contain records of FHPW logos, mission statements, awards banquet meeting minutes, and Board minutes. The videotapes are of awards banquets.
This sub-series of thirty-four folders contains photographs, slides and negatives dating from 1984-1995. It is divided into three sub-sub-series: events, meetings, and people. Included are photos taken during awards banquets and rehearsal tea parties, as well as official headshots of the honorees.
This sub-series is divided into three sub-sub-series: Audio, Magnetic, and Video, dated 1993-1999. The three audio tapes mainly have the federation orientations. The magnetic tapes contain records of federation logos, mission statements, awards banquet meeting minutes, and federation board meeting minutes. The videotapes are of awards banquets and the opening of the federation.
materials from several different series are resprented in this oversize box
The papers for the Houston Women’s Caucus for Art (HWCA) span from its founding in 1978 to 2004. Some items, however, pre-date this period. The largest portion of the records is devoted to photos and to art exhibitions sponsored by the Caucus. The next largest portion includes newsletters, grant applications and fundraising, financial records, and conferences. The remainder of the collection is devoted to information pertaining to the business of the Caucus, membership, and the visual arts in Houston. Many of the items located in this collection do not specifically deal with the HWCA. Some are more general art news, activism, arts organizations, or other chapters of the National Women’s Caucus for Art. These materials have been retained in order to give researchers a sense of the networking, interests, and activities of the Caucus beyond the city of Houston.
The collection has fifteen series: Administration; Firehouse Gallery; Newsletters; Shows; Events; Fundraising; Members; Finances; Conferences; Photos; Clippings; General Visual Arts; Posters; Lectures, Papers and Speeches; and Printed Materials. The original arrangement varied according to year. Generally, previous record keepers tended to organize the documents around fundraising, particularly grant applications, and around art shows sponsored by the Caucus. This current organization was imposed by the archivist, and follows a topical arrangement.
Information on the formation and business operation of the Houston Women’s Caucus for Art from 1978 to 2000 lies in the Administration series. This series contains six sub-series: Documentation, Correspondence, Board, Meetings, Mode, and Office. The Documentation sub-series includes such official organizational information as the by-laws, articles of incorporation, mission statement, various guidelines, and the official history of the HWCA. The Correspondence sub-series contains all general correspondence to HWCA. Letters referring to specific events or grants were kept in those categories. The Board sub-series includes rosters of the officers for the Community Advisory board and the Executive Board, as well as descriptions of board positions. This sub-series also contains two folders, President (Joy Mullet), and Chapter Representative, that duplicate most of the information found throughout the collection. These two folders have been kept intact, as they were found in the original order of the collection, in order to give researchers insight into the activity of a president and chapter representative through the course of their tenure. The Meetings sub-series contains the outline for the original meeting of the HWCA, and the announcements, agenda, and minutes for subsequent meetings. This set is incomplete. The MODE sub-series contains the documentation of activities to identify and address organizational deficiencies under the Management Assistance and Organizational Development Enterprise (MODE) and Intensive Service Program (ISP) offered through the Cultural Arts Council of Houston/Harris County. The Office sub-series includes media mailing lists, notes scribbled on scrap paper, information of office supplies and printers, and the address for the HWCA web site.
The HWCA held exhibitions and meetings in the old Firehouse building on Westheimer Road until 1999. This series contains information relating to that building from its renovation as a community center in 1980, through the HWCA use and upkeep of the facility until 1999. The series is organized alphabetically by subject.
The Newsletters series spans the years 1978 to 2003. They are divided into four sub-series: Houston, Other Chapters, Regional, and National. The National newsletter changed titles several times, from simply Newsletter, to Hue Points, to Update, Member News, and Artlines. An incomplete set of these can be found in the National sub-series. Researchers wishing to find a full set of National newsletters should refer to the National Women’s Caucus for Art archives in New Jersey. The Regional sub-series contains only one folder, and is not specific to any region. The Other Chapters sub-series contains newsletters for various WCA chapters throughout the nation. This sub-series is arranged alphabetically according to state, then according to chapter within that state. None of the sets of these newsletters are complete, and researchers should refer to those individual chapters for more information. Although the National, Regional, and Chapter sub-series do not contain all of the newsletters for those organizations, they have been retained in this collection in order for researchers to ascertain the interaction of the HWCA with their sister organizations throughout the nation. The Houston sub-series contains an incomplete set of newsletters for the HWCA, arranged chronologically. This set is almost complete, missing most of 1986, 1987, 1989, and 1990.
The Shows series includes information, programs, invitations, and correspondence regarding exhibitions sponsored by the Caucus. The series covers the years 1981 through 2003, and is divided into seven sub-series: Schedule of Events, Member Show, Firehouse, Annex, Proposed, Houston Area, and Out of Town. The shows in these sub-series are arranged chronologically.
The Events series covers all events held by the HWCA that do not fall into the fundraising or the exhibition categories. The years 1982 through 2001 are represented in these folders and are arranged alphabetically by subject, then chronologically within each subject. While many of the artists who showed their work at the Firehouse gallery also gave talks or sat on panels in conjunction with those exhibitions, information about those engagements have been left with the information about the exhibition.
The Fundraising series covers the years 1982 through 2002, arranged into five sub-series: Contributors, Grants, Events, Reports, and Miscellaneous. The Contributors sub-series includes lists of Gifts-In-Kind, information about the Kroger Share Card, and correspondence with various companies, individuals and organizations in regard to donations to HWCA. The Grants sub-series is arranged alphabetically by organization. The largest of these groups is the Cultural Arts Council of Houston (CACH). This sub-series contains grant applications and correspondence concerning those grants. The Events sub-series is arranged chronologically according to the particular fundraising event. “Drop In, Switch On” is the most recurrent of these events. The Reports sub-series contains an incomplete set of summaries of Caucus fundraising activities. All other fundraising information can be found in the Miscellaneous sub-series.
This series includes information concerning the members and membership dues. This series covers the years 1979-1997, and is divided into 4 sub-series: Directory, Dues, Rosters, and Miscellaneous. A complete list of members and their addresses can be found in the Rosters sub-series. Much of the information in the Members series is sensitive, and researchers should contact the archivist before accessing this material.
The Finances series contains an almost complete financial record of the Caucus from 1980-2001. This series is arranged into four sub-series: Bank Statements; Checks; Receipts; and General. The Bank Statements sub-series ends in 1999; and it is missing June through December 1994, and all but July and September of 1995. Blazek, et al CPA is the accounting firm that handles tax matters for the Caucus. This folder includes predominantly correspondence with that company. The Budgets folder is incomplete, and reflects only the budgets for the activities of the entire Caucus. Budgets for individual exhibitions are found in the folders for those particular shows. The Treasurer folders contain the procedures for the office of the treasurer, and an incomplete set of monthly reports made by the treasurer at Board Meetings. The Yearly Financial Statements folder is not complete, and includes annual and biannual reports.
The Conferences series contains fliers, invitations, programs and brochures for conferences attended by the HWCA between 1978 and 2002. There are two sub-series: National Women’s Caucus for Art and Other. The thirty-five folders are arranged chronologically within their sub-series. In 1988, the National Women’s Caucus for Art held their annual conference in Houston. Thus, within the National Women’s Caucus for Art sub-series exists a longer grouping for the Houston conference, arranged by topic.
The Photographs series is one of the strongest in the HWCA collection. The photographs in this series depict various events and artwork for exhibitions sponsored by the Caucus. Within the sub-series, the items are arranged chronologically according to event or exhibition. Dates in brackets are estimates based on the location of the photograph in the original arrangement. Unknown photographs and undated photographs are at the end of each sub-series. Most people depicted in the photographs are unidentified. Those who are identifiable are labeled on the tissue paper separating the photographs. Each folder indicates the number of items in the folder, and the type of photo - black and white (b/w), or color. Where possible, the artist of a particular work has been identified.
Folder 143 contains 4 items; Folder 144 contains 4 items; Folder 145 contains 1 item; Folder 146 contains 4 items; Folder 147 contains 1 item; Folder 148 contains 1 item
The Clippings series includes all newspaper and magazine clippings found throughout the original arrangement of the HWCA papers. Due to the great number and concern for preservation of these clippings, they were separated into their own series and copied onto acid-free paper when possible. Some clippings were too large to copy and have been removed into Box 14, although they remain in the Clippings series. The folders are arranged alphabetically by subject, then chronologically. They predominantly follow a similar pattern as the series for the collection.
This series contains general information related to the visual arts in Houston, little of it directly related to HWCA. The series contains material from the years 1979-2002, including some with no date. One folder is located in oversized Box 14. There are six sub-series, arranged alphabetically: Artists, Art Spaces, Journals, Organizations, Politics, Miscellaneous. The Artists sub-series contains an alphabetical arrangement of resumes and biographies of various artists, predominantly from the Houston area and involved with the HWCA. The Art Spaces sub-series includes information about various galleries and museums in Houston. The Firehouse, the HWCA gallery, is excluded from this sub-series because it merits a series of its own. The Journals sub-series contains various arts journals. The Organizations sub-series contains fliers, brochures, and other information about different artists’ groups or organizations supporting the arts. The Politics sub-series includes information on different political issues and candidates involving women and the arts. The Miscellaneous sub-series contains general information that did not easily fall into other categories within this series. Most of the documents in this series are related to local issues. Some organizations and political issues, however, include information from the state and national level.
The Posters series contains all oversized posters for various shows and conferences. The fourteen posters that fall into this series are arranged alphabetically by subject, then chronologically.
This series contains lectures, papers and speeches that pertain to women’s issues, art, and women in art. Most of the material contained in this series does not pertain to HWCA, though lectures given at HWCA conferences are also included.
This series contains publications and printed materials by both the WCA and other organizations. The majority of the material contained in this series deals with the art community.
The papers of the Women in Visual and Literary Arts (WIVLA) consist of meeting minutes, fliers about events, and newsletters. All material dates from 1994 to 2011. The collection arrived in the archives in excellent order, arranged neatly into newsletters and meeting minutes, which were filed and arranged chronologically. The collection has been broken into five series: Administration, Publications, Events, Multi-Media, and Various Materials.
This series consists of materials related to the administration of the organization. Included are materials related to the history and governance, finances, and membership of WIVLA. The sub-series related to the Board of Directors includes both meeting minutes as well as information on Board Retreats. For photograph materials related to meetings and retreats refer to Series 4. All meeting minutes and treasury reports are not to be photocopied at any time.
This series consists of publications released by WIVLA including newsletters and anthologies. The newsletters contain information about the organization and events WIVLA was involved. The anthologies are printed collections of members’ works including poems, stories and artwork.
This series contains documents pertaining to events in which WIVLA played a primary role. The material may include correspondence, programs, and invitations for the stated events. For event photographs and other audio visual materials refer to Series 4.
This series consists of photographs, negatives, slides, prints and audio visual materials. All material is organized by name of the event. Some photographs have been labeled with information provided by WIVLA.
This series contains materials that do not fit into any of the previous series. Most of the material held in this series does not pertain directly to WIVLA. Included are two pieces of art work made by members of the organization.
Although the Women's Assembly founded Brigid's Place in 1996, the papers in ththe processed portion of this collection span from 1974 to 2011. Some research items date to the late 1980s and early 1990s. The original accession of papers arrived in five boxes, which split naturally into the two categories of the Women's Assembly and Brigid's Place. The papers were arranged topically and chronologically.
The largest portion of the papers concern the Women's Assembly and Brigid's Place, which are the first two series of the collection. Because the activities of the Women's Assembly quickly became synonymous with Brigid's Place, the papers of the Assembly are included with Brigid's Place beginning with 1996, the year of its foundation. Therefore, the papers relating to the Women's Assembly from 1993 through 1995 were placed in the Women's Assembly series. All papers from 1996 on are in the Brigid's Place series; however, researchers may note some overlap with 1996, and should check both series for complete documentation. These two series contain administrative records; agendas, minutes, notes and fliers for the Rotating Circle and Small Groups; the records of activities, speakers, and ministries for both organizations; and publications.
Papers filed throughout the collection, but which did not directly relate to the functioning and activities of either Brigid's Place or the Women's Assembly, are arranged into two more series: Christ Church, and Other Related Information. The Christ Church series contains various newsletters, minutes, and documents relating to the Christ Church Cathedral, and to other organizations associated with the parish. Other Related Information contains information regarding other religious and women's organization not directly tied to Christ Church, as well as various research materials. The current organization is primarily topical by series and sub-series, and is either topical or chronological within the sub-series.
Two additional boxes of materials were acquired in 2013 and have not yet been processed. These are currently described as Series 5, but may later be integrated with other series once processed.
Brigid's Place contains the papers relating to the administration and activities of the women's center at Christ Church Cathedral, beginning in January 1996 and continuing through 1999. This series is divided into eight sub-series: Administration, Rotating Circle, Small Groups, Ministries, Activities, Speakers, Labyrinth, and Publications. The Administration sub-series contains the documentation for the creation and organization of Brigid's Place, as well as some financial records, correspondence, and information regarding its board of directors. The folders are arranged alphabetically by subject. The Rotating Circle and the Small Groups sub-series include agendas, minutes, notes, and fliers for the Rotating Circle administrative committee and for the various topical committees of Brigid's Place. The Rotating Circle folders are arranged chronologically, while the Small Groups folders are arranged alphabetically by group name. The Ministries sub-series contains similar information, as well as descriptions and plans for the different outreach programs associated with Brigid's Place. Those folders are arranged chronologically. The Activities and the Speakers sub-series include the plans, budgets, attendance records, fliers, and brochures for various liturgical events, workshops, retreats, and educational lectures sponsored by Brigid's Place. The sub-series are arranged chronologically. Information regarding the research and execution of the Labyrinth, a major project of Brigid's Place in conjunction with other Houston area religious organizations during 1997, is contained in the Labyrinth sub-series. The Publications sub-series contains The Women's Journal newsletter, and Lenten Meditations, a group of prayers for women during the season of Lent.
The sub-series for the Women's Assembly are nearly identical to those of Brigid's Place: Administration, Rotating Circle, Small Groups, Ministries, Activities, Speakers, and Publications. The materials are dated 1993-1996. Because Brigid's Place is an extension of the Women's Assembly, the duplicated sub-series contain the same types of papers that are included in Brigid's Place, and follow the same arrangement.
The Christ Church sub-series and folders contain papers relating to Christ Church Cathedral and its other organizations for the years 1985 through 1999. The folders in this series are arranged alphabetically by topic: Administration, Cathedral Organizations, Cathedral Bulletin, Events, and Miscellaneous. The Administration folders are arranged alphabetically, and contain church policies, brochures, parish reports and plans of action. The Cathedral Organizations includes minutes, information, and fliers concerning Christ Church organizations other than the Women's Assembly or Brigid's Place. The folders are arranged alphabetically. The two Cathedral Bulletin folders contain an incomplete set of newsletters for the Cathedral from 1992-1999. The Events folder contains fliers for various church functions. The Miscellaneous folders contains fliers, clippings and other information related to Christ Church, but not directly related to the other subseries and folders in the Christ Church series.
The Other Related Information series contains papers not directly related to Christ Church Cathedral, the Women's Assembly, or Brigid's Place, dated 1986 through 1999. Four sub-series are found in the Other Related Information series: Organizations, Conferences/Events, Research, and Printed Materials. The Organizations sub-series folders are arranged into two groups: Women's and Religious. Women's Organizations include both secular and religious groups focusing primarily on women. Religious Organizations include only religious groups that have no particular gender association. The folders in the two Organizations groups are arranged alphabetically. The Conferences/Events sub-series includes programs and information for conferences or similar events that were not sponsored by Christ Church, the Women's Assembly, or Brigid's Place. These folders are arranged alphabetically. The Research sub-series contains clippings, papers, notes, brochures and publications relating to the various issues that concerned the women of Brigid's Place. These folders are arranged alphabetically by topic. All of the material in the Other Related Information series provides context for the different activities, networking, and ideas that influenced the creation and functioning of Brigid's Place. The oversized box contains three issues of New York Times Magazine, January and April 1990, and June 1993; three issues of the Texas Episcopalian, September 1996, and March and May 1999. The box also contains one page from the April 1995 Texas Episcopalian, and ten sheets of butcher paper with notes written on them.
This series contains 2 boxes of materials received in 2013. Unprocssed materials may be restricted and not available for access. For questions about materials in this collection or to request access, contact curator Vince Lee (velee@uh.edu).
The collection arrived in little discernable order and the processor in consultation with the archivist has imposed an order. The collection is arranged primarily in chronological order and is divided into five series. Series two, three and four are based upon chronological and geographical divisions in Stewart's life: Pre-West Virginia University, West Virginia University, and Houston. Series One, Personal, contains information not easily assigned to the other series, and which spans most of Stewart's life. Series five, Ephemera, contains items such as tote bags, posters, newspaper clippings and plaques.
This series contains nine folders dating from 1924 to 2000, arranged chronologically. It is divided into two sub-series, Biographical Information and Photographs. The series includes a short biography, curricula vitae, photographs and information spanning most of Stewart's life. The photographs are arranged chronologically by decade. Of note is a photograph of Josephine Stewart with Texas Governor elect Ann Richards taken in 1989 and found in folder 8.
This series contains thirty-six folders dating from the 1940s to 1964. The items concern Stewart's life prior to her employment at West Virginia University in 1964. The series is divided into four sub-series, which are arranged chronologically: Correspondence, Miscellaneous, Social Work Practice, and Booklets. The sub-series Social Work Practice contains papers relating to Stewart's work at various public and private social welfare agencies and hospitals. Notes relating to therapy sessions with particular groups comprise the majority of the material in this sub-series. The sub-series Booklets contains assorted booklets, including reports, studies, journals, and brochures about hospitals and clinics. Some of the booklets do not pertain to social work, but have been included in this sub-series because of their date. The sub-series Miscellaneous contains information about Stewart's military service, and a copy of her master's thesis.
This series contains sixty-one folders dating from 1964 to 1975, and it includes materials concerning Stewart's employment at West Virginia University. This series is divided into seven sub-series: Correspondence, Administrative, Classes, Fieldwork, Academic Papers, Booklets, and Social Work Practice. All of the sub-series have been arranged chronologically, except Classes and Academic Papers. The sub-series Classes is arranged by the course number of the class rather than chronologically, which is how Stewart had this material organized. Some of the folders contain information on a particular class from different semesters, years, or institutions. This material was kept together because Stewart organized it that way; she appears to have used the same teaching materials year after year. The Academic Papers sub-series contains papers written by professors and students and is arranged alphabetically by author.
This series contains 149 folders dating from 1975 to 1990, and it concerns Stewart's time in Houston. The series is divided into nine sub-series, which are arranged chronologically: National Association of Social Workers; National Association of Social Workers, Chapters; Council on Social Work Education; Women's Movement; United States Commission on Civil Rights; Social Work Practice; Gay/Lesbian Issues; Booklets; and Miscellaneous/Personal. The National Association of Social Workers (NASW) is an organization with which Stewart was heavily involved in the 1980s. Although some of the NASW material dates from before Stewart moved to Houston, it has been placed in this series in order to keep it with other NASW items. The same applies to the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE). At times, NASW and CSWE mailed out envelopes of information; the dates of material in each envelope varied and often included some things with dates up to one year old. The majority of these materials were still in their original envelopes from NASW and CSWE when Stewart's papers entered the archives. Despite the variety of dates, the material from each envelope has been kept together as originally compiled and sent. The date on each folder refers to the postmarked date on the envelope. Most of these mailings concern gay/lesbian issues. Other sub-series contain material on the women's movement, in which Stewart was involved, as well as items concerning social work practice.
This series is dated 1979 to 1990, although it contains a number of items which cannot be dated. It is divided into five sub-series, which are arranged chronologically: Conference Items, Newspapers, Plaques, Miscellaneous, and Posters. This series contains items such as tote bags, a bumper sticker, newspaper clippings, and plaques. The posters have been placed in an oversized folder, labeled as box 22.
The Women's Fund for Health Education and Resiliency Records collection consists of 34 boxes of material, including fundraising and educational outreach events documentation, administrative materials, committee meeting minutes and files, correspondence, membership rosters, income tallies, research grant applications, photographs, newsletters, and publications. Arriving in two installments, the processed records date from 1979-2014 and were not interfiled. As a result, materials within each series are often housed in multiple locations throughout the collection.
The collection is organized topically into 12 series: Administration, Board of Trustees, Special Events, Granting Process, Gifts and Donations, Printing Samples, Publications, Photographs, Guest Books, Austin Office, and VHS Programs Library. The Special Events series is the largest and includes materials pertaining to annual benefit luncheons, McGovern fall seminars, spring seminars, and membership coffee/lectures. A few artifacts such as two guest books are also included. 5 1/4 inch floppy disks with newsletter files are also included -- please contact curator Vince Lee (velee@uh.edu) with questions about accessing these files.
The Administration series includes documents related to the organizational and financial maintenance of the Women's Fund dating from its inauguration in 1979 through 2014. Materials including mission statement and organizational history, financial records and investments, non-profit status and management, correspondence, office management, and personnel and staff meeting minutes. Only moderate reorganization of the materials was necessary to establish cohesion among the documents incorporated into the Administration series.
All records of the activities of the Board of Trustees from 1979 through 1999 are collected in this series, which includes meeting minutes, correspondence, manual, and retreats.
The Committee Records series documents committee activity within the organization including committees with a short life span and committees that have endured since the organization's inception in 1979. Materials include lists of standing committees plus minutes and correspondence for development, long range planning, membership, newsletter, nominating, program, public relations, volunteer, and ways and means committees. Documents relating to committees as well as the committees' products, such as newsletters, are included in this series. Folder arrangement begins with a folder of documents on the formation and maintenance of various committees and continues with specific committees in alphabetical order. Folders within a particular committee are arranged chronologically.
The Special Events series includes records of all events produced by the Women's Fund. This series has been divided into eight subseries based on the different groups of events: Annual Benefit Luncheons, John P. McGovern Fall Seminars, Spring Seminars, Lectures and Seminars, Membership Coffees, Professional Women's Luncheons, Outreach Events, Fundraising Events, and Speakers' Bureau. Photographs from Women's Fund special events can be found in the Photographs series.
To raise the funds needed to support the goals of the Women's Fund, organizers established an Annual Benefit Luncheon in 1983, with humorist Erma Bombeck as the first featured speaker. Bombeck's charisma and the labors of Women's Fund volunteers drew 1,046 attendees and netted the organization nearly $25,000. Every year since, the Annual Benefit Luncheons and celebrities such as David Eisenhower, John Bradshaw, Ann Richards, and Liz Carpenter help raise money for the Women's Fund's education and outreach programs. Demonstrating remarkable fundraising skill, the Women's Fund invited Florence Henderson as the featured speaker in 2001, resulting in $150,000 net profit. Annual benefit materials were in good chronological order when received by the archives, but considerations for easy access and the volume of documents required imposing parallel subdivisions for each benefit year to create consistency among the events. The amount of material in some categories required splitting the materials chronologically into more than one folder.
John P. McGovern, M.D. is president of the boards of the John P. McGovern Foundation and the McGovern Fund for Behavioral Sciences. He is founder of the McGovern Allergy Clinic, the world's largest private allergy clinic. In 1991, Dr. McGovern endowed the Annual John P. McGovern Seminar for the Women's Fund. Each Fall Seminar covers a topic of interest to the Women's Fund membership. In this collection seven annual events dating from 1991 through 1999 are housed in seven folders.
Spring seminars began two years after the initiation of the Women's Fund, and became the spring counterpart of the Fall Benefit Luncheon. In 1992 friends of Wendy Haskell Meyer offered an endowment to support the annual spring seminar in her honor. Wendy Haskell Meyer had been an active member of the Women's Fund and wrote the first English edition of the The Primer on Women's Health. She died in 1987, and her obituaries are included in this subseries.
Ronald L. Young - "Questions Women Most Often Ask Their Gynecologist," Jaime Cochran and Jean Burkham - "Rape Awareness: Prevention and Psychological Effects," Thomas Biggs - "Who Should Have Plastic Surgery"
Joseph Goldzieher - "Update on Osteoperosis," John Stehlin, Jr. - "Cancer Prevention Do's, Don'ts, and Myths"
Lawrence Wharton - "Chemical Abuse in Women" Workshops - Jane Taylor - "What Every Woman Should Know About Breast Cancer," and Lisa Balick - "Burn-out: Are You a Candidate?"
Jeane Hester - "Advances in Cancer and Leukapheresis," Margaret Kripke - "Ultra-violet Induced Skin Cancer Including the Role of Immunology in Cancer and Aging," Louise Strong - "Family Heredity and Genetic Risk Factors in Cancer Occurrence"
Tom Blocher - "Five Steps to a Stronger Self," Dena Kindred - "The Fitness Fix"
"Health Aging: Myths and Facts," R. Rodney Howell - "The Child is Father to the Man: Aging and Genetics," Noranna Warner - "Aches and Pains, Creaks and Cracks: The Musculoskeletal System as It Gets Older," James Grotta - "Our Brain Drain: How Our Perceptions Change as We Age"
"Health Aging: Myths and Facts," R. Rodney Howell - "The Child is Father to the Man: Aging and Genetics," Noranna Warner - "Aches and Pains, Creaks and Cracks: The Musculoskeletal System as It Gets Older," James Grotta - "Our Brain Drain: How Our Perceptions Change as We Age"
"Health Aging: Myths and Facts," R. Rodney Howell - "The Child is Father to the Man: Aging and Genetics," Noranna Warner - "Aches and Pains, Creaks and Cracks: The Musculoskeletal System as It Gets Older," James Grotta - "Our Brain Drain: How Our Perceptions Change as We Age"
Margaret Maxey - "Women in a Technological Society: Confronting Faust and Frankenstein," Wayne Holtzman - "Body Image and Self Esteem"
Panel - Carolyn Moore - "Nutritional Controversies," John Foreyt - "Living without Dieting," Peter Jones - "Women & Heart Disease," Molly Gee - "Positive Eating"
B. J. Frye, Elsa Rosborough, and Eleanor Tinsley
Kris Rogers - "Acupuncture," Jerry Martin - "Chiropractic," Gilbert Manso - "Vitamin Therapy"
Toward fulfilling its mission, the Women's Fund offered lectures and seminars on women's health problems, new technologies, and advances in disease treatment and management. Offered to the public as well as Women's Fund members, many of these lectures and seminars were free. Seminars are organized chronologically from 1987 through 1995.
Panel: Peggy Smith - "Teenage Sexuality," Sebastian Faro - "Sexually Transmitted Diseases," Susan Pokorny - "Teenage Pregnancy"
Panel: Bruce Shephard, Sebastian Faro, and Marian Wulf
Panel: R.H. Stevens and Guy Bond
Panel: Linda Kaeser - "Aging Well," Dudley Pate - "Health Insurance," Robert Luchi - "Medical Issues," Nancy Wilson - "Community Resources," Anita Woods - "Social/Mental Well-Being"
Panel: Ronald Young, Vicki Schnell, and Dorothy Roach
Panel: Jaimie Cochran, Keith Smith, Catherine Maxwell Hees, and Susan Cohen
Panel: Judith McFarline, Carol Gee, Jeffry Basen-Engquist
Panel: Karlene Kerfoot, Gary Binder, and Susan Wilansky
Panel: Susan Pinero, John Walsh, Caroline Fife, Richard Ruiz
Panel: Jeanne Lynch, Mary Bird Bowman
Contained within the Membership Coffees subseries are event arrangements, hosts, and speakers for the coffees that the Women's Fund established to solicit, reward, and inform members about salient issues in women's health and medicine. Held at a member's home, these coffees offered information on women's health not generally discussed in public at the time that the Women's Fund was established. These events were an opportunity for women who volunteered in many organizations around Houston to afford themselves some time dedicated to women's concerns. Membership coffees were the site of announcements for annual grant awards that supported research and education projects. Documents related to the coffees are arranged chronologically.
Host: Joanne Wilson
Host: Janice McCrory
Host: Marilyn Noll
Host: Laura Lee Blanton
Host: Sally Emde
Host: Rocky Franzen
Host: Irene Weaver
Host: Doris Buttram
Host: Jeanette Jaworski
Host: Linda Finger
Host: Emily Crosswell
Host: Jacqueline Goettsche
Host: Laura Lee Blanton
Host: Andy Delery
Host: Jane Cizik
Host: Jean Chernosky
Host: Fay Burke
Host: Laura Blanton
Host: Roberta Howell
Host: Katsy Mecom
Host: Mary Jo Hunt
Host: Sharon Lorenzo
Host: Jane Cizik
Host: Pat Breen
Host: Odessa Wexler
The Professional Women's Luncheons were organized to appeal to working women who might not be able to participate in other Women's Fund events because of career obligations. Women's Fund members and women at a number of Houston corporations and law firms were invited to these luncheons.
Outreach Events were organized to fill niches of need in the Women's Fund programming. Women's and Girls' Health Day offered a day-long venue of health and wellness programming, including presentations, posters, free consultations with health care educators. Additionally, it offered opportunities for hundreds of Houston area students to compete for cash prizes and college scholarships. A Denim Affair honored a previous benefit luncheon presenter, Janice Woods Windle, on the occasion of the televising of her novel, True Women. The event also served as a fundraiser for the Women's Fund. A celebration luncheon to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the organization was held in 1999. Corporate members and sponsors, individual members and other health-affiliated organizations joined to celebrate 20 years of contribution, education, and progress toward women's issues.
The Granting Process Series includes all the documents related to the process of announcing, reviewing, and awarding grants for medical and educational research. In 1980, the Women's Fund began funding research grants. Funding for those early grants was modest, but over 18 years, the Women's Fund approved and funded 147 grant applications. Total expended funds for these dates top $1,000,000. Besides formal medical research, the organization funded several outreach service programs with far reaching effects. This series includes three subseries: Grant Administration, Grant Applications, and Research and Review Committee.
There are four folders in this subseries, which are arranged alphabetically with folder contents arranged chronologically.
There are sixty-two folders in this subseries, which are arranged chronologically.
Fundraising has been a major thrust of the Women's Fund mission because the organization needs money to implement the other objectives of the mission statement: public education and research support. Included in the Gifts and Donations series are detailed records of ticket sales, corporate contributions, and in-kind donations for administrative support and special events. Folder divisions generally follow original order but were reorganized slightly to maintain chronological groupings.
The Printing Samples Series includes samples of the many invitations, announcements, and programs produced by the Women's Fund over the years. Samples were re-foldered and labeled in original order.
The Publications series contains materials pertaining to the Women's Fund's publications. Publications include Primer on Women's Health, Health Notes, the Body Works Toolkit, What About Me?: A Girl's Guide to Health, Which Weigh?, a set of historical newsletters, and various one-off fliers and publications.
In 1985 the Women's Fund produced a Primer on Women's Health, a free brochure circulated to inform women throughout the Houston community on women's vital health issues. Revised every two years, the Primer promotes the latest in health maintenance information. To date, the Women's Fund, with the help of generous sponsors, has distributed 232,500 copies of the English edition to agencies, corporations, schools, churches, and hospitals. To reach a broader representation of the Houston community, the Women's Fund produced a Primer in Spanish in 1987 and since then the Women's Fund has distributed 106,700 copies of the Spanish edition.
In 1995 the Women's Fund recognized that changes in the insurance industry meant that many women might change health care providers repeatedly over a lifetime. To help both patient and physician with this dilemma, Health Notes grew into a simple, practical strategy for a woman to collect and maintain a personal record of her medical history.
The Photographs series is comprised of photographs of Women's Fund fundraisers, seminars, members, luncheons, programs, and more.
Two guest books accompanied the collection of materials donated to the UH Archives. Neither is identified and only one has entries.
In 1987 several directors of the Women's Fund transferred to Austin and decided to expand the services of the Women's Fund to the Austin community. Membership in the Austin branch was more diverse and included many career women. By 1991 it was clear that the Austin office could not sustain itself and the branch was closed. Records follow original order closely but were regrouped slightly to reflect the organizational pattern of the Houston office records.
A total of 44 VHS video tapes are listed in chronological order from 1991-1999. The tapes feature guest speakers at various John P. McGovern seminars, lectures, Membership Coffees, and Outreach Events. They are arranged in the box from bottom to top, in chronological order, with the most recent events on top.
Host: Mrs. Jane Cizik
Host: Mrs. Linda Gillman
Host: Mrs. Joyce Goodman
Host: Mrs. Odessa Wexler
Tour Guide: Joan Devilbiss, Texas Women University
Host: Joyce Goodman
The collection arrived at the archives in good order and in general the original order has been maintained. Although primarily concerned with Church Women United in Houston, the collection also contains material from the state and national levels. Information in the collection includes material on the history of the organization, business and financial records, materials from the three annual celebrations, and programs from area worship services. It also includes yearbooks, photographs, and scrapbooks. The collection is divided into eight series: History, Administrative, Activities, Yearbooks, Holly Hall, Community Resource and Development, Photographs, and Ephemera. All of the series are arranged in alphabetical order, except for History, Yearbooks and Ephemera, which are in chronological order.
This series contains a history of the Houston group, as well as brochures and a handbook describing Church Women United at the national level. The series also includes a book, Just Because, the Story of Church Women United in the U.S.A. 1941-1975, by Margaret Shannon, a former executive director of the national organization, published in 1977.
The series consists of the business and financial records of the organization, including reports, minutes, and membership information. The newsletters in this series are those of Church Women United in Houston.
This series contains material concerning the organization's activities at the local, state, and national level and is divided into three sub-series reflecting those levels. The series includes church service programs, newsletters, and brochures. The newsletters in this series are those from the national and state levels of Church Women United.
This series contains yearbooks which list the officers, directors, projects, and programs for each year. Within this range of dates, only a few yearbooks are missing: 1955, 1956, and 1995.
This series contains information related to Holly Hall, a non-profit retirement community in Houston. In 1949, CWU in Houston proposed building a retirement home. By the next year, the project had grown to the extent that CWU in Houston was no longer able to financially sponsor the home, and in 1951 that task was relegated to the Holly Hall Board of Directors. However, Church Women United in Houston continued to act as Holly Hall's spiritual sponsor; CWU in Houston raised over $12,000 in 1951 for the project, and several CWU officers served on the Board of Directors of Holly Hall. Ground was broken and a cornerstone laid in 1951, and the home opened in 1952. For more information, please visit the Holly Hall web site at www.hollyhall.org.
The series contains material of interest to Church Women United on a number of topics. Certain folders in this series contain items on a particular subject from several sources, while other folders contain material from only one organization.
This series contains photographs previously held in magnetic albums, but they have been removed for preservation purposes. Some of the individuals have been identified. Folder 13, Miscellaneous, contains photographs which were neither in an album, nor were the individuals identified.
This series contains items dating from 1966 to 1981, arranged chronologically. The three scrapbooks in this series have been disassembled for preservation purposes. The pages from each scrapbook have been removed from their covers and retained in their original order, while the covers have been placed in a separate box.
The collection consists of administrative materials such as meeting invitations and agendas, minutes, financial reports, bylaws, and events sponsored by the Women's Studies department as well as newsletters published by the Women's Studies and Friends of Women's Studies and various ephemera and memorabilia. The bulk of the papers are dated between 1991 and 2011, but a few publications and clippings date to 1980s. The most recent papers include invitations to events organized by the Friends of Women's Studies, such as the annual Table Talk luncheon and other events sponsored by the Friends of Women's Studies and the UH Women's Studies department.
The records are arranged chronologically and divided into series by year, although the first series contains the records from the first 3 years of the UH Women's Studies due to a paucity of documents. Subsequent series correspond to a single year of operation. This chronological arrangement is intended to continue expanding as more materials from UH Women's Studies and the Friends of Women's Studies become available. Each series is divided topically into 8 standard sub-series, except where no such material exists for certain sub-series within a given year: UH Women's Studies Academic and Business Documents; Friends of Women's Studies business documents; Women's Archives and Research Center; Women's Studies and Friends of Women's Studies Financial documents; General Correspondence; Newsletters; Events, Programs and Scholarships; and Clippings and publications.
The KUHT Records includes correspondence, memoranda, publications, clippings, photographs, and related material dating from the 1950s through the 1990s. The bulk of the material dates from the mid-1960s to 1990s.
Please contact the collection curator Emily Vinson (evinson@uh.edu) for further information.
The series in the collection include: Discrepancy Files, Development and Production Files by Jim Fisher and Paul Yeager, Gulf Region Education Television Affiliates (GRETA), Photographs, Ephemera, Awards, Publications, and Scrapbooks.
The FCC requires broadcasters to produce a daily program log on all their broadcasts. If they were to find any variations to the broadcast schedule, they are to produce a document called the Discrepancy Report. The original log is updated with that information to produce an 'As-Run Log.' The FCC no longer requires broadcasters to maintain a hard copy of the 'As-Run Log,' as long as they have an electronic version.
Jim Fisher worked as volunteer and part-time employee for KUHT during 1983-1991, and worked with Bob Cozens throughout that time. He became full-time in 1991, and assisted in the post-production, and editing of film and video projects. In the late 80s he became the station's Development Producer, the fourth person to hold that position. The job involved producing a number of the station's special projects. A short time later the Development Producer's position was combined with the Promotion group to form the station's first Creative Services Department, also temporarily referred to as Department X. Jim was the first supervisor of the Creative Services Department, and after two years he left that department and became the Senior Producer of Special Projects. Most of Jim's productions now deal with a historical aspect; he is referred to as the "go-to guy" for all things involving KUHT archival holdings. These are Jim Fisher's working production files.
Paul Yeager was hired full-time as Producer at KUHT around 1983 or 1984. Before that he worked part-time as a freelancer prior to becoming a UH employee. Paul worked with Bob Cozens in the KUHT Film Department and produced a number of films with a main focus on the arts, one them being 'Journey To the Sky.' Paul left KUHT in September 1992.
On February 23, 1965, forty school administrators met to discuss the Gulf Region Educational Television Affiliates known as "GRETA." GRETA was an organization designed to offer educational television to various school districts. A board of school administrators governed the organization. Through the cooperation of school administrators, teachers, and Channel 8 personnel, programs were developed into the school curriculum. In his book, Public Television America's First Station, William Hawes noted, "GRETA materials were primarily considered supplementary to classroom instruction, although in some cases they were dominant." By 1977, GRETA broadcast in-school programming to sixty area school districts.
Film and documentation related to "Child at Risk" (Box 420, Folders 12-37 and Box 421, Folders 1-45) is closed to research for reasons of privacy and confidentiality.
This series contains photographs of several major auctions which KUHT used to raise funds and to promote the television station. The photographs are arranged chronologically.
On beige poster board, in large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
On beige poster board, in large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
On beige poster board, in large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
In large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
On beige poster board, in large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
On gray poster board
On gray poster board
In large folder with historic photos of KUHT first opening
On black matte board
On black matte board
On matte board
On matte board
Two photos on matte board
Two photos on matte board
On matte board
Copy of picture in large folder
On gray poster board
Three books
Closed to research for reasons of privacy and confidentiality
Closed to research for reasons of privacy and confidentiality
Closed to research for reasons of privacy and confidentiality
242 linear feet of unprocessed boxes arrived on July 11, 2014. An additional accrual arrived in September 2015.
Fine Arts Center plans, KUHT Daily Cougar news clippings, Dr. Robert Parker board
This collection includes the organization's correspondence with the government and members' correspondence amongst themselves, as well as announcements of meetings and different events that they held occasionally. It also includes electric battery review booklets plus articles showing the organization and members' various achievements.
Included are photographs of various occasions hosted or attended by the Houston Electric Auto Association members, brochures showing different clean sources of energy and business cards of some of the people that the members associated with. This collection also contains interviews of the organization's various members stored on different types of media like compact discs (CDs) and Video Home System (VHS). Materials in this collection are arranged chronologically within the series.
Assorted records of communication with and within the organization alongside documentation that shows different facets of the organization.
Communication with and within the organization.
International and national newsletters from different electric organizations. Meeting announcements and different articles showing the organization's achievements.
Miscellaneous items and objects associated with the daily running of the organization.
Compact discs with different material concerning the organization.
Videotape cassettes with different interviews of organization members. Comprised of a Project File and a Subject File, materials in the collection date from 1894-1957 and include project blueprints, correspondence, financials, reports, maps, and field notes. Project File materials document Waldo's professional activities, ranging from construction and site planning to worksite and employee management. These materials document major projects, such as the Beaumont, Sour Lake, and Western Railway and the layout of Rice University, and smaller projects, such as the movement and reconstruction of the Waldo Mansion to its present Westmoreland location. Collection materials also include personal correspondence, financials, maps, scrapbooks of newspaper clippings, and a small amount of material related to the teaching career of Gentry Waldo, Wilmer Waldo's brother.
The Project File series is comprised of 24 boxes of material. Materials are arranged chronologically by project and include project blueprints, correspondence, financials, reports, maps, and field notes. The William David Allred Papers consist of 105 boxes of material dating from 1966 to 1985 that document Allred's service in the Texas State House of Representatives and as Assistant Attorney General. A Political Files series comprises the bulk of this collection, containing correspondence, publications, notes, and other materials pertaining to a variety of individuals and topics that Allred dealt with over the course of his 14-year political career. This series is arranged according to Allred's original alphabetical filing system and provides rich insight into Allred's role as an elected representative and myriad economic, social, and political aspects of the history of Texas. Reports and Publications and a Press Files series round out the collection, documenting Allred's work through official congressional reports and outside media coverage.