All but the title "on perseverance" is in French 
"Tall - about six feet, blue? eyes, brown hair, fair complexion" 
On the same paper: sermon for the Feast of St Raphael, 1844, recommending that we pray to angels, and speaking of his affection for the Irish.
Bishop Loras installed, cornerstone laid, etc. 7 notes, probably all written at the same time.
"For the most revered and noble fathers in the provincial concilium to Cincinnati and for the holy apostolic throne in Rome.... As soon as a provincial consilium will take place in Cincinnati, the obedient will ask him to listen with the following points most highly acclaimed." Richmond, Washington County, Iowa, 24 April 1861, by Adam Handl, Katholischer Schullehrer [Catholic schoolteacher]. It includes the original manuscript, a 1950s handwritten transcription, and a typed transcription, all in German. The 1950s handwritten transcription was done on the back of history syllabi, including Notre Dame summer school. 
saying that he has included some circulars, etc., issued by Archbishop John Keane [not enclosed] 
Swimming, Football, Track and Field, Golf [Draft 2] [disc is damaged but data has been retrieved] [Big Idea Company] 
The School; Lungwamen; Moment; Time and Temperature; Polaroid; Checkout 
Cable Ready; Untitled #3; Is Your Money That Cool?; College U; Pop Loser; Burt's Riff; The School; Thump; Lungwamen; Comic Book Life; PSAs 1998; The Hat; 3 Seconds Into the Future; Success; Daniel P. Sternan; Une Vrai Romance; Moment; Ramona's Roses; Radio Play; Minimum Wage Wrangler; Big White Box; National Pastime; Late One Night; Search, Pause; Play, Reload; Rollerskating Romance; The Dying Soldier; Blind Date #42; Josephine; Polaroid; Two in the Smoker; PSAs 2001; The Paper; Time and Temperature; Fern; Checkout; Adam's Puzzle 
At the 93th Commencement Exercises of the University of Notre Dame 
Subject: Gossip 
Subject: Church of St. Louis IX of France, St. Louis, Mo. 
Subject: Cost of Catholic Education in State of Washington 
Subject: Divorce 
Subject: National Council of Catholic Men 
Subject: The Civil and Religious Allegiance of Catholics - National Catholic Welfare Conference 
Subject: Devoted to Catholic Social Action 
Subject: Devoted to Catholic Social Action 
Subject: Devoted to Catholic Social Action 
Subject: In the Service of Catholic Action 
Subject: In the Service of Catholic Action 
Subject: Devoted to Catholic Social Action 
Subject: Brief Historical Sketch 10th Anniversary 1944 
Discussions in Preparation for Marriage 
Subject: The Catholic Church and Party Politics 
Subject: Consideration of Angels' Intellect and Will 
Subject: Religion and Morality in Primitive Culture 
Subject: The Catholic University of America 
Subject: Constitution 
Central Bureau of the Central Verein 
Subject: Reply to Blanshard's American Freedom and Catholic Power 
With 1925/05/13 Letter - Callahan, P.H., to Robt. L. McWilliams 
Subject: A Self-Help, Family and Community Program 
Subject: Warfare of Science and Theology in Christendom 
Subject: To Save the German Foreign Missions 
Subject: Excerpts from the Messages of Popes 
Subject: The Catholic Interracial Movement and Fr. John LaFarge 
Subject: The Doctrine of the Mystical Body of Christ 
Subject: Tendencies in Religion 
Subject: Explanation of Christian Doctrine 
Subject: The National Catholic Women's Union 
Subject: Church and Liberty 
His explanation and defense of the Faribault School Plan.
Photostat of handwritten "Early History of St. Paul" by John A. Farmsworth, 15 October 1868, with a spirit-duplicator typewritten transcription.
Several miscellaneous letters and transcriptions of letters, a clipping, a photocopy of a photo of Abp. Ireland, and a dinner menu.
Box scores, game writeups, season summaries and reviews, columns, and stories.
Articles on literary and religious topics published in The Review of Politics, America, The Critic, and other journals and anthologies. The series includes reprints of the articles. O'Malley's unpublished writings are filed with other background material for his lectures (CFOM 10-13). 
This series contains material relating to O'Malley`s activities as a member of the Notre Dame faculty (English Department). 
Texts, notes, and background material for class lectures and speeches to outside groups. The background material consists of articles, by O`Malley and others, and student papers. The lecture texts and notes are arranged alphabetically by title or subject. The background material is arranged separately, but in the same manner. Some of the lecture texts appear to be unpublished manuscripts by O'Malley. Much of the material is undated. 
Bibliographies, syllabi, records of assignments, outlines, and copies of exams (questions only). 
Tax records, commencement programs, academic degrees, awards, newspaper clippings relating to Malley's activities, his undergraduate grade reports, and similar items. 
Also minutes of a meeting 
Cover letter attached from Rev. Edmund P. Joyce to Frank O'Malley, September 29, 1970. 
Poems, short stories, and critical essays written as assignments for O'Malley's English courses, including Rhetoric and Composition, Modern Catholic Writers, and Philosophy of Literature. Additional student papers are filed with other background material for O'Malley`s lectures (Boxes 10-13). The student papers are RESTRICTED. 
Correspondence with colleagues, former students, writers, and others. Topics discussed include literary topics, aca demic and administrative activities relating to Notre Dame, O'Malley's work with the Danforth and Woodrow Wilson Foundations, his attempts to enlist in the military during WWII, and the activities of former students. Principal correspondents include Desmond Fitzgerald, Thomas Banchoff, Edward Georner, Willa Cather, and Jacques Maritain. Most of the correspond ence are letters received by O'Malley, few of his letters to others are included. The correspondence series is RESTRICTED. 
The Diocese of Dubuque was erected in 1837 with Jean Mathias Peter Loras as first bishop, succeeded by T. Clement Smyth in 1857 and John Hennessy in 1866.
 Professor of phonography at University of Notre Dame (ca. 1874-1877), and later professor at Sacred Heart College, Watertown, WI.
The scholars who make up the membership of the American Maritain Association have an interest in the life and works of the philosopher Jacques Maritain and his wife Raissa.
Before she retired Charlotte Ames served as the librarian for Catholic Americana at the University of Notre Dame.
Founded by the German Literary Society of St. Louis in 1923; faced bankruptcy charges in 1925.
The diocese was created in 1850, with Joseph Cretin as its first bishop. He was succeeded in 1859 by Thomas L. Grace, O.P., who was then succeeded in 1884 by John Ireland. The diocese was raised to a metropolitan see in 1888, with John Ireland as archbishop. The Province of St. Paul, with its metropolitan and nine suffragan sees, comprises the area of Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota.
A native of Kentucky, Francis Clark worked as university microfilmer at Notre Dame; when he died, he left his many collections to the University Archives.
Frederick James Crosson served as a teacher in Notre Dame's General Program of Liberal Studies (a Great Books program) starting in 1953, held the O'Hara Chair in Philosophy starting in 1976, and was eventually Cavanaugh Professor of the Humanities. He also served as dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame and was active in Phi Beta Kappa.
Teacher of English at the University of Notre Dame 1934-1974; managing, and later associate, editor of The Review of Politics.
Author of Eucharistic Prayers for Children (1976), Liturgy: Work of the People (1984), and This Is the Word of the Lord (1984), William Freburger served as an editor of National Catholic Reporter and Celebration.
Records of Notre Dame's Affirmative Action Committee, including photographs.
Records from Assistant or Associate Athletic Directors, including videos, photographs, and objects.
Records of Notre Dame's Business Manager of Athletics, including photographs.
Records of Notre Dame's Compliance Office, including photographs.
Records of Notre Dame's Athletic Compliance Office, including VHS video tapes.
Letters sent by Bishops Loras and Hennessy; manuscripts of lectures by Bishop Loras; drawings of saints for the Dubuque Cathedral; and a Denkschrift of Adam Handl, Richmond (Washington County), Iowa, 1861.
12 drawings on 11 sheets: Saints Paul?, Dominic, Leo (Pope Leo I), Vincent de Paul, Jerome, Ambrose, Patrick, Francis of Assisi, Bernard (2), Thomas Aquinas, and John Chrysostom. Identifications are in Italian; what we think is St. Paul is not identified and has a bit different look to it than the others.
In four issues of Volume 20, the Notre Dame Scholastic notes that Gregori was working on the Cathedral in 1886: Issue 4, Issue 8, Issue 11, and Issue 13.
Issue 16 mentions Gregori's donation of 21 sketches to the Bishops Memorial Hall at Notre Dame in December 1886. A dozen of these sketches came to the archives. Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art holds other sketches by Gregori for the cathedral in Dubuque.
Records of Notre Dame's Alumni Association, including many photographs, videos, and audio recordings.
Books appearing to be book-keeping workbooks or, less likely, actual accounts, tentatively identified as belonging to Brother Alban; the books, written in shorthand, refer to transactions between persons who could not be identified as Notre Dame students, large shipments to cities of materials that could not be identified, and very large exchanges of money. The ledgers are most likely work-books used for the purpose of short-hand and accounting instruction at the University of Notre Dame.
Pamphlets, leaflets, novenas, liturgical booklets, catechisms, pastoral letters, papal encyclicals, reprints, and miscellaneous issues of periodicals; concerning the history of Catholicism in the United States, Catholic tradition, doctrine, clergy, religious orders, celibacy, Canon Law, Catholic Action, anti- Catholicism, the Bible, the social teaching of the popes, labor unions, scholasticism, immigration; the Second Vatican Council, birth control, saints, the Irish, Catholic missions and missionaries, Catholic education, Fascism, communism, socialism, racism, integration, democracy, international cooperation and peace, disarmament, atomic weapons, war, economics, credit unions, rural life, agriculture, masons, secret societies, atheism, and agnosticism.
Records of the American Maritain Association, concerning conferences of the organization and publications related to those conferences; financial records, including papers concerning Indiana non-profit status for the organization; correspondence, reports, membership directories, and material from meetings; with digital data including HTML files from the website and PDF files containing published proceedings of meetings.
Charlotte Ames' correspondence with Carmelite sisters in Wisconsin and Nevada, including some involving Jessica Powers; also printed ephemera collected at Catholic Library Association conferences and other conferences; printed ephemera from the University of Notre Dame; and a few email messages printed out on paper.
Minutes of meetings of the Board of Directors, 1923-1925; stock certificates; and a letter to the director of the German Literary Society, dated 1905.
Records of Notre Dame's Research and Sponsored Programs / Research Division, including photographs.
Occasional letters from Bishop Grace and Archbishop Ireland; sermons preached by Ireland for the Golden Jubilee of the University of Notre Dame and Father Sorin's ordination, and for the peace jubilee of 1898; also an English translation of Ireland's Memorial to the Holy See (1892) concerning the Faribault School Plan, and Archbishop Keane's sermon on Ireland's receiving the pallium as Archbishop; a transcription of Ireland's history of his own service as a chaplain during the Civil War; a transcription of a short history of the early years of St. Paul.
Microfilm of various sporting newspapers made by Francis P. Clark: Sporting Life, Sporting News, Cleveland Plain Dealer Sports Pages, Baseball Players Chronicle, American Chronicle of Sports and Pastimes, Michigan Sportsman, New England Base Ballist, National Chronicle, New York Clipper, Official Baseball Record, and Weekly Baseball Guide; also Baseball Scrapbooks.
A collection of microfilmed scrapbooks with newspaper clippings on amateur and professional baseball in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, with an emphasis on the 1870s. Contents are divided into ten discrete parts, apparently corresponding to the original scrapbooks or groups of scrapbooks, as follows:
Part 1: Season summaries and reviews [January 1871 - December 1878] and game stories and box scores [April 1873 - September 1881]. Clippings derive from the New York Clipper, and cover the National Association and the National League.
Part 2: Game stories and box scores. Clippings derive mostly from daily newspapers from National League cities, especially Chicago and St, Louis, with coverage emphasizing the National League. [May 1875 - May 1879].
Part 3: Game stories and box scores from the New York Clipper, covering many college, amateur, and professional teams. [April 1870 - November 1877].
Part 4: Articles on off-field developments in professional baseball, with an emphasis on the American League-National League war. Clippings derive from various dailies, especially from New York. [December 1901 - January 1905].
Part 5: Game stories and box scores. Clippings derive mostly from Boston dailies; coverage emphasizes the Boston National League club and other New England area teams. [May 1879 - September 1882].
Part 6: Articles on baseball from the New York Clipper [January 1879 -March 1881], followed by a few general baseball articles from the 1890s.
Part 7: Articles on amateur and professional baseball from the New York Clipper [March 1855 - January 1879], followed by a few articles on Bowler's Field Day in Cincinnati, 10 September 1907.
Part 8: Game stories and box scores from the New York Clipper, with coverage of many college, amateur, and professional teams. [July 1853 -March 1870].
Part 9: Weekly baseball columns by William M. Rankin, mostly written as New York correspondent to The Sporting News [June 1904 - October 1912].
Part 10: Game stories and box scores from the New York Clipper, covering many professional and amateur teams. [March 1878 - July 1882].
[Courtesy of George Rugg, Joyce Sports Research Collection, University of Notre Dame]
Files from the office of Frederick J. Crosson documenting his faculty service, his work with Phi Beta Kappa (of which he served as the first Catholic president), his teaching, his research, and his professional activities.
Correspondence, photographs, published and unpublished writings by O'Malley, and material relating to his teaching activities, including student papers, class record books, and lectures. Correspondents include Willa Cather, Desmond Fitzgerald, Jacques Maritain, Edward Goerner, Edwin O'Connor, and Hannah Arendt.
Mimeographed booklets from his theological studies, 1963-1965: De Ente Supernaturali, De Methodo Theologiae, Activitas Intellectus, Interpretatio Fontium Aetatis Patristicae, all in Latin, the last one with notes in English by Freburger. Manuscripts and mimeographed papers, 1972-1982: William J. Freburger's "Initiation of Infants and Children: a Liturgical Commentary"; "An Analysis and Critique of the Directory for Masses with Children" by James E. Haas; "Adaptation of the Rites of Ordination: Prologomena to the Discussion" by Nathan Mitchell, OSB; "American Catholics and Liturgical Innovation" and "Changing Attitudes of American Catholics toward the Liturgy" by William C. McCready; "Attitudes of Catholics on Religious Education" (NCCB National Catechetical Directory 1976); "Proclamation" periodical by the Liturgical Commission of Baltimore; "Celebration" by the Baltimore Division of Liturgy. William J. Freburger articles 1982-1993; letters 1963-1964 (time of his studies in Rome); Summer Vacation 1963 and Letters from Rome February - June 1966; National Catholic Reporter memos 1992-1993; Christian Initiation of Infants 1985; The People's work: Twenty Years of Liturgical Reform; The Birthday Book; Liturgy Column for Today's Parish 1976-1978; Homilies for Celebration 1976-1978. Also various other documents, correspondence, manuscripts. Also books and pamphlets from his library, including commentaries, theological texts, reference works.

