Includes first-hand accounts of members and elders of Native American tribes in Washington State and Idaho who provide information on long-standing traditions such as language, education, genealogy, politics, religion, as well as hunting and fishing practices.
The collection documents Olympic medalist Franz X. Gabl’s career and interests as a professional skier and ski instructor in Europe, Canada and the Pacific Northwest from his early youth to 2000. Gabl’s achievements and involvement in winter sports are represented including his work for the annual Ski to Sea race from Mt. Baker to Bellingham Bay in Washington State. Gabl’s experiences in the German army during World War II, where he served on the Russian Front from 1941-1945, are also included in the collection.
The collection contains a typescript from aboard the USS NEVADA during the D-Day invasion of Normandy from June 6, 1944 through June 18, 1944. The collection also includes two books about the United States Navy.
This is a collection of discussion papers, mostly in German, relating to Indians of British Columbia and the United States. The collection was produced as the result of an exchange relationship between the Northwest Coast Anthropological Archives of the Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft in Germany and the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies.
The collection contains song manuscripts, correspondence and a scrapbook from Bellingham musician and teacher, Charles Bowen.
This collection includes correspondence and financial records relating to a Bellingham loan, insurance and real estate company.
The collection comprises the corporate, financial, and personnel records from the Leopold Hotel (formerly the Byron Hotel), dating from the early-1900s to the 1980s. There are materials related to early bond- and stockholders, as well as a wealth of information about two of the hotels' managers: John C. Pierce (1936-1960) and George Knowles (1960-1979).
This collection comprises bound volumes detailing session laws of the State of Washington.
The organization Hands Off Washington (HOW) was created to defeat Washington State initiatives 608 and 610 which threatened the civil rights of state and local public employees based on their actual or perceived sexual orientation. The Whatcom County HOW Coalition Council records date from 1989 to 1996 and consists of the organization's financial records, press releases, fundraising events, emails, office logs, pamphlets, newsletters and other printed materials, state level strategies, other like minded groups, subject files relating to gay and lesbian issues, video and audio tapes, opposition files and newspaper clippings, letters to the editor (for and against) the initiatives and gay and lesbian rights, as well as workshop and speaker information.
The collection includes maps and survey notes relating to an inventory of shorelines and lakeshores in Whatcom County, Washington.
The personal papers and notes of Dr. Jack Berryman detailing his work with the Wild Steelhead Coalition as well as research for his 2006 book "Fly Fishing Pioneers and Legends of the Northwest."
The Morse Hardware Company records reflect the activities of this multi-generational Bellingham, Washington based company from 1891 to 1999. Also included in the collection are Morse family materials which document the history of the Morse Hardware Company and the history of the local community which underscore the important role that this family-owned business served in the local community and the regional economy.
The collection comprises the last will and testament of Esther Ruth Ross of the Stillaguamish tribe.
The collection is comprised of notebooks, journals, photographs, posters, programs, correspondence, reports, speeches and writings, clippings, original scores of music, and publications documenting the academic work, research, and interests of Fairhaven College professor David T. Mason.
A collection of over 30,000 individual images from aerial surveys conducted in different areas of the Pacific Northwest (including northwest counties and National Forest Lands in Washington State).
The O.C. Scudder photographs document people, scenes and structures throughout the Bellingham area and Washington State. Subjects include construction of the Mt. Baker Theatre, Chuckanut Drive, Deception Pass, North Cascades wilderness areas, the Northern Grocery Company building, and various private residences.
The collection includes the business records of the Union Printing Company.
The collection includes the business records of the Washington State Good Roads Association.
This is a collection of microfilmed copies of oral history interview transcripts. The interviews were conducted by the Skagit County Historical Society between 1962 and 1979. Topics covered include social life, historical change, politics, agriculture, fishing, and timber.
Lage Wernstedt photographs include photographs and glass plate negatives of mountains, glaciers, rivers, and lakes in the Cascade Range in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska. Wernstedt was a surveyor and cartographer for the U.S. Forest Service in the early and mid twentieth century.
The collection includes photographs, newsletters, scrapbooks, oral history transcripts, publications, clippings, artifacts, and correspondence documenting the history of the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) in Washington State. Much of this material was gathered by Vic and Mae Olsen, who were active in the CCC Alumni Association and in establishing a CCC interpretative center at Deception Pass State Park in Washington. Records span the period 1930 – 2001, and include some original material generated by CCC employees and pertaining to individual camps across the state. The collection also documents the activities of the CCC Alumni Association (notably the formation and work of Everett Chapter 78), and the creation of the CCC interpretive center at Deception Pass.
The collection documents the personal life and political activities of Ernest Werner Lennart, a Whatcom County farmer who also served in the Washington State Legislature from 1941 to 1967. Materials include correspondence, legislative reports, files related to state legislation, speeches and essays, newspaper clippings, and records of Lennart's farm operation.
The Collection of Miscellaneous Diaries was generated during an American Association of University Women booksale in 1999. Materials include diaries, autograph albums, and notebooks chronicling daily life for local women during the mid-twentieth century.
This is a collection of images documenting the Bloedel-Donovan Lumber Mills operations at sites including Clallam County, Skyhomish, Sekui, Arlington, Alger, Blanchard, and Bellingham.
Materials created for and in response to the March 17, 2019 "Lest We Forget" concert by Whatcom Chorale. The concert featured a premiere of Sarah Mattox's "Heart Mountain Choral Suite". The suite is from Mattox's opera, based on the diaries of World War II Japanese internment camp survivor Kara Kondo.
This is a collection of maps showing the location of fish traps in Whatcom, Skagit and San Juan Counties.
The collection contains the personal and professional papers of Blanche Saunders Tjomsland, a former Bellingham Public Library employee. Photographs in the collection document family, friends, and World War I soldiers, airplanes, and scenes from France.
The records of the Bellingham Woman’s Music Club, spanning 1917-2009, document its members’ contribution to Bellingham’s cultural development. The collection includes administrative records, financial records, yearbooks, activities records, scrapbooks, and reference materials.
This is a collection of records from a citizen's growth management watch group of Skagit County, Washington. The collection mostly comprises legal files and research materials relating to cases brought before the Western Washington Growth Management Hearings Board. 
The collection includes reports, clippings, board meeting agendas and minutes documenting the activities of the City Center Development Authority in Bellingham, Washington.
The records of the Royal Development Company document the use of material and labor at the Royal Development Company's Trinity Mine in Washinton's Chiwawa mining district. The records reflect an emphasis on the day-to-day operations of the mine and include numerous maps and plans regarding the mine and the surrounding area.
This collection comprises financial and marketing records from a family-owned shoe store in Bellingham, Washington. The Soine Shoe Store was in operation from approximately 1931-1981.
A collection of papers documenting aspects of the life, family and business interests of J.M. (John Malcolm) McIsaac (1860-1941), long-time resident of Spokane, Washington.
The Bruce Cheever railroad photographs depict railway systems in Washington state, Oregon, other states of the region, and also British Columbia from the late 19th century to the late 20th Century. The photographs depict railway cars, engines, and other rolling stock of railroads and railways throughout the Pacific Northwest as well as railway conductors, passengers, train stations, wharves and city scenes.
These photographs document the Nooksack River Bridge at Everson, Washington. They were taken in 1991 by the Washington State Department of Transportation at the request of Mr. Leonard T. Garfield of the Office of Archaeology and Historic Preservation.
The collection consists of the personal, family and business papers of early-Bellingham developer and civic leader John Joseph (J.J.) Donovan.
The collection consists of primary source material collected by self-trained historian Howard E. Buswell during his lifetime. The items included in the collection cover nearly all aspects of social and economic life of the lower Nooksack Valley and North Puget Sound areas in Washington State from the time of the first contact between white settlers and Native Americans to the early decades of the twentieth century. Buswell was also interested in the Lummi Indian culture and the collection contains a good deal of source material related to the history of this tribe.
The Association of Pacific Coast Geographers was founded in 1935 to promote geographical education, research, and knowledge. The collection documents the Association's activities.
The Gates family papers comprise articles and clippings, personal papers and photographs of a prominent Bellingham family. Collection materials were generated by businessman Cyrus and Mabel Huntoon Gates, and their children: Frances Ellen, Cyrus Kingsley, and Katherine Elizabeth.
The Druzea Club records contain textual materials which document the history of the volunteer and community service activities of this women's club as well as the active role the group played within the Washington State Federation of Women's Clubs.
The collection documents the activities and interests of radio and television broadcasting pioneer Lafayette Rogan Jones. Records span the period 1912-1983, with the bulk of materials dating from circa 1930-1970, and comprise subject files, clippings and scrapbooks, audio tapes and photographs.
The collection includes minutes, financial records, correspondence, and scrapbooks documenting the activities of Parent-Teacher Associations affiliated with Whatcom County schools.
This collection comprises materials related to Whatcom County fiscal issues and local political campaigns compiled by former Whatcom County Commissioner Larry McIntyre.
Donald MacPhail was a professor in the Department of Geography at Western Washington University. The collection includes published materials about natural resources in Whatcom and Grays Harbor Counties, and railroads throughout Washington State.
The Mothers of World War Veterans records contain meeting minutes, correspondence, newspaper clippings, etc. documenting the activities of a women's club in Bellingham, Washington from 1917 through 1958.
The collection consists of one Congressional Railroad Survey map covering the Milk River to the Columbia River.
The Eldon Barrett Papers comprise biographical and personal papers, research, writings, and photographic materials documenting the life and career of a nationally known journalist, United Press International (UPI) writer and news bureau chief.
The collection consists of inbound/outbound tonnage logs, wharf manifests, a yearbook, and statistical data from the Bellingham Municipal Dock (later Citizens Dock).
U.S. Congressional Representative Al Swift was active from 1978 to 1994, serving on many committees during his tenure. The records document important issues of the late 1970s through the mid-1990s including campaign finance reform, uniform poll closing, and environmental issues relating to clean air, nuclear waste, the spotted owl, and hydroelectric power. Swift was also considered a legislative expert on telecommunication and broadcasting issues.
The Jack Metcalf Papers document two decades of Metcalf’s political career as a Washington State Senator and as Representative for Washington State’s 2nd Congressional District. Collection materials comprise a small amount of records documenting Metcalf's activities during his final terms in the Washington State Legislature, and legislative issue files, correspondence, press files and awards from Metcalf's congressional offices in Washington D.C. and Everett, Washington.
Archie W. Shiels was both a maker and a recorder of Alaskan history and folklore, and former president of Pacific American Fisheries. His papers consist of research material, publications, personal papers, maps and charts dating from around 1790 to 1965. The documents reference a number of topics primarily related to Russian America, the Alaskan Territory, and the State of Alaska, including boundary disputes and the Bering Sea controversy regarding fur seal fishing. Other topics include Alaska Natives’ fishing rights, maritime navigation, oil, geology, and transportation throughout Alaska, Canada, and the Pacific Northwest.
This is a collection of birding field data, gathered and compiled by Clark Blake from approximately 1975-2013. The collection comprises booklets of field data, plus a small number of birding maps for areas documented by Blake, including California, Southwestern Arizona, and Western Washington.
The collection includes newspaper clippings, publications, research material and personal papers generated by Bellingham resident and Bellingham Herald writer, Nellie Browne Duff.
The H.C. Engberg photographs include an album and loose photographs depicting images of Mt. Baker, Woodstock Farm Bluff, Chuckanut Bay, and various places and people around Whatcom County and other locations.
The Washington Science Teachers Association collection contains historical information on the origins and activities of this educational association in Washington State. The materials date from the year of the association’s formation in 1959 to the last journal publication in 2004. The bulk of the contents are administrative records and publications. There are also conference and club activities materials that document the interactions of the WSTA among different communities in Washington.
This collection consists of papers generated by the Hovander family, prominent local Whatcom County pioneers who immigrated to Ferndale in the early 1900's. The head of the family, Hokan Hovander, was a well-known architect in Sweden who also did substantial architectural work for the city of Chicago after the 1871 fire. He also designed the Hovander Homestead house. Included are documents generated by researchers and Hovander/Tennant Lake park staff regarding the Hovander family. These documents were subsequently used by the park interpretive center and tour guides.
This is a collection includes assorted scrapbooks relating to the Pacific Northwest, Whatcom county, Bellingham, Lynden as well as information relating to local families and individuals. This collection also consists of twelve photo scrapbooks. Four of the scrapbooks contain photographs of fishing and canning industries in Alaska and the Puget Sound region. Three books contain scenes of WWI & WWII boats and shipbuilding. The remaining books contain images of home & family life.
Frank Teck's materials concern early European exploration and settlement in Whatcom County, as well as later Whatcom County history.
The collection contains administrative, financial and operational records, maps and drawings and photographs documenting the business interests of the Whatcom Falls Mill company and also information relating to other regional lumber mills. Personal papers and photographs further document the business and other interests of the George W. Loggie family.
The United States Power Squadrons (USPS) comprise a non-profit boating organization dedicated to promoting education about boating safety to make the experience of boating more enjoyable. District 16 of the USPS was founded in 1944 and includes the majority of boating areas in Washington State. The Bellingham Power Squadron is located in District 16. The USPS District 16 records are comprised of financial documents, membership information, annual reports, photo albums, books, magazines, posters, plaques, yacht club yearbooks, ephemera, and electronic files.
The collection comprises papers generated by Bellingham Bay and British Columbia Railroad engineer M.L. (Marc La Riviere) Stangroom, including correspondence regarding his experiences, work and travel in the Sierra Nevada Region circa 1855-1973.
These are the personal and professional papers of former Western Washington University history professor August Carl Radke. The collection includes correspondence, speeches, class notes and student files as well as research materials used by Radke in writing "Pacific American Fisheries, Inc.: A History Of A Washington State Salmon Packing Company, 1890-1966."
These scrapbooks contain newspaper clippings documenting the December 7, 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor and subsequent events through June 27, 1942. There is also a scrapbook containing clippings about Edson as well as some of her writings that were published in newspapers throughout the area.
The collection includes both early and contemporary images of faculty and administrators at Western Washington University.
Color aerial photograph of Sehome Hill in Bellingham, Washington, showing the Western Washington University campus, parts of surrounding neighborhoods, Bellingham Bay and the San Juan Islands.
Incorporated in 1890, the Fairhaven City Water and Power Company supplied water and power to Fairhaven, using Lake Padden as its source. In municipal elections held in December 1925, the city voted to buy out the company. This collection comprises one financial ledger from the company dated 1915-1923.
The Bellingham Chamber of Commerce records include clippings, committee files, and memorabilia from Chamber-sponsored events.
The North Cascades Audubon Society (NCAS) Records documents environmental interests and activities of a non-profit group based in Whatcom County, Washington.
Thirty-four charts and lithograph illustrations documenting the expeditions of Captain George Vancouver in the Pacific Northwest and South Pacific.
The collection consists of several sets of slides covering events sponsored by CPNWS.
The collection comprises an August 28, 2003 interview conducted by Midori Okazaki with Congressman Al Swift.
The collection contains several oral history interviews with members of the Whatcom County Homemade Music Society (WCHMS), conducted by former Fairhaven College student Coty Hogue. For over thirty years, the WCHMS has arranged concerts and music gatherings in the area, and provided an avenue for networking among local musicians.
The Southwestern Alaska Cannery logbooks, spanning the period 1918-1950, document the daily work accomplished by various fishing crews working for canneries in Alaska.
The Northwest Tribal Oral History Project was initially produced under the direction of Dr. Donald Eklund, Associate Professor of History at Western Washington University and Professor Jeffery Wilner also of Western Washington University. In 1999-2000, the collection was described and duplicated by Stacy Rasmus of the Lummi Language and Cultural Department as part of a joint project between the Lummi Indian Nation and the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies.
Franz X. Gabl was born in Austria in 1921. He was an avid downhill skier and mountain climber who found great satisfaction in racing and competition. After Nazi Germany annexed Austria in 1938 Gabl found himself drafted into the army and sent to the Russian Front from 1941 to 1945. After becoming a prisoner of war in a Russian-controlled camp Gabl escaped and made his way back to his hometown of St. Anton in 1945.
Having survived the harrowing experience of World War II, Gabl went on to win a Silver Medal for Downhill Skiing at the 1948 Winter Olympics in St. Moritz, Switzerland. After competing for a number of years he found a job in British Columbia as a ski instructor. Gabl then went on to become the head coach of the Canadian Olympic Ladies Ski Team in 1952 and the Men's Ski Team in 1956. After settling in Washington State, Gabl became instrumental in initiating Whatcom County's annual Ski-to-Sea race in 1973. Upon retirement Franz X. Gabl settled in Bellingham, Washington.
The Leopold Hotel in Bellingham, Washington, was originally called the Byron Hotel but was renamed in honor of Leopold Schmidt, financial backer and heaviest stockholder in the Byron Hotel.
Hands Off Washington (HOW) was a project of the Washington Citizens for Fairness (WCF) which lasted from 1993 to 1997. WCF, a state-wide organization, was a coalition of concerned citizens and organizations with the specific aim of preserving the civil rights of all Washington citizens. HOW was created to specifically oppose initiatives 608 and 610, which sought to limit the rights of Washington citizens and legalize discrimination based on sexual orientation. Quoting from the official ballot summaries:
Initiative 608, sponsored by the Equal Rights, Not Special Rights Committee. “This measure would prohibit the state of Washington and its political subdivisions from enacting or enforcing any law or policy that grants protection against discrimination or that recognizes or provides any benefit, right, standing, or privilege to homosexuals or other persons on the basis of sexual orientation. This measure also would bar common schools, their employees, volunteers, and guests from discussing or presenting homosexuality, bisexuality, transexuality, or transvestism as appropriate, positive, or healthy in any respect.” >-Initiative 608 Summary, 1994-03-29
Initiative 610, was sponsored by the Citizens Alliance of Washington. “This measure would prohibit governments from according rights, status or protection from discrimination based on homosexuality; from expending funds through governmental or educational institutions to promote, approve, or present homosexuality as a positive, healthy, or acceptable condition; from recognizing same-sex marriages and gender change alterations; and from awarding homosexuals custody of their own or other children in adoption or other child custody proceedings. The measure would grant enforcement standing to residents and non-profit entities.” >-Initiative 610 Summary, 1994-03-29
Hands Off Washington Whatcom County Coalition Council was a county branch of the state-wide HOW project. Originally, this branch encompassed only Whatcom County, but in 1995, it incorporated both Whatcom and Skagit Counties. This branch contributed to the statewide effort to oppose discriminatory initiatives and prevent them from getting on the ballot. Through community involvement, strategic planning, fundraisers, and a public education campaign, the initiatives never received the necessary signatures to appear on the ballot. Initiatives 608 and 610 reappeared a year later as initiatives 166 and 167 only to fail for a second time, like their predecessors. In 1995, HOW mobilized a campaign to put their own gay rights initiative on the ballot. However, it was shot down by legislators who claimed it was unconstitutional for citizens to vote on the civil rights of a minority. This right, opponents claimed, should be reserved for legislators. Two years later, HOW proposed another initiative, 677, which would have banned employment discrimination based on sexual orientation. This initiative, however, was voted on by Washington citizens and defeated. Unlike earlier defensive measures, this proactive approach received mixed support from the gay and lesbian community throughout the state. After this defeat, HOW ceased to be and changed their name to Equality Washington.
Prominent sports historian Dr. Jack W. Berryman began teaching at the University of Washington in 1975 as a member of the Department of Medical History and Ethics. Though Berryman retired from full-time instruction in 2015, he remains with the department as a professor emeritus. Berryman has served as historian for the American College of Sports Medicine, president of the Wild Steelhead Coalition, and is author of the 2006 book "Fly Fishing Pioneers and Legends of the Northwest."
The Morse Hardware Company is one of the oldest mercantile businesses in the Northwest region and is also one of the oldest, continually operating family owned businesses in the area. The company was founded by Robert I. Morse, who sold his property in San Francisco and used the proceeds to purchase $3000 worth of hardware, paints, glass and other supplies and sailed for Bellingham Bay in 1884, determined to find a role in the booming economy of the Pacific Northwest.
Morse located his store near the waterfront at 1039 Elk St. and established his personal residence on the second floor. Initially, the store operated solely as a retail operation, but the success of the Morse merchandizing slogan "Sell 'em Low, Send and Get More" generated a loyal and growing customer base. As the business expanded Morse entered the wholesale trade as a supplier to the burgeoning number of crossroad establishments that served the growing population in the region.
The expansion of the railroad in the 1890's facilitated the shipment of supplies and merchandise and promoted additional growth in the business. The advent of World War I generated a demand for lumber and hardware for ship-building. The company supplied this endeavor and used the proceeds to expand into the Alaska cannery business, eventually becoming the dominant supplier of hardware and other supplies to this industry.
Upon the death of Robert I. Morse in 1920, his eldest son, Cecil A. Morse, assumed the duties of the president and general manager of Morse Hardware. Cecil held the company together during the Great Depression and although most employees accepted wage and salary reductions, the company managed to avoid any layoffs. Cecil's presidency also oversaw expansion in sales and marketing with sales territories and staff growing farther afield. World War II spurred an expansion of the industrial supply division of Morse Hardware as the company furnished shipyards with the supplies necessary to sustain the war effort. The company also purchased several new buildings adjacent to the original store to house a growing inventory.
After fifty-seven years in the business, Cecil Morse died in 1958 and David C. Morse, the youngest son of the founder, became president. David continued to expand distribution markets by making new inroads in Alaska and Oregon. In 1960, the store closed its individual retail outlet and focused operations on wholesale distribution to retail stores and heavy industry. The primary customer base became lumber yards, retail outlets, and home centers in western Washington, northern Oregon and Alaska. Industrial supply sales were complimented by the movement of the Mobil Oil Company refinery and the Intalco Aluminum Corporation in Whatcom County. Georgia Pacific and the Atlantic Richfield Co. also became Morse customers. In 1963, the company became a member of PRO Hardware, Inc. PRO was a voluntary international organization of wholesalers with several distributors located in the United States. The organization assisted wholesalers in developing and distributing merchandizing, marketing and promotional programs. Morse hardware successfully implemented the program through 50 of its dealers throughout western Washington and Alaska.
In 1975, Bob Morse, grandson of the original founder assumed the presidency. The final decades of the 20th Century witnessed significant change in business focus. In 1994, Morse Hardware Co. announced that it would cease supplying wholesale hardware goods to retailer stores and lay off 25 workers. And, in November of 1998, the company announced that it would sell its industrial supply division with operations in Bellingham and Tacoma to Stellar Industrial and Construction Supply. Stellar leased the original Morse Hardware site in Bellingham and Morse operations in Tacoma changed its name to Stellar. Prior to the sale, the Morse industrial division distributed nearly 12,000 items, including hand and power tools, cutting tools and abrasives, and mill and construction supplies. The sale allowed the company to focus on its core business, Morse Steel Service, which continues in successful operation in Bellingham. The warehouse building is a large tilt up concrete structure with two 55 foot bays served by seven overhead five and ten ton bridge cranes. The operation requires specialized machinery including a 5/8 inch shear, acetylene and plasma computerized cutting equipment, automatic saws, rebar bending machine, and an iron monger to fulfill diverse customer requirements. The product base is carbon steel, cut to all shapes and sizes, and utilized by fabricators, building constructors, and heavy industry.
The original building on State Street, houses the offices of the steel business. Morse Steel service also operates a similar, but smaller steel warehouse in Wenatchee.
David T. Mason was born January 7, 1937 in Berkeley, California. His parents, Lucile (Roush) Mason and Herbert Mason were renowned botanical scientists and longtime faculty at the University of California, Berkeley and Davis. David T. Mason earned his Bachelor of Arts in biology at Reed College in 1958. In 1961, David received a Master of Arts degree in zoology at the University of California, at Davis, where he went on to complete a PhD in Limnology in 1966. Soon after receiving his doctorate, David became an associate professor of Biology at Western Washington University in Bellingham, Washington.
 David integrated teaching and research with theatrical productions and creative writing. He was actively involved in producing and directing plays, and creating musical scores for countless Friends of Fairhaven Theater productions. He became especially well known for his performance art piece, “Blue Baroque.”
As a much beloved professor at Fairhaven College, Mason taught a wide variety of inter-disciplinary classes including basic biology and ecology theory and practice. Among the very few publicly ‘out’ gay male teachers in the mid 1960s, David also created one of the first gay and lesbian studies classes in the Pacific Northwest. He was also well known for his theater courses and performances. Of particular note are his "Orpheo," "Dictionary" and "Opera" classes. David emphasized experiential learning. Classes such as the ‘Lynden Recycling Project’ helped increase awareness about the importance of recycling. Students in his gay studies class were invited to learn about gay culture by touring the local gay bar. ‘The Course of the Stream’ encouraged students to study natural habitats along rivers and streams in Whatcom County.
 During the late 1960s through 1980s, David pursued various research and activist projects, and was awarded a Fulbright fellowship in 1973, which took him to Uruguay to pursue his environmental research. The Uruguay experience culminated in a series of traveling lectures and multimedia slideshows on environmental concerns which David presented to audiences as varied as learned biology scholars and school children. His sabbaticals and research trips took him mainly to the Alaskan arctic to study the effects of crude oil on natural habitats. His major research interests ranged from limnology studies of Mono Lake in California, and Antarctica, the impacts of sewage treatment and heavy metals on natural bodies of water in the arctic and the Pacific Northwest, and habitat studies along the lower Stehekin River, to ecological effects on plants and animals along the Nooksack River and Lake Abert in Oregon. He also studied the release of chemicals in Bellingham Bay by Georgia-Pacific mill. David produced numerous articles and research papers both published and unpublished for educational presentations and traveling multi-media slideshows.
The Collection of Aerial Photographs was transferred to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies in August 2011, as part of the former holdings of the Huxley Map Library at Western Washington University. The collection had been developed over the course of the Map Library's forty-year history, during which aerial images and flight indices appear to have been acquired gradually through donation or purchase. Since the time of the initial transfer, a small number of additional images have been donated and added to the collection at the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies.
The Union Printing Company was established in 1898, incorporated in 1902, and operated until 1996 as a printing, binding and stationary business in present-day Bellingham, Washington. In 1910 the company merged with three other local printers and expanded its operations considerably. Most of its clients were local businesses and individuals, although some business was generated from Seattle, Spokane, and San Francisco. Throughout its history the Union Printing Company acquired land and assets from its clients to pay debts they owed, including those of the La Conner Mail newspaper. The Union Printing Company closed in 1996.
The Washington State Good Roads Association (WSGRA) was established in 1899 by Sam Hill to encourage development of an adequate and practical statewide highway system in Washington State. Sam Hill cultivated the support of non-profit civic groups interested in road-building and affiliated operations. The primary goal of the WSGRA was to establish a highway system created by the state legislature and operated under state management. The membership of WSGRA consisted mainly of county chapters representing local civic groups such as Chambers of Commerce and Granges. These local groups lobbied not only through WSGRA for the state-wide road network, but also in their local districts for improved road conditions. WSGRA was led by a president and was supported by an executive committee, consisting of one representative from each district. Districts were based on geographical divisions within the state. The yearly conferences involved delegates from the local organizations state-wide.
Lage Wernstedt, born in 1878 in Sweden, attended the Royal Technological School in Stockholm before immigrating to the United States in 1902. He earned a master’s degree in Forestry at Yale University and then moved to the west coast and took a job in 1908 with the United States Forest Service. For 25 years he worked as a surveyor and map-maker throughout the Pacific Northwest and Alaska. Almost single-handedly he mapped the Columbia National Forest (now the Gifford Pinchot). He also did mapping in the Willamette, Umpqua, Mt Baker, Deschutes and Chelan Forests and the Pasayten Wilderness. While engaged in his employment he became a noted photographer and mountain climber who was the first to summit many peaks in the Pacific Northwest.
In addition, Wernstedt was proficient in photogrammetry, silviculture, geography, botany, horsepacking, and parachute-assisted firefighting. He also invented aerial stereoscopic photography to produce contour maps.
Wernstedt married Adele (Dot) Wilcox in 1919 with whom he had one son, Frederick, and one daughter, Doris. The Wernstedts lived in Portland, Oregon until Lage's retirement in 1942 when they moved permanently to their summer home on Waldron Island and then Guemes Island. Wernstedt died in 1959 at the age of 81.
References: Geof Childs, “A Ridge Too Far,” Northwest Mountaineering Journal [accessed 6/18/07 http://www.mountaineers.org/nwmj/06/061_SilverStar.html ]. Lewis A. McArthur and Victor H. Flach, "We Present: Lage Wernstedt: Pioneer in Photogrammetry," Journal of Forestry, Vol. 43 (Feb. 1945).
Established by the Emergency Conservation Work Act of 1933, the Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) comprised one of the popular and far-reaching public works operations established under Franklin Roosevelt’s New Deal. Implemented during Roosevelt’s first “Hundred Days” of office, the administration envisioned the CCC as a means to tackle the growing problems of poverty and unemployment in the United States. During the 1930s and 1940s, under the directorships of Robert Fechner and James McEntee, the program engaged over three million unemployed male volunteers in public works projects designed to conserve natural resources and improve recreational and communication infrastructure.
Roosevelt’s program required unprecedented peacetime mobilization of men and labor. The scope and scale of the CCC program was such that its Advisory Council included representatives from the Departments of War, Labor, Agriculture and Interior. The CCC worked in conjunction with government bodies such as the Bureau of Animal Industry, the National and State Forest Services, National and State Parks, and the Soil Conservation Service. Although CCC camps and projects were established across the United States, many enrollees served in locations far removed from their place or state of origin. The program sent large numbers of unemployed men from depressed areas on the east coast, for example, to training and work camps in the western United States, including Washington State. The government directed the U.S. military to mobilize and train CCC members, appointing officials from the Coast Guard, Navy, Marines and most frequently the Army as commanders of CCC companies, induction and work camps.
Vic Olsen and his wife Mae Olsen were instrumental in preserving the history of the CCC and their achievements in Washington State. In Washington, host to over 200 CCC camps, Roosevelt’s “tree army” was involved in forest and soil conservation, construction of roads, bridges, telephone lines, and park and recreational facilities. CCC members built some 21,788 miles of public trails, and planted 51,057 acres of trees and seedlings.* Camps included those based at Rosario on Fidalgo Island and at Coronet Bay on Whidbey Island (the latter camp was for CCC enrollees from the East Coast of the US). Vic Olsen himself enrolled in the CCC in Everett, Washington, in April 1933, attending training at Fort Worden and Fort Casey before transfer to Camp Easton (F-32), near Cle Elum. In November 1933, Vic was relocated with his company to Camp Louella (F-60) near Sequim, Washington, in the Olympic National Forest, until his later injury and honorable discharge. During his work with the CCC, he assisted with the construction of several facilities at Deception Pass, Washington.
Vic and Mae Olsen retained an active interest in the history of the CCC, founding the Everett Chapter (Chapter #78) of the CCC Alumni Association in March 1983. The Olsens worked as campground hosts at Deception Pass State Park in Bowman Bay for many years. During their tenure at Deception Pass State Park, they were instrumental in establishing an interpretive center devoted to the history of the CCC in the region. The interpretive center was created in 1987 through CCC alumni members’ renovation of an old park bathhouse. The center was dedicated on July 16, 1988, and remains open for visitors to Deception Pass State Park.
*cited in Williams, Gerald W. Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) in the Pacific Northwest 1933-1942 (U.S. Forest Service) , Vic and Mae Olsen CCC Collection, CPNWS.
Ernest Werner Lennart was born in Sweden in 1893, emigrated to the United States in 1913, and served in the Army during World War I. He attended college upon his return from service and was married in 1920. The Lennart family eventually moved to the Pacific Northwest and settled in Everson, Washington, where Ernest worked in farming, cold storage, and the feed business.
Lennart was a member of the Freemasons, the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and the Grange and Farm Bureau. He also served on the Mt. Baker Union School District board, chaired the Whatcom County Republican Central Committee, was Commissioner of the Whatcom County Public Utility District, and represented the 41st District in Whatcom County as a representative and senator between 1941 and 1967.
Issued on February 19, 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Executive Order 9066 resulted in the forced relocation and incarceration of approximately 120,000 individuals and families of Japanese ancestry (including U.S. citizens) living in the United States. Heart Mountain War Relocation Center in Wyoming was one of ten internment camps used for imprisonment of Japanese Americans during World War II.
"Heart Mountain Choral Suite" was written by composer and mezzo-soprano Sarah Mattox, and derived from her "Heart Mountain" chamber opera. The text of these works is based upon journals written by Kara Matsushita Kondo of Yakima Valley in Washington State, who was interned at Heart Mountain with members of her family. On March 17, 2019, Whatcom Chorale performed the world premiere of Mattox's "Heart Mountain Choral Suite at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Bellingham, Washington. Soloists were Kimberly Sogioka (mezzo-soprano) with Laura Speck Camacho (violin), and Wade Dingman on piano. Deborah Brown is Conductor and Artistic Director of the Whatcom Chorale.
The Bellingham Woman’s Music Club was organized February 22, 1916. It provided a forum for its members to perform musical selections and it organized performances by its members and professionals from elsewhere for the benefit of the public. The club was composed of both active members, who performed, and associate members, who were permitted to attend the meetings. By 1924 it was federated with the Washington State Federation of Music Clubs and the National Federation of Music Clubs. The club endeavored to involve itself in the community. Some of these efforts included providing concerts, offering scholarships for membership, and a large donation of record albums to the public library with station KVOS and Western Washington College of Education.
The Royal Development Company of Leavenworth, Washington, gained its articles of incorporation on July 3rd, 1917. Trinity Mine, a subsidiary of the Royal Development Company, produced mainly copper ore mined from the Chiwawa district. The Chiwawa district includes the drainage of the Little Wenatchee, White, and Chiwawa Rivers. While the mainstay of the mine was copper silver, gold and tungsten were also found as byproducts. In 1929, about 2,500 feet of mining work was done with a workforce of 80 employees. In support of operations at the mine, the Royal Development Company operated a large and completely equipped lumber camp including a 250-500 ton mill, water power development, sawmill, and town site with 20 million feet of timber available. In early 1930 a flotation mill was erected and by 1936 the mine produced more than 10,000 tons of copper ore. However, in 1937 operations began to slow and the mine produced only 5,825 tons. As costs increased and the returns did not, operations were slowed. The company was forced into receivership in the early 1940s and the workforce was reduced to a night watchman who lived there year round. The Royal Development Company dissolved on June 28th, 1948.
J.M. (John Malcolm) McIsaac was born on Prince Edward Island in 1860, and moved to Massachusetts as a child following the death of his parents. Apprenticed as a granite cutter, McIsaac moved west in 1889 to Spokane, Washington, where he worked initially for stone contractor J.B. Bye. Following work in Oregon on the Cascade Locks (where he met and became married to Etta Mary McGrath), McIsaac returned to Spokane, where he resided until his death in 1941. Following Etta Mary's death in 1905, he raised their three surviving children. McIsaac engaged in a wide variety of business ventures, including co-establishment of the firm McKay and McIsaac, property and mining investments, and remodel work on the building later known as the Davenport Hotel. A long-term employee of the City of Spokane Street Department, McIsaac was also active in the Catholic Church and with the Knights of Columbus and the Independent Order of the Foresters.
Bruce Bissell Cheever, an avid scholar of railroad history and lore, amassed an impressive collection of photographs relating to railroads and interurban railway systems in the Pacific Northwest in a lifetime of research on the subject. After earning his Master's Degree in Social Studies from the University of Washington, Mr. Cheever became an instructor in the Economics Department at Western Washington State College of Education in 1948.
In 1951, Bruce Cheever took a leave of absence from Western to pursue his personal academic interests. Instead of returning to teaching after his leave of absence, he began a career with the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). This career change did not dilute his interest or research pursuits in railroads and interurban railway systems.
Cheever published works from the 1940s through the 1970s. His works include "Electric Railroads in Whatcom County" published in Trolley Sparks, three articles written for Traction and Models: "The Fairhaven and New Whatcom Street Railway Company," "The Bellingham-Skagit Interurban," and "The Bellingham Streetcar System" and a monograph titled "The Development of Railroads in the State of Washington: 1860 to 1948," published in 1949 by the Western Washington College of Education.
John Joseph (J.J.) Donovan (1858-1937) was born in Rumney, New Hampshire to Patrick and Julia (O'Sullivan) Donovan on September 8, 1858. J.J. attended Plymouth Normal School where he met his future wife, Clara Nichols (1858-1936). Both J.J. and Clara graduated in 1877 and passed their teaching examinations, although neither would continue teaching for very long. Clara became a piano teacher and J.J. enrolled in Worcester Polytechnic Institute's civil engineering program, where he graduated as Valedictorian in 1882.
 Shortly after graduating, J.J. was hired by the Northern Pacific Railway Company to survey, plan and eventually supervise the building of roadbeds and bridges during construction of Northern Pacific's transcontinental system. This appointment brought him west to Montana and eventually Washington State, where he worked on a number of Northern Pacific's Cascade Division projects for the next several years. By the late-1880s, J.J.'s engineering achievements were well known and his services were sought by various commercial interests then being developed on Bellingham Bay in Washington State. These attracted J.J. and Clara to Western Washington, and they arrived in Fairhaven (which later became part of Bellingham) in 1888.
 J.J. quickly became involved in real estate and other business ventures, often in partnership with other well-known area businessmen including Nelson Bennett, C.X. Larrabee, Julius H. Bloedel, and Peter Larson. Over the course of his career, J.J. served as Chief Engineer for the Fairhaven Land Company, the Skagit Coal & Transportation Company, the Fairhaven & Southern Railway Company, the Tideland Appraisers, the Blue Canyon Coal Mining Company, the Bellingham Bay & Eastern Railway Company, and the Bellingham Bay & British Columbia Railway Company. He later gave his attention to the lumber business, building and managing the Lake Whatcom Logging Company, Larson Lumber Company, and Bloedel-Donovan Lumber Mills.
 J.J. was active in civic life, serving on the Fairhaven City Council, the Board of Trustees of the Whatcom Normal School (now Western Washington University), and sitting as president of several other cultural and professional associations. He helped raise funds for the construction of St. Joseph's Hospital and Assumption Catholic Church, and publicly spoke out against the Ku Klux Klan. J.J. and Clara built a home on McKenzie Avenue in Fairhaven and had three children: Helen Donovan Craven, J.N. "Jack" Donovan, and Philip Donovan.
Howard E. Buswell was born on April 22, 1895, on his family's farm near Ferndale, Washington. In 1906, the Buswell family moved to land near Marietta, Washington on Bellingham Bay. There, except for a short period during and right after World War I, Howard Buswell lived out the remainder of his life.
Buswell's early education was acquired at various elementary and high schools in Ferndale, Marietta, and Bellingham, Washington. During World War I he served in the United States Navy, and on discharge he continued for a short time at sea in the merchant navy. He then worked briefly in the insurance industry with the Metropolitan Life Company.
Two years at the State College of Washington, now Washington State University, in the early 1920s were followed by a year at the Bellingham Normal School, now Western Washington University. After obtaining his teaching certificate at the Normal School, he began teaching elementary school in Cosmopolis, Washington in Grays Harbor County. Poor health, however, cut short his career in education and he was forced to retire.
For the remaining forty or so years of his life, he lived on the family farm, raising chickens and processing cider in association with his brother, Ray. It was during these years that he began his research into local history, undertaking many "projects", as he called them. These "projects" took him to libraries, museums, and court houses across the country, and led to the voluminous correspondence with archivists and librarians in many of the major repositories in the United States and several in Canada as well. He intended to write a local history book on Marietta and the nearby Lummi Reservation, however, he was still gathering materials at the time of his death in 1965 and his book was never completed.
Founded in 1935 by a gathering of geographers including graduate students and faculty from universities, normal schools, and junior colleges, the Association of Pacific Coast Geographers has a long and rich history promoting geographical education, research, and knowledge. Since 1952 it has also been the Pacific Coast Regional Division of the Association of American Geographers, serving AK, AZ, CA, HI, ID, NV, OR, WA, BC, and YT.
A prominent Bellingham businessman and civic figure, Cyrus Gates moved from Vermont to Fairhaven, Washington in 1890 to work as private secretary for C.X. Larrabee. Gates became actively involved in various Larrabee business enterprises, holding part-ownership in the Roslyn-Cascade Coal Company, and serving as Secretary-Treasurer of the Pacific Realty Company until his death on January 13, 1927. Gates donated large amounts of time, money and land to civic and commercial development of the Fairhaven District and Chuckanut Drive. He was especially interested in the development of the city park system. Gates was survived by his wife Mabel Huntoon Gates and their three children: Frances Ellen, Cyrus Kingsley and Katherine Elizabeth. In 2004, the City of Bellingham purchased Woodstock Farm, the Gates’ family home along Chuckanut Bay, as a city park.
The Druzea Club was formed in Bellingham, Washington in 1937 in the home of Mrs. Maude Fischer with the express purpose of facilitating mental improvement and social enjoyment for its members. In 1938 the club joined the Washington State Federation of Women’s Clubs and enjoyed a long association with this umbrella organization.
Druzea is a Russian word meaning ‘friendship’ which was to be the root of the Druzea Club’s purpose in the local and regional communities. The club was active in a number of service projects which included aiding needy families during the holidays, collecting magazines for monthly drop-off at the Juvenile Detention quarters of the Court House, sponsoring a rural school through the Save the Children Federation, assisting in the restoration of the Whatcom Museum as well as engaging in war service projects during World War II.
Library service was also one of the main focuses of the Druzea Club, which took an active role in the formation of Friends of the Bellingham Public Library in October 1952. The club was also involved in the establishment of a library at Pt. Roberts by furnishing books and magazines to the local community.
The Druzea Club was active as well in supporting State and General Federation of Women’s Clubs projects and also gave financial assistance to the Heart, Cancer, and Polio funds, the local food bank, the Indian Youth Mission, the Home for Abused Women and the Salvation Army. The club also acted as a leadership training ground in that five of its members eventually became Federation of Women’s Clubs district presidents, three were general chairman to the state convention when it was held in Bellingham, and several members went on to become state officers and department chairs. This connection with the Federation was cherished by club members and fortified their resolve to continue actively supporting their local and regional communities. The club celebrated its fiftieth anniversary in 1987 and has since disbanded.
Born in Memphis Tennessee on October 11, 1895, Lafayette Rogan Jones moved with his parents, Francis Goodbar Jones and Mary Rogan Jones to Boston in 1901, and then to Aberdeen, Washington in 1906. He attended private schools in Boston, public schools in Aberdeen and spent one year at Columbia University where he studied business. Jones lived in Aberdeen intermittently until 1930. Jones acquired his first radio station, KXRO, in Aberdeen, Washington in 1928, and purchased KVOS in Bellingham, Washington the following year. In addition to these stations, Jones owned KPQ radio in Wenatchee and KPCB in Seattle.
A pioneer in his field, Jones often generated conflict through his attempts to expand the interests and role of radio broadcasters and attract larger audiences. The legal case KVOS v Associated Press (circa 1934-1936) comprised one of the most noteworthy legal battles of his career. Responding to refusals by the Associated Press, the United Press, and the International News Service to sell news copy to radio stations, Jones and KVOS rewrote and then broadcast information found in newspapers. Accusing Jones of “news piracy”, local newspapers such as the Bellingham Herald and national news organizations including the Associated Press filed suit against KVOS. In 1936, the US Supreme Court decided in favor of KVOS, allowing for greater access by radio broadcasters to news sources (including sporting events), and paving the way towards the sale of information by news organizations to radio.
During the 1950s, Jones attracted further controversy through his creation of International Good Music (IGM), a centralized service providing recorded music and radio shows for broadcast across the world. In 1964, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) sued IGM and recipient stations, arguing that IGM broadcast music without their permission or that of the artists. The case was decided in favor of the IGM and other defendants. Having established himself in radio, Jones soon expanded his professional interests to include television, creating one of the first commercial cable systems in Bellingham, Washington. His first TV station, KVOS-TV, aired its first broadcast on May 23, 1953. Jones also founded cable television station, KPQ-CA in Wenatchee in 1953, before selling the station the following year. The British Columbia company Wometco eventually bought KVOS in 1962. Rogan Jones died on 27 April, 1972 in Bellingham, Washington.
Donald MacPhail was a professor in the Department of Geography at Western Washington University.
Founded November 10, 1917 in Bellingham Washington as an auxiliary to the National League for Woman's Service, the club was first called the Mothers Club of Men in Service. Objectives were to maintain true allegiance to the government of the United States, to inculcate lessons in patriotism and love of country among children and in the community and encourage the spread of universal liberty and equal rights for all. (Source: Bellingham Herald, "World War I Mothers' Club members dwindle," 1971 May 30.)
Through the years the club had a number of names, including Mother of Men in Service (1917-1919), American Mothers of World War Veterans (1919-1920), Mothers of World War Veterans (1920-post WWII?), Mothers Club of the World War Veterans No. 1 and Mothers of World War Veterans (1956-1958).
The club initiated the foundation of Bellingham’s Memorial Park, and also raised money to donate the trees and plaques commemorating soldiers lost in World War I. During World War II members of the group were active volunteers with the Red Cross. The club continued to meet weekly even in times of peace because of the close friendships that they held. Members would sometimes even meeting in the homes of women who could not venture outside. The Mothers of World War Veterans disbanded in 1958.
Eldon Barrett (1921-2009) was a nationally known journalist, United Press International (UPI) reporter and news bureau chief. Born in Nampa, Idaho, Barrett’s journalism career began during his teenage years at Olympia High School in Washington State, where he was a writer and editor of the school newspaper. He continued his writing at St. Martin’s College in Lacey, Washington, before enlisting in the Merchant Marine during World War II. After the war, Barrett began working for UPI news agency, initially in Salem, Oregon, and then in Seattle, Washington. In 1980, following retirement from UPI, Barrett and his wife Catherine (Ayer) Barrett moved to Bellingham, Washington, where he edited "Going Strong," a >Bellingham Herald column on the topic of senior citizens, and continued to research and publish travel-related writing.
Eldon Barrett covered myriad issues and events during his career in journalism, including presidential visits to Seattle, sporting events, nuclear bomb testing in Alaska and Washington State legislative sessions. He was an avid and skilled photographer, documenting much of his travel and research interests through images as well as writing.
Sources: Eldon Barrett Papers and obituary, published 2009.
Al Swift was born in Tacoma, Washington on September 12, 1935, where he later graduated from Lincoln High School. Swift attended Whitman College in Walla Walla from 1953 to 1955, then graduated in 1957 with a B.A. in Journalism from Central Washington University in Ellensburg. While attending college, Swift began his career in broadcasting by working for local radio stations. After graduation, he joined KVOS Television and Radio in Bellingham, Washington. Swift was promoted to program director of KVOS in 1962.
In 1965, Swift joined Congressman Lloyd Meeds' (D-WA) staff as his first administrative assistant where he remained for the next five years. In 1969, Swift returned to KVOS as news and public affairs director. While at KVOS, he produced many programs on state and local issues and, in the process, won many awards, including the prestigious Emmy award. While in Bellingham, Swift remained active in community affairs. In the early 1970s he played a key roll in rewriting Bellingham's 1906 city charter. By 1975 he had became chairman of a citizen's advisory committee on Bellingham schools and was appointed by Mayor Ken Hertz to the Bellingham Housing Authority.
In 1977 Swift returned to Representative Meeds' staff as his top aide. When Meeds decided to retire, Swift resigned from his position to begin his own campaign for Washington's 2nd Congressional District. Throughout the 1978 campaign Swift was considered the underdog and his first hurdle was to gain the State Democratic Party nomination. Senator Henry Jackson's longtime press secretary, Brian Corcoran, was considered a "shoe-in" for the nomination yet Swift came from far behind to defeat Corcoran in the primary election by 3,881 votes. His next hurdle was Republican John Nance Garner, who nearly ousted Meeds in 1976. Garner spent extensively on his campaign against Swift, but Swift attacked Garner's heavy spending which turned Garner's monetary advantage into a liability. The outcome was a 51 percent victory for Swift.
Once elected to Congress it did not take Swift long to become active. He was a protegé of Senator Warren G. Magnuson, and it was through Magnuson's influence that Swift was appointed to the Energy and Commerce Committee in his freshman term. During his congressional career he also chaired the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Transportation and Hazardous Materials and the Elections Subcommittee. Membership on these key committees allowed Swift to play a major role in some of the most important issues that arose during his tenure, including broadcast deregulation, telecommunications, uniform polling results, the Northwest Power Bill, the Motor Voter Law, campaign finance reform, and the spotted owl controversy.
Swift was described by Alan Ehrenharlt of "Congressional Quarterly" in 1986's Politics in America as "patient, diligent, and disdainful of publicity, he is one of the most impressive legislators to arrive in Congress in recent years." This kind of sentiment and his reputation for being the legislative expert on broadcasting and telecommunication issues led to the naming of Swift as one of the twelve most underrated members of Congress in 1985.
Swift was first elected in 1978 and served 8 successive terms until 1994 when he chose not to run for reelection.
Born in Marysville, Washington in 1927, Jack Metcalf served in the US military and as a boat skipper with the Fish and Wildlife Service during the 1940s. He graduated from Pacific Lutheran University with a BA and BEd. in 1951, and later pursued graduate studies in history and economics, earning an MA at the University of Washington in 1966. Metcalf worked as a high school math and history teacher in Everett, Washington for nearly thirty years.
Metcalf began his political career in state government, serving as a Republican member of the Washington State House of Representatives (1961-1964) and later the Washington State Senate (1967-1975 and 1981-1993), where he chaired the Senate Environmental and Natural Resources Committee between 1988 and 1992. In 1994, as the Republican Party gained control of the U.S. House of Representatives, Metcalf was elected representative for Washington State's 2nd Congressional District.
Often described as a political conservative, Metcalf was concerned with a wide range of legislative issues. He served as a member of the House Banking, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Science Committees, and on subcommittees for Ground Transportation, Aviation, Financial Institutions and International Monetary Policy. As a politician and legislator, Metcalf focused much of his attention on regionally significant issues including Puget Sound transportation development, natural resource and fisheries management, and environmental protection. In 1997, Metcalf and U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Washington) established the Northwest Straits Advisory Commission, a bipartisan body intended to conserve marine life in Northwest Washington. Metcalf also led an unsuccessful challenge to the resumption of whaling by the Makah Indian Tribe in Neah Bay, Washington.
A long-time advocate for the US military and military personnel, Metcalf pursued investigations into the origins of Gulf War Illnesses, sought funding to assist military families in Washington State, and in 1997 introduced the Robert Stodola Veterans Assistance Act to increase funding for homeless veterans’ programs. As chair of the Republican Housing Opportunity Caucus, Metcalf supported the Low Income Housing Tax credit program to encourage development of affordable homes.
An outspoken supporter of congressional term limits, Metcalf retired from the House of Representatives in 2000 after serving three terms. He lived in Langley on Whidbey Island, Washington until his death in March of 2007.
Archie W. (Archibald Williamson) Shiels was born May 26, 1878, in Edinburgh, Scotland, son to Thomas and Mary Hannah Shiels. He came to the United States in 1893, originally working as a purser on a steamship. Between 1893 and 1916, Shiels became closely involved with early railroad construction in Alaska. As chief of staff to railroad contractor Michael James (M.J.) Heney, Shiels supervised the construction of a railroad line between Skagway, Alaska and White Horse in Canada’s Yukon Territory. He later became involved in the construction of the Copper River and North Western Railroad, which traveled nearly 200 miles from Cordova in Southeastern Alaska to the interior of the state. Shiels joined the Pacific American Fisheries in 1916, and served as President of the company from 1930-1946. He retired from business in 1950.
Shiels had an avid interest in Russian America and Alaska. He collected a vast amount of informational material, from which he researched and wrote many historical manuscripts, books, and speeches.
Shiels died in Bellingham in September of 1974. He was ninety-six years old.
Sources: >Bellingham Herald, “Deaths and Funerals: Archie Shiels,” 1974 September 6. Center for Pacific Northwest Studies, original biographical note, circa 1957 (available in-house at the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies). Koert, Dorothy and Galen Biery. Looking Back – The Collectors Edition: Memories of Whatcom County/Bellingham. Bellingham, WA: Grandpa’s Attic (2003).
On August 8, 1899, H.C. (Henry Christian) Engberg married Mary Davenport. The Engbergs were prominent members of the Bellingham (Wash.) community, participating in a number of social organizations including the Twentieth Century Club, the Bellingham Woman’s Music Club, and the YWCA. Their house was located at 531 N. Garden Street.
Often referred to as Madame Davenport-Engberg, Mary was an accomplished violinist and symphony conductor. In addition to organizing the eighty-five piece Davenport Engberg Orchestra in Bellingham in 1914, she also directed the sixty-five piece Seattle Symphony Orchestra from 1921-1924.
H.C. Engberg founded the Engberg Pharmacy in Bellingham in 1890. The store was originally located in Fairhaven and then moved to 139 W. Holly Street at the intersection of Holly and State Streets. In 1912 the Engberg Pharmacy published Easton’s recreational map of Mt. Baker (copy available in the CPNWS Pamphlet Collection). Engberg was also an avid outdoorsman, participating in and photographing multiple expeditions into the Mt. Baker wilderness. According to Lottie Roeder Roth’s History of Whatcom County, Engberg was responsible for naming Bastile and No Name Glaciers, as well as Heliotrope Ridge and Creek.
Sources: Bellingham Business Journal. Koert, Dorothy and Galen Biery. Looking Back. Lynden, Wash.: Lynden Tribune, 1980. Roth, Lottie Roeder, ed. History of Whatcom County. Chicago: Pioneer Historical Pub. Co., 1926. Wahl, Ralph – description provided upon donation. Wikipedia – Mary Davenport-Engberg entry last accessed April 12, 2012 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Davenport_Engberg).
The Washington Science Teachers Association formed in 1959 at Jones Hall, College of Puget Sound (now U.P.S.) with the intent of promoting better science education programs in the state of Washington. The WSTA is governed by a written constitution and administered through an elected executive board. In 1961, the WSTA established a long standing collaboration with the National Science Teachers Association.
In 1961, the WSTA developed in-service days for teachers and administrators in the state of Washington to share their teaching innovations. In addition to hosting workshops for science teachers, the WSTA has also granted a number of outstanding science “teacher of the year” awards to recognize dedication and creativity in teachers for K-12 schools. The WSTA also hosts an annual Science and Engineering Contest in the state of Washington for K-12 students.
In 1972, the WSTA established a professional journal. The content and issue of the WSTA journal is strictly controlled by teachers, and serves as a venue for sharing experiments, teaching hints, and opinions. The journal also discusses relevant science issues, and announces up and coming conferences and other events for science teachers.
Hokan (Hovander) Olsson was born on December 6, 1841, near Malmo, Sweden. Hokan's parents, Ola Persson and Else Nilsdatter, were semi-prosperous tenant farmers who struggled to support Hokan and his eight siblings, including Hokan's twin brother Christian. In 19th Century Sweden, tenant farming was a particularly difficult livelihood for most families. Only 10% of Sweden's land was arable and suitable for farming. In addition, Swedish laws stipulated that landowners must maintain their land parcels as a unit and were prohibited from dividing lands among heirs. As a result, many younger sons, such as Hokan, chose to migrate to large cities like Stockholm in search of more viable vocational prospects. Once in Stockholm, Hokan became an apprentice bricklayer by day and studied architecture in the evening. Sometime during the 1860s, Hokan changed his surname from Olsson to Hafvander (later Havander or Hovander). This name change probably reflected Hokan's desire to facilitate his architectural career by choosing a more distinctive name than the common "Olsson."
In 1865, Hokan and his brother Christian left Sweden and travelled first to Australia and New Zealand and then to the United States, where they established separate homesteads in Kansas. Christian chose to remain in Kansas, but Hokan continued his travels in the U.S., eventually migrating to Chicago. While in Chicago, Hokan returned to his chosen profession of architecture. In the wake of the devastating fire of 1871, he found ample opportunity to hone his architectural skills as he helped to rebuild the city. He also worked along the West Coast in San Francisco, Portland, and Seattle.
In 1879, He returned to Sweden and married Louisa Leontine Johandatter Lof and settled into family life and an architectural career. Although he was not officially licensed as an architect in Sweden, this period was particularly prolific for Hokan, and he completed many building and design projects during this time. Hokan's work in Sweden culminated with the creation of his most famous work, the "Mansion," a large residential building in Stockholm created in the Beaux Arts style.
In 1885, Hokan succumbed to an episode of tuberculosis and was advised to spend some time in a warmer climate. Hokan, Leontine and their children, Hugo, Elsa and Otis embarked on a world cruise, traveling from Sweden to Australia and finally to San Francisco. In California, Elsa met her future husband, Karl Stromee. The Stromees and other transplanted Swedes convinced the Hovanders that immigration to the U.S. would be beneficial to both Hokan's health and the future of the children. After returning to Sweden and selling the "Mansion", the Hovander family set sail for New Zealand in 1896. By then, the family had grown to include three more children: Angelo, Charles and Ada.
The Hovander family reached Seattle by 1897 but chose not to stay, complaining of noise and price inflation caused by Gold Rush fever. Instead, the family migrated north to Whatcom County. The Hovanders paid Betsey Nielson $4000 in gold coin for 60 acres near Ferndale, which included two small cabins, some farm implements, and a few livestock. In 1899, the last Hovander child, Vera, was born in one of the cabins. Hokan designed a house and barn based on traditional Scandinavian architectural features but which also incorporated building techniques learned while working in the U.S. These buildings still stand on the property today.
Hokan died in 1915 of chronic myocarditis, fifteen years after work on the house was completed. Leontine died in 1936, as a result of complications from diabetes. All the children married, except for Otis. Otis, a friendly and colorful local personality with wide and varied interests, is well represented in the family papers. He was an avid stamp collector and maintained a large correspondence with fellow collectors. Otis loved antique cars and belonged to a vintage car club. He was a member of the Knights of Pythias and was also interested in politics and automobile safety issues. Otis also enjoyed playing musical instruments and once requested an audition with the Original Amateur Hour in New York City. Otis shared the Hovander House with widowed sister Elsa from 1946 until her death in 1961. Otis remained in the house until 1969, when he moved into the Lynden Rest home where he resided until his death in 1979.
The papers of Elsa Hovander Stromee are also well represented in this collection. Elsa's husband Karl owned and ran the Economy Print Shop in San Bernardino, California, which employed Japanese and Chinese Americans and nationals. Karl died in 1946, after which Elsa moved back to Whatcom County to live with Otis.
The Whatcom County Parks and Recreation Board purchased the Hovander property for $60,000 in 1969. Upon acquisition, the Parks Department repainted and refurbished the buildings and continues to maintain the house today. A small working farmyard adjacent to the house was restocked with typical farm animals. Farm implements were collected from many different sources and displayed in the barn along with identifying labels. The house and grounds are open to visitors.
Frank Teck was a local reporter and historian who wrote many articles related to Whatcom County's history and development. Teck was born in Northfield, Minnesota in 1869, attended Morehead College, and then in 1890 headed west eventually making his way to Whatcom County. He made a name for himself as a writer once a series of articles he wrote for Sunset magazine were published. Over his lifetime he wrote for the Seattle Post-intelligencer, Seattle Star, Seattle Times, Union Record, Bellingham American, Herald (Fairhaven), Daily Reveille (Whatcom), Bellingham Evening News, and Anacortes News. He also purchased and ran the Blade newspaper based in Whatcom. In 1899 he published a book of poems entitled Under Western Skies. He died in 1933.
Whatcom Falls Mill Company was located on Bellingham Bay, in the northwestern corner of Washington State. The mill, located on Whatcom Creek in Bellingham, was originally the Washington Colony Mill, positioned on a site established by Henry Roeder and J.E. Peabody in 1853. In 1895, George W. Loggie, along with his brother James A. Loggie, rented the Washington Colony Mill, creating the Whatcom Falls Mill Company.
George W. Loggie and Samuel J. Knight filed papers for incorporation of Whatcom Falls Mill Company 28 October 1895. The mill specialized in Western Red Cedar and manufactured a variety of products including bevel siding, sash and doors, and lumber. A new plant, built in 1903 at the bottom of “G” Street, eventually produced only red cedar lumber and shingles. The company shipped its product all over the world by rail and water.
Loggie formed a partnership with Pat McCoy of Seattle, who had large timber holdings in the Kulshan district. The McCoy-Loggie Timber Company, formed in 1910, had McCoy as its President with Loggie as Secretary and Treasurer. The McCoy-Loggie Timber Company supplied the Whatcom Falls Mill with lumber until the Timber Company dissolved in 1926.
The management of the mill was largely a family affair. G.W. Loggie was President until his death in 1922. Upon his death, Loggie’s brother, James, assumed the roll until 1933. D.H. Lowery, son-in-law of George, became President in 1933, serving until the company filed dissolution papers on June 22, 1940.
George W. Loggie was born 22 June 1851 near Loggieville, New Brunswick, Canada. In 1879, he came out west and began an extensive career in the logging business, working at mills along the Puget Sound as well as in Oregon. Oregon mills were located in cities such as Portland and Coos Bay, where he spent time as general manager for the large Southern Oregon Company. Washington mills include the Puget Sound Mill Company at Utsaladdy and Port Gamble. Loggie eventually became superintendent of the Utsaladdy plant. He also worked in Seattle, and established mills in Snohomish and Port Angeles in 1893. 
The United States Power Squadrons (USPS) comprise a non-profit boating organization dedicated to promoting education about boating safety to make the experience of boating more enjoyable. USPS activities include teaching boating, seamanship, and engine maintenance courses, and conducting district meetings, educational seminars, and seasonal conferences.
The USPS is made up of thirty-three districts containing a total of four hundred and fifty squadrons across the United States. District 16 of the USPS was founded in 1944, and includes seventeen squadrons representing the majority of boating areas in Washington State. The Bellingham Power Squadron is located in District 16.
References:
Hearsey, Herbert R. >District 16 United States Power Squadron: Fifty Years of Growth 1944-1994 50th Anniversary. Bellingham, WA: Western Washington University Printing and Publishing Services, 1995.
The United States Power Squadrons website, accessed February 1, 2010, http://www.usps.org/newpublic2/about.html.
The United States Power Squadrons District 16 website, accessed February 1, 2010, http://www.usps.org/d16/.
M. L. (Marc La Riviere) Stangroom was born in 1832 in England. After attending school in Switzerland, he relocated back to England where he worked for the North Staffordshire Railway. Following a brief stay in India, Stangroom immigrated to the United States, landing initially in New York. Stangroom then traveled to California and Nevada where he engaged in mining speculation and railroad surveying. In 1888, at the request of railroad magnate Pierre Cornwall, Stangroom moved to Bellingham, Washington to assist in building the Bellingham Bay and British Columbia railway. In 1901 he was appointed State Supervising Engineer in Seattle. Stangroom died in 1913 at the age of 81.
Incorporated in 1890, the Fairhaven City Water and Power Company supplied water and power to Fairhaven, Washington, using Lake Padden as its source. In municipal elections held in December 1925, the city voted to buy out the company.
The North Cascades Audubon Society (NCAS) was founded in 1970 in Whatcom County, Washington, as the local branch of the National Audubon Society. The organization is dedicated to protecting and promoting awareness of wildlife, habitat and environment. NCAS is heavily involved in environmental advocacy through scientific research, environmental education, conservation and stewardship activities. In addition to their advocacy and educational work, the organization publishes 'The Avalanche,' a newsletter discussing natural history and local environmental issues.
Captain George Vancouver (1757-1798) was a member of the second British exploratory voyage led by Captain James Cook (1828-1779), and was also aboard the Discovery, which accompanied the Resolution on Cook’s third voyage. In 1791 Vancouver was given command of the ship the Discovery (named in honor of Cook) to chart the Pacific Northwest coast and to help resolve the crisis precipitated by John Meares at Nootka. He remained on the coast or in the Sandwich Islands for three seasons until he sailed back to England 1795.
Al Swift represented Washington State's second congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from 1978-1994.
Founded in Bellingham, Washington in the mid-1970s, the Whatcom County Homemade Music Society and its members have been active participants in the folk music scene in Bellingham, arranging concerts and music gatherings in the area, and providing an avenue for networking among local musicians. The group meets on a weekly/bi-weekly basis. Traditionally, these meetings have been held at the Roeder Home.
The Squaw Harbor Cannery was located on Unga Island, one of the islands that composes the Aleutian Islands in Alaska. It was one of the canneries acquired by Pacific American Fisheries (PAF) in 1917 when demand for salmon increased during World War I.
Henry Loofs, who worked for the Alitak Cannery, maintained a 1941 logbook of fishing activities around Olga Bay, near Kodiak Island. Alitak Cannery was also purchased by PAF in 1935. The Petersburg Cannery was located on Mitkof Island south of Juneau and was also purchased in 1935 by PAF.
Franz X. Gabl donated the materials to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies in May of 2002.
Arrangements were conducted via David C. Morse who formally donated the records on August 26, 1996.
Collection contents were developed by Huxley Map Library prior to the transfer of the collection to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies in August 2011.
Textual materials were transferred by Paul Opryzek and formally donated by Sherrie Kahn on behalf of the Whatcom Chorale in July 2019. The audio-visual recording of the 2019-03-17 concert was donated by Steve Johnson (videographer) in August 2019.
Jon Soine donated the collection to the Center for Pacific Northest Studies in 2008.
Collection formally donated by Barbara Sheerer Morris in 2017.
The records were shipped directly to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies from Swift's offices in Washington, D.C. upon the conclusion of his congressional career in 1998.
S. Lewis Moore, head of Jack Metcalf’s district office in Everett,
Washington, transferred the collection to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies in 2001.
Robert Christman donated the Washington Science Teachers Association Records to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies in May 2004.
The Whatcom County Parks and Recreation Board purchased the Hovander farm in 1969 and gained possession of the Hovander Family Papers.
The scrapbooks in the collection were a gift from the Whatcom County Museum in 1987. They originate from numerous sources. Known donors include Jack D. Mullin, Mrs. Albin C. Johnson, Linda Countryman, Mrs. Roland Richards, Gretchen H. Guerton, Bennett Sandberg, Mary Hickey, Mr. and Mrs. H.R. Frazier, and Mrs. George Siemons.
The exact provenance of these records is unknown.
The charts and lithographs described in this guide were part of a larger selection of rare books collected by Dorothy Stimson Bullitt (1892-1989) and donated to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies by her daughters, Priscilla Collins and Harriet Bullitt, in 1992. Bullitt, founder of the founder of the King Broadcasting Company, is known for her pioneering work in radio and television, as well as involvement in civic matters and the arts. The original donation to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies included a range of bound rare books and accounts of early eighteenth century exploration. The majority of these books have now been transferred to Western Libraries Special Collections and are part of its rare book collection. At least some of the remaining, oversize charts and lithographs are believed once to have been bound together.
Donated by Coty Hogue in January 2009.
Galen Biery donated the logbooks to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies.
The Northwest Tribal Oral History interviews contains information pertaining to a wide variety of Native American tribes and peoples in Washington State and Idaho. The interviews reflect perspectives of tribe members as well as elders. The majority of these interviews are conducted with both members and elders of the Lummi and the Nooksack tribes. Other interviewees include members and elders from the Chinook, Chehalis, Cowlitz, Pachenant, Quinault, Colville, Sinkiuse, and Swinomish tribes. There is also an interview with a member of the Nez Perce Tribe. Some topics discussed in these interviews and recordings include Native American languages and word etymologies, religion, education, genealogy, songs, hunting and fishing as well as politics. Also contained within the collection are recordings of the Northwest Indians Executive Council meetings and conferences held in Spokane, WA in 1973.
Although the material in Northwest Tribal Oral History interviews span from 1963-1973, the majority of it dates from 1973. Eighteen interviews out of the fifty four audio tapes have transcriptions. Due to the age of the audio cassette recordings, some tapes are completely inaudible.
Tape, 1, Side One: Vern Dunning speaks about origin and composition of Chinook jargon and counts in Chinook Jargon. Dunning speaks about varieties of language among the tribes along the Columbia and North Pacific Coast that made a trade or universally understood language (pidgin) necessary. Dunning goes over vocabulary in Chinook jargon. "King George Man" is an Englishman. Gives names for coat and canoe. [The quality of the tape is not so good as to be able to discern the pronunciation of the Chinook Jargon words absolutely.] Tum-tum meaning the beat of the heart - Tum River. Memaloose - to die, Memaloose Island. Hýoo - big, huge, a lot. Skookum, strong. Chickema, money. Dunning constructs sentences in Chinook Jargon. Chook, grandma, grandpa. Chuck, water. Dunning gives explanation of some of the words, how they degraded from their original English, French or Indian pronunciation. Ickta, what. Iskum, to get. Dunning notes the difference between the English pronunciation of Chinook Jargon and the Indian pronunciation where the "k" sound is replaced by the "g" sound by the Indians that Dunning has spoken with. Klootchman, wife, woman. Kootman, mare. Kuntucks, to understand, knowledge, recognize or believe. Piljob, the devil. Mosh, to leave, turn out, sail, throw away, quit, vanish, cast, dash, desert, dispatch, dismiss, detach, drop, apply, expel, exterminate, forsake, heave, insert, relinquish, remit, sling, toss, transmit etc. Speaks the contextual nature of Chinook Jargon. Mumook, to work. Nesatchi, bad, evil. Moose-moose, horned cattle. Mowwich, deer. Moosum, to sleep. Muck-a-muck, food. Mika, second person, you. Dunning speaks about learning Chinook Jargon from the Indian children around his home as a child fishing in the Chehalis River.
Tape 1, Side Two:Tillicum, friend. Ticook, white. Tum-water, waterfall. Tyee, chief. Tenas, small. Wa-wa, speak or talk. Dunning speaks about the guttural nature of Chinook Jargon. Dunning speaks about being born in Quincy, Michigan. Dunning speaks about the railway system and traveling from Michigan by train to the Northwest. Interview concludes noting that Vern Dunning was reading through the book Chinook: A History and Dictionary, by Edward Harper Thomas, and examining a "birds-eye" picture of Centralia in 1884.
Tape 2, Side One [Tape speed varies]: Silas Heck & Vern Dunning speak about the use of Chinook Jargon. Heck speaks about fur trading. Silas Heck speaks of the origination of the Chinook Jargon with the Hudson's Bay company. [Chinook Jargon was not a product of the contact brought about through the fur trade, it existed among the tribes along the Columbia and Coast who did not share a common dialect. The fur trade exacerbated its use.] Silas Heck speaks about his father trapping for beaver. Heck recalls his father living with the Ford family. Heck speaks about how Lizzie Ford and his father produced a child, with the last name Pickner, Reilly Pickner. Heck speaks about how Reilly Pickner and Pickner's family were not recognized by anyone as part Indian. Heck speaks about gathering camas and cedar. Dunning and Heck recall Ford's log house. Heck recalls Governor Stevens holding council at Ford's house to have the treaty read and interpreted. Dunning and Heck speak about Ford's cemetery. Heck speaks about being a Shaker, of the John Slocum denomination. Heck tells the story of John Slocum's death and resurrection, which marked the foundation of the Shaker religion. Heck speaks about what happens after death. Heck speaks about Wickasham's recollection of life after death. Heck speaks about being chief of police on the reservation. Heck continues to recount John Slocum's travels after death. Heck speaks about Slocum's promise of a new medicine for the people. Heck recounts how the coming of the medicine that makes up the "shaking" part of the church. Heck speaks about his living relations. Dunning speaks about living in Centralia. Heck speaks about Billy Mills and the Mills family who could speak the Chehalis language. Heck speaks about the importance of camas for his people, and who camas was utilized by the white people also. [Tape goes out, portion of interview lost]. Heck speaks about the preparation of camas. Heck speaks about hunting elk, most opportune times etc. Heck speaks about the medicine man of the early times, which worked as healers as well as seers.
Tape 2, Side Two: Blank for about two minutes. Heck speaks about the coming of the white people as foreseen by the medicine men of the early days, who brought domestication. [Tape goes out] Heck continues speaking about animal domestication. Heck speaks about his religious beliefs. Integration of the teachings of Jesus Christ into Native American spiritual life. Heck gives his Indian name in the Chehalis language, Ts'e may'uks. Heck gives his age as 91. Heck discusses his views of Native American origin in North America; he speaks of his people being the people of the lost tribe of Israel. Heck speaks about playing the bone game. [Tape cuts out]
Tape 3, Side One: Tape begins with introduction, by Randy Lewis of Western Washington University. He is taping his travels to the Pachenant Indian Reserve, which is a fishing village town of Port Rentview, on the West Coast side of Vancouver Island. The entire tape is a narrative by Randy Lewis, as he acknowledges that the Pachenant are hostile to outsiders. He notes that to interview a tribal member requires a permission process approved only through the Tribal Council. Lewis speaks about the betrayal of the early anthropologists and sociologists that have made the Pechenant cautious about trusting outside researchers. Lewis will discuss the conversation he had with Chief Art Jones of the Pachenant people. Lewis speaks about visiting the past acting Chief, Charlie Jones. Lewis attests to his Indian heritage. Lewis describes Chief Art Jones, his character and appearance, and role as a traditional chief. Lewis discusses the history of the Pachenant people, their migrations in the early days and their relations among the other Native groups. Lewis recounts Chief Art Jones talking about the education of his people (which he refers to as his children). Lewis recounts Chief Art Jones speaking about the building reforms on the reserve. Lewis describes Chief Art Jones' concern for identify loss among his people due to Western education and influences. Lewis describes revitalization projects underway on the reserve. Lewis discusses the housing project on the Pachenant reserve. Lewis speaks about the income of the Pachenant people, which is almost entirely dependent on the lumber industry. Lewis relates Chief Art Jones' reasons why the Pachenant do not salmon fish. The main reasons are the expense of the equipment needed to be competitive in the commercial fish market and the governmental restrictions by the Canadian government on salmon retailing and harvesting by the Indians.
Tape 3, Side Two: Lewis continues to speak about the income of the Pachenant. Lewis discusses the relations between the Pachenant and the white community at Port Rentview. Lewis relates the story of a murder of a young Pachenant Indian man by a white man of Port Rentview. This murder and the overall prejudice of the white community has made relations hostile. Lewis attests to the mending of relations between the Pachenant and the white community by Chief Art Jones. Lewis speaks about the problems that Chief Art Jones faces trying to lead his people. Lewis speaks about the problems of higher education for the young Indian people. Lewis speaks about the fishing rights of the Pachenant people, which is heavily restricted by the treaty made with the British. Lewis relates the fishing provisions of the Pachenant people by telling a story Chief Art Jones told him in their interview about the prosecution of the previous Chief Charlie Jones for fishing violations. Lewis speaks about Chief Art Jones' wish and plan to bring his people back to the reserve, i.e. annuities for returning members. Lewis speaks about social problems among the Pachenant community. Lewis speaks about the importance of the children for Pachenant people.
Tape 4, Side One: George Pablo begins by introducing himself as a counselor for Native Americans in Yakima and along the coast to Canada. [Tape is of poor quality and cannot be understood. It gets a bit better after about five minutes.] Pablo speaks about the alcohol treatment programs on the reservation. Pablo speaks about the effects of alcohol on the young Indian people. Pablo speaks about the programs in place to help Indian people combat alcoholism. Pablo speaks about the nature of Indian people that keeps them from speaking out publicly. David Tuck asks about the acceptance level for the Indian Reorganization Act. Pablo speaks about the self-sufficiency of his people. Pablo speaks about the white-Indian relations in his area. Pablo attests to the movement of Indian people to the Urban areas, off the reservation. David Tuck asks about Pablo's knowledge of traditional Flathead ways. Pablo speaks about the retention of traditional hunting and fishing ways. Pablo speaks about the Shakers and about traditional religion, the "Feather religion" or "Bluejay religion." Pablo speaks about the Flathead language. David Tuck asks about myths or legends. Pablo dodges the question. Tuck tries to bait him into telling a legend. Pablo speaks briefly about the coyote. Tuck asks about the function of oral tradition in modern Native American life. Pablo speaks briefly about the retention of traditional ways. Pablo speaks about the Flathead reservation. Pablo speaks about the retention of smoke shacks on the Flathead reservation. Pablo speaks about the dams and the timber as the major sources of income on the Flathead reservation.
Tape 4, Side Two: [Very poor recording.] Beatrice Black speaks about the traditional ways of travel by canoe on the river systems. Black speaks about walking the beach to get to a place. Black speaks about her brother, who hunted whale and seal. Black speaks about her father's homestead outside of Flatbush. Black speaks about obtaining and selling fish in her day. Black speaks about her father picking hops yearly. Black speaks about using cattails for mats, and where to find cattails. Beatrice Black speaks about gathering grasses. Black speaks about taking a canoe from Neah Bay to Seattle and then sleeping on the dock. Black speaks about traveling to Canada to fish the Fraser River. Black speaks about hunting sea lion. Black speaks about whale watching teams and whale hunting. Beatrice Black speaks about whale hunting. Black speaks about the cataloging of the whale meat. Black speaks about her husband fishing.
Tape 5, Side One: Clifford Mowitch introduces Ben Charles who is a master carver on the Quinault reservation, who teaches the children. Ben Charles speaks about his beginnings as a wood carver. Ben Charles speaks about teaching carving at Gray's Harbor Community College. Ben Charles specializes in carving canoes and paddles. Ben Charles speaks about carving a 27-foot canoe for the World's Fair in Spokane for the Smithsonian. Ben Charles speaks about his father who was a canoe bearer. Ben Charles speaks about the different kinds of canoes and their functions. All kinds of canoes were made out of red cedar. Shovel-nose canoes. "Half-breed" canoes that were built by the white people were shoveled in the front but built with a place for a motor in the back. Ben Charles speaks about the profits made by the tribe from the carving industry. Deanna Trotchie tries to draw the "meaning" of totem poles out of Ben Charles, but Mr. Charles is not very responsive to her questions. Mr. Charles concedes that the paddles and the totem poles are related to different family lines. A second interview with Tribal Chairman of the Quinault Reservation, Joe De La Cruz begins. Joe De La Cruz begins with a brief history of the tribal council. 1922 as the year of the first set of bylaws adopted by the Quinault. Gives names of previous Chairmen and their relations to the original treaty signers. Explains the Tribal Constitution. Joe De La Cruz speaks about the Allotment Act of 1887, and the effects it had on his people and Quinault land. After the allotment of the reservation the timber companies zoned the timber, and eventually most of it was logged off by long-term contract. Joe De La Cruz speaks of closing off the Reservation, the beach, lake, highway and woods. The logging companies obtained restraining orders from the Federal government, but De La Cruz enforced the closure of the woods on the reservation.
Tape 5, Side Two: Joe De La Cruz speaks about the monetary loss incurred by the tribe because of their battle to gain autonomy over their timber. De La Cruz speaks on the community outreach programs. Resource development. Resource rehabilitation. Improvement planning. Joe De La Cruz speaks about the beach restrictions, the penalties for trespass by non-Indian etc, and the hunting and clam digging regulations that were redefined by De La Cruz in the Tribal Constitution. De La Cruz speaks about the hatchery on Lake Quinault. Cruz speaks about the houses on the reservation, from the government shacks built in the 1930s to the more modern homes today, that were commissioned in the 1960s. "Self-help" houses.
Tape 6, Side One: Joe De La Cruz speaks about the education system for the Quinault people. The addition of Native values and traditions to the standard curriculum to make education more meaningful to the children. Growing rate of Quinault people who attend college. De La Cruz speaks about when his people attended boarding school, mostly at Chemawa. Deanna asks about De La Cruz's feelings towards Wounded Knee. De La Cruz answers. De La Cruz speaks about the steelhead controversy. Washington State banned the sale of game fish, steelhead being a game fish, so tribes sold their steelhead harvest in Oregon while the battle was being fought in court. De La Cruz gives a bit of Quinault history. Primary subsistence during the pre-European contact period. Longhouse locations. Interview ends abruptly. Interview with Nina Baumgardner begins. Nina Baumgardner speaks about shearing sheep in Montana. This discussion leads into a recitation of the twenty-third psalm and her belief in Jesus Christ. Baumgardner speaks about fishing as the primary livelihood of the Quinaults. Nina speaks about attending boarding school at the Puyallup Indian School, which later became known as Cushman Hospital. Motus [Mawtoos] big goings-on, pow-wow, potlatch that she attended with her father put on by Anna Cotes. Nina recalls Puyallup children dipping for salmon on the river. Nina lists some of the prominent family lines of the Puyallup tribe. Nina recalls being brought back to the boarding school from the gathering. Nina speaks about witnessing children fish with a spear in the river. Nina speaks about picking berries. Nina describes a berry scoop that was used to gather loot (root)-berries.
Tape 6, Side Two: Nina speaks about the lodges, made of split timber and open at the top, that her people use to inhabit. Interview cuts out.
Tape 7, Side One: Interview begins in progress with Nina Baumgardner telling of her experience in the Shaker Church. She speaks of the opening and the finishing of the table with a song and a prayer by a sister of the Church. Nina speaks about the apple orchard on North River. Nina describes the processing of the apples. Nina speaks about her family picking apples at the orchard, and her encounter with Sasquatch, Tsi'at'qwes (Ts'emekwes in Lummi). Nina speaks of an encounter with Tsi'at'qwes that her father had on the Nash River. A pear was thrown at her uncle, while there were no pear trees in the area, this is from Ske'kum, something unnatural. Squaxen Island as the headquarters for Tsi'at'qwes. Nina speaks about her holdings on Squaxen Island. Nina speaks about Sasquatch sightings at Gray's Harbor. Nina describes Tsi'at'qwes to her knowledge. Nina speaks about Indian and white relations. Deanna asks about the origin of the Quinault and Nina answers that the Quinault have always been there. Nina addresses the Bering Strait land bridge theory that was described to her as the true origin of her people. Another story claims that the Indian people never did cross the land bridge. Nina recalls speaking to a Mormon missionary, who claimed that Indians were the chosen people. Nina speaks of the "I" that watches you. Nina speaks about her knowledge of the Old and New Testament and upbringing. Nina addresses the belief that Indians are "superstitious." Nina speaks about the sacred nature of water. She tells a fable about water.
Tape 7, Side Two: Blank
Tape 8, Side One: Nina Baumgardner speaks about the retaliation to Little Big Horn by the white soldiers on the Sioux. Nina speaks about the unjust nature of the military action against the Indians. Nina speaks about the singing among the Montana Indians. She recalls traveling to many reservations, the Blackfeet, Flathead, Coeur de Lane, Chehalis etc. Nina shows Deanna and others her stash of trade beads (wampum), abalone shells and other objects. Nina speaks about Cushman Indian Boarding School. She recalls beginning school at age six, her homesickness. Nina speaks about her treatment at boarding school. She recalls her sister's experience at St. John's Catholic Boarding School between Seattle and Tacoma, where Native language use was discouraged with physical abuses like lye soap mouthwashes. Nina speaks about working in Seattle during WWII. Nina speaks about Indian hospitality. Nina speaks about attending the Shaker Church. She recalls the singing and dancing. Nina tells the story of the foundation of the Shaker Church with the resurrection of John Slocum. Nina attests to John Slocum belonging to the Squaxen Island people. Nina repeats John Slocum's mission statement that he received from God.
Tape 8, Side Two: Blank
Tape 9, Side One: Jeff Wilner introduces Louie Wapato. Louie Wapato introduces himself. He speaks about living on his family's original allotments and tending the apple orchards that his family began after the European expansion into their lands. Louie Wapato speaks about the uses of apples, and the raising up of apple orchards. Louie speaks about the early relations between the white people and the Native Americans. Louie speaks about the formation of the Colville reservation on land that was not particularly desirable to the white people at that time, who had already colonized the Colville Valley. He speaks about the mineral property rights of the Colville people. He gives a brief history of the Colville reservation land. The effects of the gold rush, and the minimizing of Colville land by the Federal government during the Allotment Act. Louie speaks to the derisive effects of the Wheeler-Howard Act (Allotment Act). Louie speaks about his role during the Wheeler-Howard Act hearings. He worked as an interpreter. Louie speaks about his grandfather, where he lived and his orchard. Louie speaks about how his grandfather traded for horses and canoes at The Dalles. Louie recalls Barnaby, who was a powerful Colville. Louie speaks about the qualities of an Indian chief in the early days as compared to what his people require from a chief in modern times. Louie speaks about past chiefs, Qe'mý'ekin who was Paloose etc. Wilner asks about other leaders of the Colville. Louie names a few.
Tape 9, Side Two: [Recording is poor] Louie speaks about state taxation on tribal lands. Louie speaks about Judge John Marshall. Jeff Wilner asks about the 1920's before the New Deal. Louie speaks about the State's oppression of the Indian people. Louie speaks about the Commercial Club that use to be responsible for tribal affairs before the Colville had a business council in the 1910s and 1920s. Louie recalls traveling to Washington DC during the New Deal times and speaking to Emmens and Zimmerman, the assistant commissioner, and Secretary of the Interior. Jeff Wilner asks about the history of the Moses Allotments along the Columbia River. Louie speaks about the removal of the Indians from their traditional homelands along the Columbia River. Louie recalls Long Jim opposing the allotments in favor of a reservation. But the people were forced into taking individual allotments. Louie's wife tells why they were called Moses Allotments. Moses was the chief at the time U.S. officials forced the Indians to take up on allotments. Louie describes the delegation of allotments and tribal land. Louie attests to the Indian ownership of the river bottom and ore beneath it. This ownership was opposed later by the State. Jeff Wilner asks why the Medhows didn't like Moses. Louie and his wife speak about Moses' claim to the Medhows' land that caused friction. Louie's wife speaks of Moses' tyranny as a leader. Louie claims that it was Moses' father that was tyrannical. Moses' death fighting the Blackfeet. Louie's wife speaks about the take over of Wapato Point. She describes ownership practices from a Native perspective: it's the tribe that controls land not the individual. Louie speaks about State taxation on tribal lands. Jeff Wilner asks about Chief Tenasket. Louie recalls Chief Tenasket. Louie speaks to the familial nature of the chief's position, where there are certain family lines in a tribe who breed chiefs. Jeff Wilner asks about Sosopkin from Loomis. Louie speaks about Sosopkin leaving for Canada.
Tape 10, Side One: Jeff Wilner asks about Chelan Bob. Louie attests to him being his uncle. Chelan Bob was a Wenatchee Indian. Louie speaks about the Colville Reservation once being the Grant Reservation designed for many different tribes in the Eastern Washington area, and thus bringing his uncle from Wenatchee. Chelan Bob married Long Jim's sister. Louie described Chelan Jim. Louie speaks about the "real" Yakamas who only reside now in Nespelem. He claims the Yakama living on the Yakama Reservation are "imported" from the Columbia River basin. He claims the "real" Yakama were massacred by white colonizers. Louie speaks about some of the traditional camping places for Indian people. Louie speaks about his grandfather, the George's, living at Vantage Point along Crab Creek and running cattle. The George's are Moses' people. Louie speaks about being drafted when his father was ill and receiving a delay. Louie's wife speaks about the New Council's meeting where Louie was almost arrested. This was in 1930. Louie recalls some of the first Council people, Pete Gunn, Jim James, etc. Louie, Louie's wife, and an unidentified woman speak about the tribal debate over the New Deal Policies. Louie speaks about the Dam that was built on the Columbia River, and the tribes involvement in the sale of their half of the river bed. Louie attributes the sale of the river bed land to the "half-bloods" that were in control of tribal politics at the time. Louie's wife speaks to how the "half-bloods" gained control of the council. Louie's wife speaks about her father building one of the first orchards. Jeff Wilner asks about the Medhow people. Louie speaks about Moses and Long Jim being forced onto the reservation. Louie's wife speaks about the death of Wapato John's grandson who was a baby when he fell from a horse on its way to the reservation. This was during the Indian removal time. Louie recalls the relocation of the Nez Perce to Nespelem.
Tape 10, Side Two: Blank
Tape 11-11A, Side One: Joe Louie introduces himself as a Nooksack and describes his people's territory. Born in 1894, near Lynden. Father's name is Louie Saq'wel'ti, Mother's name is Annie. She was Nooksack and part Skagit. Recalls the first white settlements in Lynden, the first saw and shingle mills. Joe Louie speaks about his father's renown as a hunter. His father was contracted to hunt for funerals and gatherings. Joe Louie speaks to learning to hunt from his father. Hunts for his people, not for money. Speaks to the Native value of giving. Indian way of live is to offer. Speaks to the loss of this value for the sake of modernism. Treaty of 1855. The Nooksack were not a party to the Treaty due to the harsh winter weather, which made the river non-negotiable. White settlers began to take up homesteads on Nooksack land. Nooksack people couldn't take homesteads until 1884. Joe Louie recalls the traditional burial practice of placing the dead in trees. Homesteads where taken by white people on these burial grounds. Some on traditional spiritual beliefs. The white people that took the homesteads with burials didn't know what to do with the bones scattered on their property. After the Indian Homestead Act, Joe Louie's grandfather, father, and others worked to gather the bones and place them in a cemetery in Northwood. Joe Louie speaks about the way of life of the hunter. A hunter receives an invitation to provide for the people. A hunter then must prepare by understanding life. A hunter must hunt for a death. The search for the animal that is willing to give itself up. Joe Louie laments the fact that Indian parents do not teach their children about the real way of life, do not provide a true education. Education does not lead to acceptance within the white world for an Indian.
Tape 11-11A, Side Two: Joe Louie speaks about sending a young Indian man to college and his eventual non-acceptance in a predominantly white firm. Joe Louie speaks about the importance of obtaining an education in the Indian way. Joe Louie speaks about meeting with Dr. Webb and discussing education. Joe Louie speaks about the problem of Indian homestead land that has too many heirs to be claimed without a cooperative sale of the land to the tribe. The Federal government disallows this practice, and the land remains unused due to family conflict. [Tape shuts off briefly] Joe Louie speaks about being confined to a reservation. Failure of the current programs to meet immediate needs for the elderly, and those not fit to work in jobs off the reservation. Joe Louie speaks about having to go to the Lummi Reservation for health services. Joe Louie speaks to working towards Indian autonomy from the Federal government. Speaks about building up farms for the Indian people to work. Joe Louie speaks about obtaining tribal recognition for his Nooksack people. He speaks about working with Dr. Reinhart at Western Washington University. Transcript available.
Tape 12, Side One: Jeff Wilner begins by asking about the Wheeler-Howard Act (Allotment Act), and the negative attitudes towards it by the Indians. Joe Louie attests that the Nooksack did not act negatively to the Act. The Nooksack were an organized people. Joe Louie speaks about having no voice in the debate over the Act because the Nooksack were not recognized as a Treaty tribe. Reinhart from Western Washington University helped the Nooksack establish their tribal claim. Joe Louie speaks about the Act being another piece of bureaucracy that was not intended to help the Indian people's immediate needs. Joe Louie speaks about being asked to leave his homestead and move up to the Middle Fork to less desirable land. Some on the Indian Homestead Act as being comparable to Treaty land rights. Joe Louie speaks about being a part of an Indian organization that was active in petitioning for education and health benefits for the Nooksack. Joe Louie speaks about the problems with the programs that are designed to help Indian people. Superintendent Upchurch and Graves. Constitution and bylaws at Lummi and Swinomish. Forrest Kinley's wife as being responsible for drawing up the Constitution at Lummi. Joe Louie speaks about the general acceptance of the Wheeler-Howard Act as a being the result of the need of Indian Tribes for the Federal programs and protection provided under the Act.
Tape 12, Side Two: [Poor recording] Joe Louie speaks about his desire for acceptance from the white community. Joe Louie speaks about feeling rejected from the churches and schools in the white community. Joe Louie speaks to not caring whether the Federal government recognizes his people as a tribe. He wants the people that surround him in his everyday life to recognize him as an Indian and an equal. Joe Louie speaks about including in the Nooksack Constitution and bylaws the ability for Nooksack relations not on the census to be able to enter the tribal roles. Joe Louie speaks about starting the "small tribe" which served to educate the rest of the Nooksack people on organizing and getting together as a people. Joe Louie speaks about Roy leading the Nooksack. Joe Louie speaks about Bob Davis, who is a Yakama, and is the Chairman of the Nooksack Incorporated, which is Roy's group. Joe Louie speaks about Tom Williams and Ed Roberts who are part of Roy's group. Joe speaks about being a part of Wilfred Cline's group, who are working on the Constitution and bylaws. Joe Louie speaks about Mickey Roberts.
Tape 13, Side One: Joe Louie speaks about Mickey Roberts. Joe Louie speaks about Nooksack Tribal political matters. Joe Louie speaks about Mary Hillaire, and her role in Nooksack political dealings. Programs for economic development. Joe speaks about the deleterious effects of fish hatcheries for the river, but the benefits of hatcheries for the employment of Nooksack people. Joe speaks about the need for his people to thank life. Joe tells a story that teaches about thanking life. Joe speaks about the eradication of the cedar tree from over exploitation. Joe speaks about other uses for the cedar product. Joe Louie speaks about the function of the Indian dance as a right of initiation for a young person.
Tape 13, Side Two: Blank
Tape 14, Side One: Nettie is of Týx tribe, which is called Warm Springs now. Nettie speaks her mother and her father's names and tells where they are from. Nettie speaks about who her father was and where he was from. He grew up in Nespelem, and was half Nez Perce and half Warm Springs. Nettie gives both her father and mother's Indian name. Interviewer, Randy Lewis, asks about Klick Relander, who worked with the Warm Springs on the book, Drummers and the Dreamers. Nettie speaks about his [Klick Relander's] faith in Smohalla. Nettie speaks to the evil nature of Smohalla, who as her father tells her, often would tear up the Washat drums and gamble, before he found his faith through death. Nettie speaks to the origin of birth of Smohalla, who was a Wanapum from Priest Rapids. Nettie speaks to Smohalla's resurrection. Nettie attests that Rex Buck took the long house over from the man that took the long house over from Smohalla. Randy Lewis and Nettie discuss losing the long house at Priest Rapids to the wind. Nettie speaks about her husband, Alba, who was half Wanapum and half Yakama. Nettie explains the difference between a "drummer" and a "dreamer." Dreamers or the Wasklik are of the feather dance. Wasklik have more power, like the Shaker Indian doctor. The Washat, or drummers, don't dream, they just believe there is a heaven. Nettie and Randy Lewis list the Indian doctors in the Valley and the surrounding area. Nettie and Randy Lewis speak about the Chinook dances in the winter where Wasklik, or Indian doctors must prove themselves. There are different categories or degrees of Indian doctors, like the strongest would be the Bluejays. Nettie speaks about the preparation that is needed before roots are gathered in the springtime. This is part of Washat. There is the root feast in the spring time, then the salmon feast, and berry feast. Nettie speaks about having a root feast in Wanapum after gathering the roots. Nettie discusses the people involved in the gathering party as well as the doings at night after the gathering of roots. Nettie speaks about peeling the roots and then going to sweat. The next morning the cooking begins early, and everyone in the long house must wear new clothing for the root feast. Nettie explains about the significance of the seven drums for Washa. Randy Lewis concludes that Smohalla was not the founder of Washa, but was more a prognosticator for it. Randy Lewis adds that only those who belong to Washat have the right know about it. Transcript available.
Tape 14, Side Two: Blank
Tape 15, Side One: Tape is damaged due to degradation.
Tape 15, Side Two: Tape is damaged due to degradation.
Tape 16, Side One: The tape contains vocabulary of the Sinkiuse language by Qe'lheshp'eken and his wife Agnes. Included are kinship terms and place names. Colville pronunciations are included also.
Tape 16, Side Two: More vocabulary. [Poor recording] Place names, toponyms, continue. Various verbs and nouns. Various fishing gear terminology. Many terms for horses. Vocabulary words for modern devices are Indian derivations.
Tape 17, Side One: Vocabulary - human body parts. [Recording is good] Other vocabulary words, verbs, adjectives and nouns. Months of the year, etc.
Tape 17, Side Two: Vocabulary - adjectives and various other types of words. Place names, days of the week.
Tape 18-19, Side One: Vocabulary - diseases, modes of travel, horse outfittings.
Tape 18-19, Side Two: Vocabulary - names of fish species, geographic terms and traditional identities for the people there, birds, insects and shellfish, plants, place names, counting in numbers, and kinship terms.
Tape 20, Side One: Introduction to the Cowlitz people by Jim Holy Cross, their distribution, habitation. Upper and Lower Cowlitz are separated, in modern geography, by Ethel, Washington. Jim Holy Cross speaks about his family lineage. Jim Holy Cross speaks about the Cowlitz meetings, which he views as being governed by money now rather than by principle. Jim speaks about the Cowlitz being a non-treaty tribe. Jim speaks about the intent of the Cowlitz Council to reclaim tribal lands. Jim Holy Cross speaks about the two different rolls for the Cowlitz tribe. Jim Holy Cross speaks about the blood quantum issue, at what degree should someone be considered Indian. Jim speaks about living and working with the Suquamish as an alcohol counselor. Jim speaks about the problematic nature of forming a Cowlitz reservation. Jim speaks about being bought off by the Federal government in lieu of official recognition.
Tape 20, Side Two: Blank
Tape 21: Jim McKay, Lummi Chief and head of the tribal council, and Ramona Morris head of HEW projects at Lummi were interviewed for KVOS-TV in Bellingham, Washington by Bill Clement. Tape was submitted by Bernie Thomas, Lummi, of the KVOS staff.
Tape 22: Ramona Morris, Director of Health, Education, and Welfare for the Lummi Nation is interviewed by her daughter, Raynette Morris on Lummi political affairs from 1960-1973, special programs and cultural as well as economic development. Topics covered include; Aquaculture, LIGHT, various councils- their purposes and composition, Lummi by-laws, and educational programs and concerns. Transcript available.
Tape 23: Al Charles, Lummi elder, master carver and cultural leader, describes Lummi history. Topics covered include the delineation of the Lummi as opposed to other Coast Salish groups, toponyms (mostly in Xwlemi chosen, Lummi language) and traditional gathering and living areas, longhouse locations, treaty missionaries and educational practices and the effects of the Allotment Act. Note that any Lummi words will be spelled out using the Lummi phonetic alphabet, thus pronunciation will follow according to the rules of the Lummi alphabet which differs from the American English letter-sound assignment. Transcript available.
Tape 24: Conclusion to the interview with Al Charles started on tape 23. The tape contains about 7 minutes of material that overlaps with tape 23 and presents no new information.
Tape 25: Topics covered in this interview include traditional fishing- implements, i.e. hooks, nets, weirs, anchors, locations, processing of the catch, i.e. smoking, drying, and butchering; Siowyn, the banning and release of winter dancing (pow-wow); and Dora Solomon discusses traditional floral resources. Lummi words and Skagit words appear in the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 26: Conclusion to the interview started on tape 25. Topics covered on this tape include: Smokehouse (longhouse) life, treatment of visitors, and Skagit story of how the Creator gave the trees to the people in the beginning (told by Dora Solomon). Lummi words and Skagit words appear in the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 27: Lummi elder, Angeline Alexander, discusses genealogy. Only about 10 minutes long and most of the names recalled are the Indian names.
Tape 28: Topics covered include Family genealogy (as covered, though in less detail, on tape 27) and the Creation story of how the Lummi became a tribe, Sxweloxt and his brother. Lummi names and words appear in the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 29: Continuation of interview started on tape 28. Topics covered include the conclusion of the story of Sxweloxt, family genealogy is continued, boarding school education- i.e. the Tulalip boarding school and Cushman, conduct and features of a traditional gathering, and toponyms. Lummi names and words appear in the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 30: Conclusion to interview that began on tape 28. Only about 5 minutes of interview are contained on this tape and the topic of discussion is raiding. Transcript available.
Tape 31: Similar to the lectures given on tape 32 and 40, however question and answer periods vary. Lecture given to CES class. Topics covered include: An introduction to the distinguishing features of Northwest Coast Indians, original use and inhabitation of the San Juan Islands, land mammal hunting- including materials and implements, traditional fishing implements- including materials used for making nets, hooks, traps, and weirs, duck hunting, snares, materials used for carving, masks- including who can wear them and when, naming ceremonies- including a description of the process or work involved. Question and answer period follows the lecture. All Lummi words are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet.
Tape 32: Similar to the lectures given on tape 31 and 40, however question and answer periods vary. Lecture given to CES class. Topics covered include: An introduction to the distinguishing features of Northwest Coast Indians, original use and inhabitation of the San Juan Islands, land mammal hunting- including materials and implements, traditional fishing implements- including materials used for making nets, hooks, traps, and weirs, duck hunting, snares, materials used for carving, masks- including who can wear them and when, naming ceremonies- including a description of the process or work involved. Question and answer period follows the lecture. All Lummi words are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet. Tape 32 does not exist in the collection at CPNWS.
Tape 33: Topics covered in this interview include: Nooksack delineation; traditional fishing implements and materials; traditional floral and faunal resources- used for food, shelter, and clothing; boarding schools and educational experiences; early missionaries- i.e. Father Cheriouse; why the Nooksacks were not at the Point Elliot Treaty signing; longhouse location and construction; traditional dyes; appropriate etiquette at a gathering; and more on boarding school life. Words in Halkomalem, Lhacheslum (Nooksack), Skagit, and Lummi are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet system. Transcript available.
Tape 34: This tape is a continuation of the interview that started on tape 33. Topics covered include: Introductions and personal identifications, and traditional marriage practices (partial). Words in Lummi and Skagit are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet system. Transcript available.
Tape 35, Side One: Transcript available.
Tape 35, Side Two: Blank
Tape 36, Side One: Transcript available.
Tape 36, Side Two: Transcript available.
Tape 37: Topics covered in this interview include: Experiences with early Indian education policies of acculturation and assimilation through the boarding schools and reservation mission schools, early industrial opportunities for Nooksack people, land appropriation and compensation, some on Shaker religion and Methodist diffusion, Native language loss and restoration programs for the Nooksack language, traditional funerary customs, dancing and spirit doctoring. All Indian words are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 38: Conclusion of the interview which began on tape 37. Tape 38 does not exist in the collection at CPNWS.
Tape 39: [Poor recording quality] This speech at the Lummi Tribal Center given is a brief version of the one contained on tape 40.
Tape 40: Appearance at VU (possibly Viking Union at WWU?)
Tape 41: Similar to the lectures given on tape 31 and 32, however question and answer periods vary. This lecture given to CES class was held in the Viking Union on the campus of Western Washington University. Topics covered include: An introduction to the distinguishing features of Northwest Coast Indians, original use and inhabitation of the San Juan Islands, land mammal hunting- including materials and implements, traditional fishing implements- including materials used for making nets, hooks, traps, and weirs, duck hunting, snares, materials used for carving, masks- including who can wear them and when, naming ceremonies- including a description of the process or work involved. Question and answer period follows the lecture where questions concerning raiding and slavery are addressed. All Lummi words are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 42: Topics covered in this interview include: Genealogy, position of the "chief" within the community, early leaders including chief Tsi'li'xw, Chow'its'soot, and Kwina, repercussions of the Allotment Act, early industries, raiding and battles fought with the Northern peoples, and boarding school experiences. All Lummi names and words are transcribed using the Lummi alphabet. Transcript available.
Tape 43: Conclusion to the interview started on tape 42. Topics covered include: Boarding school experiences, modern issues including militancy, racism, land trust disputes, Bureau of Indian Affairs, the economy on the Lummi reservation, modern fishing, and treaty grievances. Transcript available.
Tape 44, Side One: Morris Dan and his wife Bertha. Ken House, John Sheridan and William Baylis are students enrolled in the class. Bertha and Morris Dan express their concern over having the non-native students there. Bertha speaks about previous researchers who came in and take as fact the words of one individual. She is concerned that her words will be used improperly. Landy James, one of the interviewers, defends the practice of taping interviews with the elders as a means of cultural preservation for Indian people. Morris and Bertha Dan continue to rebuke the idea of having their words taped and taken away. A lengthy discussion of the goals of the project follows. Morris Dan speaks about the importance of knowing your family line. Bertha speaks about the division of the Swinomish people into certain sections on the reservation. Morris Dan speaks about the inclusion of the Samish, Lower Skagits and other groups on the Swinomish reservation when the land was allotted. Bertha and Morris try to figure out how many families are represented in the room.
Tape 44, Side Two: Various talk. Landy James speaks about the importance of hearing from more than one family on an issue. Morris speaks about the formation of the reservation under the Indian Homestead Act of 1887. Morris Dan speaks to Landy James' lineage. Discussion of when would be the best time meet again. Morris Dan tells a story about Doug, his grandson. Morris speaks about the ties between the Samish and the Swinomish. Morris and Bertha Dan speak about the young woman researcher that lived among the Swinomish and then took the information she accumulated and left the area with it. The many examples of this kind of exploitation have created a great amount of cautiousness for future such endeavors.
Tape 45: Landy hands out a couple of sheets that the people present and take some time to look over. [a basketball game in the background makes it difficult to hear the questions that are asked] Landy discusses some of the conceptions attached to being an Indian in the modern world. Landy discusses the idea of shame and the family that helps bring the person around. Landy speaks about the ritualistic nature of time. A question is asked about the growing importance for Western education for the Native American student. Landy speaks to why education is becoming a source of pride for families. Landy speaks about the traditional territory of the Swinomish. [Recording switches to high speed and fades out.]
Tape 46, Side One: Meeting begins in progress with Lucy introducing Webster Two Hawk. Mr. Two Hawk speaks about being new to Indian political affairs. He begins by explaining what his organization is seeking. The duties/mission statement for the members of the National Tribal Chairman's Association. Mr. Two Hawk is a Chairman of the Rosebud Sioux tribe. He outlines some of his and his people's frustrations with current and past Indian policies of the Federal government. Speaks to the Indian tribes' right to self-government. Mr. Two Hawk lists his tribe's grievances with the Federal government. Of these is the impossibility of tribal self-determination under the present structure of Indian policies. Mr. Two Hawk presents a projection to remedy the current situation, and aid in the establishment of self-determination for Indian Nations. Mr. Two Hawk speaks to allowing the tribe full control over education for their Indian children without interference by the BIA. He speaks of not equating self-determination with termination. The next speaker is introduced, Executive Director of the National Tribal Chairman's Association, Bill [Yulley]. Mr. Yulley speaks about the origin of the National Tribal Chairman's Association, which was founded for the leaders of the Federally recognized tribes who live and work with reservation policy.
Tape 46, Side Two: The next speaker is introduced, Chairman Robert Jim of Yakama reservation. Mr. Jim speaks about upholding the treaty rights for the benefit of his people over all other things. Mr. Jim speaks about the proliferation of tribal policies, which see no action. Mr. Jim speaks about the function of the National Tribal Chairman's Association, who he feels represents all tribes with a land base. He feels the integrity of the NTCA is in jeopardy. He speaks of the danger of the Federal Government appending tribal land. He speaks to the function of such groups like the NTCA and the NCAI in reclaiming funds from the Federal Government that have not been rightfully distributed to the Indian tribes. Announcements are made and the next speaker is introduced. Nez Perce member Walter [Moltuck]. Mr. Moltuck reads a resolution he received from a different tribe that is an appeal for communication between Indian Nations. He speaks to the divided nature of Indian groups who are looking outside themselves for leaders. He speaks about FBI monitoring on the Spokane reservation and other Indian Nations. He speaks to tribal unity through an organization movement and a utilization of groups such as the NCTA and the NCAI.
Tape 47, Side One: The meeting begins in progress with a speaker asking for an endorsement from the NCTA. Speaks about the urgency of the situation, which calls for a unity of Indian peoples, and the forgiveness of past grudges between tribes that will facilitate the lobby for fishing resolutions. Another speaker relating his experiences as an Indian fisherman confronting the myth that it's Indian fishing that is depleting the resource. The speaker dispels this myth, and speaks of the monopoly that the white man has on commercial fishing. The speaker introduces Mike Taylor, an attorney working for the Indian tribes to secure treaty fishing rights. Doug speaks about his organization, The Native American Rights to [Hunt], which is a law firm expert in treaty cases that work to protect tribal sovereignty. Speaks about pending suits, such as the suit against the Army Corps of Engineers on the Columbia River who are involved in the modification of the dams along the Columbia River, which is resulting in the loss of traditional fishing sites for the Tribes along the Columbia River. The questions asked to the attorneys are difficult to decipher. An unidentified speaker with the attorneys speaks about providing physical protection for Native people so they can fish unmolested. Dave [Weir] & Jenny speak about a report that shows where the fish are really going. [The woman speaker is very hard to hear over the background noise] Negotiations between Canada and American Native fishing tribes. Annual catch of Coho salmon in the Puget Sound, by percentage taken by group. [Last five minutes of the tape are damaged]
Tape 47, Side Two: [Tape is damaged, or recording is very poor for about the first seven minutes.] Speaker calls for a list of grievances from every fishing tribe. Explains articles of incorporation and bylaws as they pertain to fishing. Another speaker breaks in and speaks about the wish of the Canadian Indians to become involved in the fight for the right to fish as the treaty guarantees. A speaker from the Klamath people speaks to his grievances, and knowledge of traditional fishing land where the government says there is none. The lawyers address the issue of land the tribe claims to be traditional hunting and fishing grounds, but that is not recognized or protected by the Federal Government. The lawyer speaks of the process of ethno-historical reconstruction that must be completed for the Courts to recognize and protect traditionally utilized land. The Chairman of the committee lists the resolutions, and these resolutions are discussed and added to.
Tape 48: Tape is irreparably damaged, due to degradation. No access tape available.
Tape 49: Tape is irreparably damaged due to degradation.
Tape 50, Side One: Speakers are difficult to decipher, as recording is poor. Some discussion of fishing rights and treaty bylaws. Discussion of a redefinition of the term "Nation", as it is applied to "Indian Nations." Discussion of the name to be used for the Organization being formed at this meeting to fight to uphold treaty rights and bylaws. Some of the names proposed were: Washington State Indian Treaty Rights Organization, Northwest Indian Treaty Rights Organization, Indian Fishing Rights Organization etc. John Solomon from Lummi speaks about the role of the Tribal Councils in the newly formed Treaty Rights organization. Chairman speaks about the intended purpose of the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians as a functioning group. John Solomon speaks about the effectiveness of the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians, and the need for bylaws within the organization.
Tape 50, Side Two: [Recording is poor.] More discussion on the proposed names for the new organization. Discussion on the need for Native groups to be able to unite and try to solve issues in common. The Chairman addresses the issue of the benefit of making the new organization a corporation. The Chairman calls for resolutions from every tribe that wishes to be a part of the new Treaty Rights organization. Discussion of funds for future actions and formations of new organizations. Discussion of aboriginal hunting and fishing rights versus the hunting and fishing rights allowed in the Treaties, and the current pressures from the State level bureaucrats upon Indian tribes to conform to State regulations on hunting and fishing. Discussion on the right to erect smokehouses on the river banks.
Tape 51, Side One: Preamble and bylaws of the organization. Certain representatives give resolutions, and motions are made. Resolution for the cooperation and coordination of the NTCA and Northwest Affiliated Tribes Organization. Resolution on the appointment of new board members.
Tape 51, Side Two: Resolutions and motions continue. Resolution and discussion on the display for the upcoming Expo. Education Committee presents their resolutions.
Tape 52, Side One: Resolution proposed by Cook and Trimble is discussed. Resolution to combat the BIA, right past wrongs by the Federal Government, and repeal Public Laws that have passed that violate the treaty rights of the tribe. John Solomon discusses the need for Indian voices to be acted on more than just heard. Some discussion over the distribution of funds to the NTCA and the NCAI. Some concluding statements focusing on the need for better communication.
Tape 52, Side Two: Blank
Tape 53, Side One: A roll is called for the delegates present at the meeting. Speaker reads the first of the resolutions. Jim McKay of Lummi seconds the resolution and it is passed. Speaker reads the second resolution, which had to do with the reevaluation of the Environmental Protection Policy Act. The Speaker is asked to clarify the Environmental Protection Act, and how it is effecting the Native communities around the country. Speaker presents a resolution for the repeal/revision of Public Law 9335, which negatively effects the Spokane Tribe. Resolution to pressure the Federal government to right past wrongs committed against the Indian tribes.
Tape 53, Side Two: [Tape quality is poor.] Resolution concerning third party approval on grants for tribes. Other resolutions are proposed and adopted. Resolution concerning aid to Urban Indian Centers. Resolution concerning the delegation of funds to repair and restore Chemawa Indian school. Resolutions to promote self-determination.
Tape 54: This is a duplicate copy of Tape 37 in this same collection, only this copy is much clearer and will be used to edit the transcript that was rendered from Tape 37). Transcript available.
Tape 55, Side One: Interview begins in progress. Louisa speaks about a religious leader. Helen Paul speaks about going to Chemawa and Mount Baker High School. Helen speaks about escaping the prejudiced nature of the boarding schools. Ella Reid speaks about her children's experience with the local school system. Louisa testifies to Helen having more problems being Pentecost than being Indian. Jeff Wilner asks about the Shaker Church attendance. Louisa and Helen discuss which families in Nooksack are affiliated with the Shaker Church. Helen speaks about attending a Shaker service. Helen and Louisa describe the doings at a Shaker Service. Ella, Louisa and Helen recall the songs sung in Indian at a Shaker service. Louisa tells the story of the formation of the Shaker church with the resurrection of John Slocum. Helen speaks about the dancing and singing that is part of the Shaker Church. Jeff Wilner asks about the Native American Church following in the area. Louisa speaks about her experience dancing in the Shaker Church. Louisa speaks about being a Pentecost after trying out the Shaker Church. Jeff Wilner asks about the railroad being built through Nooksack land without compensation. Helen speaks about a verbal agreement between the Nooksack people and the railroad company, which didn't come to pass. Helen mentions a lease that was made by the Nooksack people and that wasn't signed by the railroad. Helen and Louisa speak about riding the ferry to Victoria, and from Port Townsend, and receiving half-price fare. Helen speaks about the Coupeville races. Ella speaks about George Swanaset and his half-brother and Henry George (Sam George's uncle) racing at Carlisle. Ella speaks about the entrance process to race at Carlisle. Transcript available.
Tape 55, Side Two: Blank
The collection documents Olympic medalist Franz X. Gabl’s career and interests as a professional skier and ski instructor in Europe, Canada and the Pacific Northwest. The collection contains photographs, newspaper clippings, certificates, and correspondence reflecting Gabl’s achievements and involvement in winter sports from the 1940s through the 1980s. Also included are materials relating to his involvement in the annual Ski to Sea race from Mt. Baker to Bellingham Bay in Washington State.
The collection also contains photographs documenting Gabl’s experiences in the German army during World War II, where he served on the Russian Front from 1941-45. A copy of his autobiography is also included in the collection.
The collection contains a typescript (apparently an action report or war diary) from aboard the USS NEVADA during the D-Day invasion of Normandy from June 6, 1944 through June 18, 1944. The collection also includes two books about the United States Navy including The Almanac of Seapower Vol. 30 No. 2 January 1987 (an official publication of the Navy League of the United States), and USS NEVADA 1916-1946 (a history of the ship and her men published by the Ship's Welfare Department of the USS Nevada for distribution to ship's company).
This is a collection of discussion papers, mostly in German, relating to Indians of British Columbia and the United States.
The collection was produced as the result of an exchange relationship between the Northwest Coast Anthropological Archives of the Völkerkundliche Arbeitsgemeinschaft in Germany and the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies.
The collection contains the papers of Bellingham musician and teacher, Charles Bowen. Materials include song manuscripts, correspondence and a scrapbook.
This collection includes correspondence and financial records relating to a Bellingham loan, insurance and real estate company.
The Leopold Hotel records include corporate, financial, personnel records, architectural drawing and photographs dating between 1902-1984. There is early bondholder and stockholder information for the 1920s, as well as a wealth of information about two of the hotels managers: John C. Pierce (1936-1960) and George Knowles (1960-1979).
Unfortunately, the records are fragmented and in no way cover the long life of the hotel.
This collection comprises bound volumes detailing session laws of the State of Washington.
These records contain documents relating to the Hands Off Washington (HOW) campaign in Whatcom County. These records span from 1988 to 1996. However, the bulk of the material ranges from 1994 to 1995. Contained in these records are administrative and financial records as well as a large amount of subject and reference material relating to gay and lesbian issues, but not specifically limited to either Whatcom County or Washington State. The campaigns against anti-gay rights initiatives such as 608 and 610 as well as 167 and 166 are very well documented in these records. They, however, contain less information concerning later issues such as HOW's gay rights initiative and the organization's dissolution.
The administrative records document both the coordination of meetings and committees of this organization and the financial, such as donations and expenditures. The meeting minutes include both steering committee agendas as well as executive council minutes. They deal with topics such as newsletter information, youth, campus and rural outreach, fundraising, local media monitoring, volunteer coordination, retreats, and events. These records also contain forms that HOW used for potential financial donors, members and general information gathering.
The newsletters, while not a complete run, nevertheless document the official position and news of this HOW branch. They span from July of 1994 to June 1996. Missing issues include July and November of 1995 and April of 1996. Also included in this series are a few other newsletters from other HOW county coalitions.
Speaker and workshop files record the training of both organizational members and educational speakers. Speaker training packets constitute the majority of this series; they contain question and answer sections, samples speeches, newspaper articles, speaking techniques and advice, and other resources pertinent for the training of HOW educational speakers. These files illustrate one method by which HOW ensured that discriminatory initiatives, such as 608 and 610, did not make it on the ballot. With the assistance of public speaking engagements along with public events, and education, they successfully prohibited these initiatives.
The most extensive of the HOW, Whatcom County Coalition Council records are the subject files. Subjects cover a wide spectrum of gay and lesbian issues from HIV/AIDS and sexual orientation research to supportive religious statements and other like minded organizations. HOW also amassed a wide variety of materials pertaining to oppositional organizations. These materials consist of both local and national organizations from conservative groups like Focus on the Family, Lynden Youth Action Coalition, Colorado for Family Values and Paul Cameron to Newt Gingrich, Militias, and other hate groups. Formats in this series include articles, pamphlets, newspaper and magazine clippings, emails, press releases, activity fliers, and other printed material. Subject files were maintained in the order that HOW originally utilized them. They are coded in parentheses from 100 to 1000 and arranged by subject.
The reference files are mostly articles, organized by title. They contain many of the same themes contained within the subject files. Articles such as “Ideas for Handling Distress Patterns and Attacks” and “Dealing with Homophobia” are found in these files. Similar to the subject files, the reference files contain information from and about conservative oppositional organizations. Opposition materials, such as “Violence and the Far Right” and “The Right’s Agenda,” make up the majority of the reference files. Also included in these files are various reports, workshop information, and newspaper clippings about gay and lesbian issues.
There is also ephemera which contain banners, buttons and stickers relating to HOW and their public outreach campaign. The audio visual material contains video tapes and audio cassettes of programs pertaining to gay and lesbian issues.
The number in parentheses is the filing system that Hands Off Washington, Whatcom County Coalition Council used in the organization of their records.
The collection includes maps and survey notes relating to an inventory of shorelines and lakeshores in Whatcom County, Washington.
Correspondence, research materials and other papers documenting the work of sports historian Dr. Jack W. Berryman with the Wild Steelhead Coalition. Berryman is the author of "Fly Fishing Pioneers and Legends of the Northwest" (2006), a professor emeritus at University of Washington, and a former president of the Wild Steelhead Coalition. The collection consists of Berryman's personal papers regarding correspondence and research, Papers related to the Steelhead Moratorium, and information regarding the Coalition's hearings and presentations between 2003 and 2004.
The Morse Hardware Company records consist of three specific series spanning the years 1891-1999. These series are: 1) The records of the Morse Hardware Company, 2) Morse Family Materials, and 3) Bellingham and Whatcom County Historical Materials. The first series, the company records, comprise the bulk of the collection. This series includes Board of Directors meeting minutes, stockholder minutes, extensive financial material including ledgers and account books, sales records, invoices, daybooks, cash books, shipping and freight records, taxes, leases and other property records which document growth and change in business activity. The records also include extensive material documenting employees and employee functions. Marketing, merchandise and customer relations played an increasingly important role as the company grew and flourished. A large section of the collection documents this activity and includes a number of sales catalogs generated by Morse Hardware and other companies. These catalogs were used by the Morse sales staff as they canvassed their respective territories. Finally, the Morse company records include subject files maintained in the main office which document the humor, general interests, and business philosophy of the Morse family. The final two series were created by members of Morse family and include pamphlets, maps, photographs and manuscript material, which document the history of Morse Hardware and the history of the local community and which underscore the important role that this family-owned business served in the local community and the regional economy.
As generated by the Morse Family
The collection comprises the last will and testament of Esther Ruth Ross of the Stillaguamish tribe.
The David T. Mason Papers reflect the varied interests and research pursuits of this beloved Fairhaven professor and include a small portion of materials relating to the lives of his parents, Lucile (Roush) and Herbert Mason.
Family and Personal papers contains correspondence, photographs and background information about Mason and his immediate family. The Mason and Roush family photographs date from approximately 1865 to the middle of the 1900s and document Herbert Mason’s research expeditions to the arctic during the early 1900s, Yosemite National Park field school, Stanford and Berkeley, California, as well as a host of botanical and geological locations. This series documents his school and formative years, including his experimentation with LSD in the mid 1960s, teaching and scholarly pursuits, and ongoing contact with family, male and female lovers, and friends.
Records pertaining to Mason's education and career comprise the core of his collection, including samples of course materials (lectures and notes) from classes he taught at Western Washington University and at Fairhaven College from the 1970s through the 1990s. Course materials include a clippings file from Mason's Gay Studies class from the early 1970s, as well as handwritten lectures from popular and well-attended biology and ecology classes. Education and Career records also contains project notes, data, published, and unpublished research papers about various sites Mason explored including the Alaskan Arctic, Mono Lake and other sites in California, the Stehekin River in Whatcom County, Washington, and Georgia-Pacific mill among others as well as correspondence and reports from Mason’s sabbaticals and Fulbright travels. The Mason Education records also include slides and field notebooks from Mason's various research projects. Slides include images of people, landmarks, plants, and animals from Bellingham and his world travels. There are also images of theater works and other artistic projects. Locations of slides and field notebooks include: Alaska, Australia, Antarctica, South America, Africa, the Philippines, and Japan.
This collection also contains speeches, lectures, publications and letters of appreciation regarding Mason’s popular and dynamic traveling multi-media slideshows. The collection contains scripts and musical compositions from Friends of Fairhaven Theater productions in which Mason played the vital roles of producer, director, actor and musician. Writings and Art contain samples of Mason's creative writing, drawings, musings, and include several one-of-a-kind local gay publications.
Correspondence is generally about the creation of the College of Environmental Studies including information about the interdisciplinary studies between Biology/Fairhaven and Huxley.
The Collection of Aerial Photographs comprises over 30,000 individual images from aerial surveys conducted in different areas of the Pacific Northwest including the northwest counties and National Forest Lands of Washington State. The majority of images in the collection are from aerial surveys conducted by US government agencies, including the USDA Forest Service and Washington Department of Natural Resources. These include coverage of Whatcom County, the Mt. Baker National Forest and other National Forest and Parks lands in Washington. The collection also includes some coverage of other Washington counties and U.S. states. For example, a small group of images document survey work conducted for the Alaska-Canada Highway during the 1930s. The collection is a valuable resource for researchers interested in environmental history and change (including forestation, glaciation and waterways), and supports fields of inquiry relating to habitat restoration, urban growth studies and property history. Researchers should be aware that coverage for locations or flight surveys may not be comprehensive and that CPNWS cannot guarantee coverage and images for all areas of interest. In some cases, the collection may contain an index for a flight without any accompanying images (or vice versa).
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 4 photo index sheets. Township/Range marked. BBK-1GG through BBK-3GG.
Scale: 1:24,000;
Focal length 8.25”. Color and b/w. Includes 1 Skagit County image. Township and Range. Northwestern Washington, Enlargement of Whatcom County, Washington, includes Whatcom County, Washington, extension.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Duplicate indices in Folders 00 and WWW. BBK-1P through BBK-3P.
Scale: Unknown.;
The letter L appears to represent flight line numbers. Index map is dated 1975.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 thru 6 (of 6 sheets), appears to be some British Columbia, Canada and Skagit County. BBK-1B through BBK-6B.
Scale: unknown;
Numbered flight lines.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Whatcom County, Washington. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Two sheets (1 of 2, 2 of 2) + 3 duplicates of each sheet (one set is laminated).
Scale: 1:40,000;
Listed as Sheet 3 of 6.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Two sheets: second sheet details flights between Van Zandt, Washington and Mt. Baker. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 sheets + 3 duplicates of all 4 sheets (some revised in 1988).
Scale: 1:12,000;
3 of 5 sheets.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Two Sheets: 2 of 6 and 3 of 6.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 flight index sheets (1 of 2, 2 of 2), these include township and range, 3 duplicates of each sheet (one set is laminated).
Scale: 1:12,000;
Handwritten annotation: "S.O. Engineering." Map encapsulated February 2012.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
Hand-drawn on tracing paper. Flight lines and image numbers included + 2 photocopies of Mt. Baker area enlarged.
Scale: 1:126,720;
Flight line index and image numbers included, two pages of photocopied enlargements of Mt. Baker index area. The Chelan National Forest map in Folder NN continues lines of GS-CJ.
Scale: 1:47,200;
Folder includes eleven photocopied photo index sheets; handwritten on outside of folder "Quads for Mt. Baker, Mt. Shuksan, Hamilton, Lake Shannon, Marblemount, Copper Mountain a.k.a. Mt. Challenger."
Scale: Unknown.;
Flight line and image numbers included on 3 photocopied sheets.
Scale: 1: 15,840;
Film type: color. 3 copies of flight index map + 2 photocopied enlargements of Mt. Baker area.
Scale: 1:38,000;
Handwritten note that 17-8 and 17-9 are missing. ;
Scale: Unknown.;
Index map of flight lines.
Scale: Unknown.;
Hand-drawn on tracing paper. Includes two 2 photocopies showing enlargement of Mt. Baker area.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 4 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
5 sheets (sets of 2 and 3 sheets). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 3 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 sheets (2 sets of 2 sheets). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 3 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:23,600;
2 sheets (1 of 2, 2 of 2), these include township and range, 3 duplicates of each sheet (one set is laminated). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 3 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:58,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Flight line numbers included.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Flight line numbers included.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Flight line numbers included.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Flight line numbers included on 3 map sheets.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Flight line numbers included.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:70,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: Unknown.;
Large, hand-drawn map.
Scale: 1:30,000;
See also EEEE.
Scale: Unknown.;
Handwritten note on back: "From 1-168 to 5-167," Latitude and Longitude.
Scale: Unknown.;
Hand-drawn map.
Scale: Unknown.;
Scale: Unknown.;
Photostatic map with 2 different sets of flight lines (WFPA-66 and 626090).
Scale: 1:24,000;
Set of 2 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 5 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Nine photo-index sheets.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Scale: 1:24,000;
Photo stat index sheet plus aerial photographs of Bonney Lake, Washington (color).
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 10 photo indices.
Scale: Unknown.;
Hand-drawn flight lines on traced map.
Scale: Unknown.;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:24,000;
Sheet 1 of 1.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 index map sheets with flight lines (Revisions: 2-1983, 1-1984, 1-1985. some photos for this flight have non-corresponding flight numbers.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 index sheet.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 set of 2 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 4 sheets.
Scale: 1:24,000;
1 set of 1 sheet. Folder includes aerial photos of Columbia River and Toutle River, Washington, dated Aug. 9, 1981). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:24,000;
1 set of 2 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 traced map with flight lines hand-drawn.
Scale: 1:24,000;
1 set of 2 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
6 of 11 sheets (some dupl., some partials). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10 of 10 photo sheets.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 5 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 index sheet.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 index sheet. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 1 index sheet. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 set of 2 sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 5 sheets (no sheet 3 marked). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 3 sheets.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Pierce County, Washington: Anderson Is., Dupont, Steilacoom; University Place, Fircrest, Tacoma; American Lake, Steilacoom Lake, Lakewood. Photo marked King County, but are Pierce County, Washington. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
2 sets of 6 maps.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Hand-traced map with flight lines.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 4 sheets flight index.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 6 sheets. CWD-1R through CWD-5R.
Scale: Unknown.;
Handwritten annotation on photostat map.
Scale: 1:24,000;
Set of 5 sheets.
Scale: 1:27,700;
Mt. Baker Nat'l Forest photo index map in Folder G continues lines of GS-CJ.
Scale: 1:40,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Seems to duplicate Folder B, WWW.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index 3 of 5 (26 copies), 4 sheets (index maps).
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 9 sheets. AAS-1N through AAS-7N.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 5 and 6 of 11 only (multiple copies). ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:24,000;
3 Photo index sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
Set of 6 index map sheets.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 6 index map sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Set of 6 index map sheets. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:24,000;
Index map is for 1980, but annotations in blue are for 1982 flight.
Scale: Unknown.;
Hand-drawn map (color pencil) includes Columbia River
Scale: 1:15,840;
Sheet 10. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Sheet 3. ;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Sheets 5 and 9.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Sheet 13.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 4 sheets.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 1.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 1.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 1.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 4 sheets.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Sheets 1 and 2 of 2 (Front to Back, 2 copies + one photocopy); 1 Large map.
Scale: 1:500,000;
Scale: 1:24,000;
Scale: 1:18,500;
Scale: Unknown.;
Scale: Unknown.;
6 sheets of 16 (1, 2, 9, 10, 11, 16).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
6 sheets of 16 (4-7, 14, 15).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Set of 5 Sheets.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 4 and 5 of 21.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:47,200;
2 sheets (dupl.) Mono Craters, 1 sheet Merced Peak.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:47,000;
1 Sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:27,230;
1 sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 1 of 5.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 5 of 6.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:126,720;
1 Sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:62,500;
1 Sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 7 and 8 of 22.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 8.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 2 of 6.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:60,200;
Sheet NK 12-1.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 2 of 4.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 3 of 4.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 1 of 4.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:62,500;
Set of 4 sheets.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 3 and 4 of 4.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 5 of 9.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 2 of 5.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheets 3 and 4 of 4 (Section cut out of sheet 4).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
4 Sheets (sheets 1,2,5,6 of 9).
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 6 of 6.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
4 Sheets (sheets 3,4,5,6 of 12).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 6 of 6.;
Scale: 1:20,000;
6 Sheets (10, 13, 15 of 15 [2 copies each]). Have photos from 1963.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Sheet 11 of 11 (2 copies).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
2 Sheets (sheets 2 and 3 of 4).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
4 Sheets (sheets 8, 9, 10, 11, of 11).
Scale: 1:20,000;
2 Sheets (sheet 1 of 4, two copies but not identical).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 16 of 16).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 6 of 11).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:60,000;
5 Sheets (sheets 1,6,7,8 of 9 [two copies of sheet 1]).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:63,360;
3 Sheets (sheets 5, 6 and 7 of 8 [sheet 7 is technically in Arizona]).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 8 of 21).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 9 of 9).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:62,500;
4 Sheets (sheets Sugar House, Salt Lake City South, Midvale, Draper).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
4 Sheets (sheets 1, 4, 5, 6 of 6).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 4 of 4).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index sheets also in Folder F. 2 photocopied sheets (sheets 1 and 2 of 2).
Scale: 1:20,000;
2 Sheets (sheets 2 and 3 of 3).
Scale: 1:20,000;
4 Sheets (sheets 1, 3, 5, 6 of 6). Duplicates in Folder MM.
Scale: 1:20,000;
2 Sheets (sheets 1 and 3 of 4) See also Folders: B, OO, MM.
Scale: 1:20,000;
10 Sheets (1-11 of 11) (9 and 10 together).
Scale: 1:20,000;
1 Sheet (sheet 11 of 11).
Scale: 1:20,000;
3 Sheets (sheets 4, 6, 9 of 12).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:23,592;
1 Sheet.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
2 Sheets (sheets 19 and 20 of 20) Wind River Range.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:60,300;
1 Sheet - Wind River Range, Wyoming.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:60,200;
1 Sheet -Grand Tetons.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:50,000;
1 Sheet - Yellowstone Park.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: unknown;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 Sheets: all four quarter-sections of T. 32 N., R. 4 E.
Scale: 1:12,000;
3 Sheets: NW, SW and SE quarter-sections of T. 33 N., R. 4 E. (missing NE).
Scale: 1:12,000;
4 Sheets: all four quarter-sections of T. 34 N., R. 3 E.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Flight Index Map of Okanogan National Forest, Washington.
Scale: Approx: 1:12,000;
Forest Service map of Wenatchee National Forest.
Scale: 1:125,000 Index; 1:37,400 photos;
Scale: Unknown.;
Scale: 1:4,800;
No obvious flight markings. These do not appear to be index maps, but may be copies of Assessor's Office maps.
Scale: 1:2,400;
No obvious flight markings. These do not appear to be index maps, but may be copies of Assessor's Office maps.
Scale: 1:126,720;
See also in 'M'.
Scale: 1:1,200;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Indices: 2-8 of 8 (missing #1).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
Orthophoto map.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:62,100;
Job 3150.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:63,360;
;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:63,360;
Job 3150.
Scale: 1:12,000;
McDonald Tree Farm.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.;
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Scale: Unknown.;
Handwritten image numbers.
Scale: 1:15,840;
1 Photo flight index. Flight ran East to West.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index. (2 Copies).;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: Unknown.;
1 Photo flight index.;
Index only - No photos for this flight available.
Scale: 1:1 million;
2 Copies.
Scale: 1:1 million;
Sheet 1.
Scale: 1:1 million;
Sheet 2.
Scale: 1:1 million;
Scale: 1:1 million;
Scale: 1:12,000;
1 Photo flight index.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-165;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Includes Negatives for BBK-1B- 156 through 161.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 23-97;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Includes Negatives for BBK-2B- 52 through 53.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 98-122;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-59;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Includes Negatives for BBK-3B- 4 through 11.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 60-86;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 87-129;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 66-139;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 140-170;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 171-184;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 13-24, 58-67;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Some duplicates.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 87-113, 144-157;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-17, 20-43;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-47, 49-63, 67-75;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-12, 14-103, 106-179;
Scale: Unknown;
Numbered in bottom-left corner.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 180-359 missing some #s;
Scale: Unknown;
Numbered in bottom-left corner.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 360-416;
Scale: Unknown;
Numbered in bottom-left corner.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
190-22C-15;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2012, 2013, 2020, 2021, 2031;
Scale: Unknown;
Point Roberts, Washington; Enlargements of 2012, 2013, 2021, 2031 in Folder P40.;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 sheet;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-36 + 16 enlargements in FC63A;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 37-72;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 73-113;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-36;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 37-72 + enlargements of 59, 61, 63 in FC63A;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 73-113 + enlargements of 84, 86, 87, 89 in FC63A;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 114-150;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 151-185;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 186-208;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-36;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 37-72;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 73-113;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 114-129;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Folder OO.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-19, 21-41, 43;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-65;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 66-88;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 92-105;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 106-117;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 119-142;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 145-176;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 177-206;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 208-241 + 15 enlargements in FC63A;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 176-215;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 217-253;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 258-293;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 296-332;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-15;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-29;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 37-47;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 48-61;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 65-78;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 84-96;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 100-133;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 119-134;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 137-152;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 41-34C 15, 16, 18-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 43-35C 1, 3, 5, 8, 18-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 43-36C 5-13, 20-22 ;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 43-37B 45-48, 50-55;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 100-26D 11-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 190-22C-16/190-23C 3-5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 190-24C 3-5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 190-25C 10-21;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 235 44B-102;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Negatives: Line 43-36C 20-23 and Line 235-44B 101-102;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 4C 2-5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 5C 2-5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 10D 3-11;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 11E 3-12;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 12E 22-37;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 13 105-123, 125;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 14B 63-83;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 15B 54-75, 77;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 16A 128-136;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 16B 1-16;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 17C 73-84;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 17D 1-14;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 18B 130-137;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 18C 3-17;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 19A 124-133;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 19B 2, 4-18;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 20B 87-90;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 20C 1-21;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 21A 112-120;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 21B 1-21, 23;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 22B 1-23 ;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 23B 44, 46-47;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 23C 1-21;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 24C 8-21, 26-32;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 25 122-135, 139-145;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 26B 19-30;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 26C 1-15;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 27C 33-59;
Scale: Unknown;
Index photocopy map found in folder (1967?).;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 28 106-129;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 29 106-107, 109, 113-130;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 30B 4-17;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 31C 83-84;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 31D 1-13;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 33B 80;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 34B 76-77;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 36B 92-101;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 37C 32-40;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 38B 16-25;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 39B 27;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 41C 46-48;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 41D 2, 11, 18;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 42A 68;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 42B 7-8;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 43 90-91;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 44D 13-15;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 44E 8;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 45B-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 46A-19;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 47A-14;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 48C-15, 21;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 50B-1, 7, 15, 19, 28;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 52A-12, 15, 19, 34, 35;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 53-3;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 54-1, 20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 59-10;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-64-234;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-65-197;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-74-137;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-75-131, 132, 136;
Scale: 1:12,000;
T27N R9E (note on back);;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 13-50-406, 407, 411, 412;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-72-353;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-82-201;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 22-60-076, 077, 081, 084;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 22-62-039, 041;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 22-63-050, 051;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 23-58-183;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 23-59-264;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 27-58-038, 039;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 28-69-209;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 29-67-121;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 43-35C 10,15-17;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 43-36C 14-19;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6-2; 8-1; 9-4;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 179 - 60-67, 88-93, 106-112, 116-124;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available:
Additional Line/Image numbers: 179-1 (Negative);
Scale: Unknown;
Film Negative.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-8; 2-1 thru 2-4; 3-1 thru 3-5;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 215 photos;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-18 to 4-22; 5-23 to 5-25; 6-26 to 6-38;
Scale: 1:24,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 53, 55, 57, 59;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 17,19,21,22;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4 to 60 (even #s only);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 193-209 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 117-139 (odd #s), 140;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 76-90 (even #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 70, 71-99 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 64, 66, 68, 70;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 143-161 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 36-50 (even #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-38 (even #s), 39;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-63 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-27 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 33-60;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10-22;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 85-94;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-6, 60-64, 92-96;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-5, 60-69;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 74-82 (even #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 245-251 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 104-112 (even #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 65-73 (odd #s);
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 49-60;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 93-100;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 15-24;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-48, 73-76;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: See folder;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-5, 18-24, 49-61, 76-81;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 188-189;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 150-151, 180-181;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10-11;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10-11;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3N-148, 150, 151, 159-162; AAS-4N-8, 9, 10, 117, 118, 120;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1N-148, 149, 154; 2N-105-106;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-1 thru 5-10;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 132-139;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 151-157;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 75-80;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-24;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-8;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-1 thru 2-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-1 thru 4-16;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-13;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 83-100;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 31-39;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 8-1 thru 8-18;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 7-1 thru 7-9;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6-1 thru 6-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-1 thru 12-10;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 11-1 thru 11-10;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 13-1 thru 13-20;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 14-1 thru 14-19;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 16-1 thru 16-9;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 15-1 thru 15-8;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 9-1 thru 9-9;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10-1 thru 10-7;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 11-1 thru 11-6;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-1 thru 12-11;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 13-2 thru 13-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 14-1 thru 14-17;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10D 1-1 thru 1-9; 10D 2-1 thru 2-4;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-11;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-1 thru 4-11;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-1 thru5-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6-1 thru 6-13;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 7-1 thru 7-7;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 8-1 thru 8-7;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 9-1 thru 9-8;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1N-90 thru 1N-92; 2N-32 thru 2N-33; 2N-90 thru 2N-92;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5S-15, 17, 19; 6S-16, 17, 18, 19;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 112-120;
Scale: 1:34,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 130-137;
Scale: 1:34,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 145-150;
Scale: 1:34,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 164-170;
Scale: 1:34,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 177-183;
Scale: 1:34,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-8;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-1 thru 2-6;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-21;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-9;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-1 thru 4-11;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-1 thru 5-10;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-1 thru 2-21;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-13;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-13;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-10;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-11;
Scale: 1:12,000;
; Index in box 018;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-11;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-17;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 18-34;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 35-46;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-17;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 18-25;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 26-59;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 60-70;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 125, 126, 134;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 121, 136, 137;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-16 to 2-20; 3-20 to 3-33; 434 to 4-44;
Scale: 1:9,600;
; Index in box 019, 1 of 2 photo index sheets;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-34 thru 4-44;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-9;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 to 1-9; 2-10 to 2-16; 3-25;
Scale: 1:9,600;
; Index in box 019, 2 of 2 photo index sheets;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-10 thru 2-20;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-21 thru 3-33;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 100, 101, 128, 129;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-2 thru 1-4, 1-8 thru 1-15;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 86-90, 108-111, 113;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 01-07;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 01-06;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-8;
Scale: 1:10,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: G6 1-4; G7 1-4;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-14;
Scale: 1:24,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-11;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-1 thru 2-11;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-8;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-3 thru 1-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-3 thru 2-16;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6-1 thru 6-7, 6-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-1 thru 5-8, 5-13;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-17;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-4;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-4 thru 2-12;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-1 thru 4-3;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-9 thru 3-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-9 thru 4-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-1 thru 3-16;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-20;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-1 thru 2-14;
Scale: 1:9,600;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4 photos + [01-045-044];
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 + photocopies;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 10 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 27 photos (plus 3 photocopies);
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-8 thru 3-10;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
Includes Archie Shiels' correspondence.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 11 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 photo;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 photo;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 13 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 41 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 photo;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 160 photos (approx.);
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1A-1 thru 20A-9;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 4-9;
Scale: 1:17,000;
Index filed with photographs.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-117;
Scale: Unknown;
Index filed with photographs.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 36 photos;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1-3 thru 1-5-129;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: Uncounted;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 39-36;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-4 thru 1-15; 2-37 thru 2-48;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-5, 6, 44, 45, 63, 64, 113, 114, 122, 123;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1 photo;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-11 (two sets);
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-56-97 thru 1-56-155;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-57-165 thru 1-57-182;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-57-273 thru 1-57-283;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-50-213 thru 2-50-240;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-55-87 thru 2-55-142;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-40-127 thru 3-40-132;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-41-256 thru 3-41-262;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-45-54 thru 3-45-78;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-42-119 thru 4-42-129;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-43-251 thru 4-43-270;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-48-205 thru 5-48-231;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-49-86 thru 5-49-112;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4-46-121 thru 4-46-126, 129-132;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 6-47-90 thru 6-47-113;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 7-44-130 thru 7-44-151;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 9-51-84 thru 9-51-137;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 11-53-279 thru 11-53-334;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 11-54-142 thru 11-54-197;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-48-218 thru 12-48-244;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-49-175 thru 12-49-209;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-50-139 thru 12-50-172;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-52-83 thru 12-52-138;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 17-57-2 thru 17-57-20;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 17-58-105 thru 17-58-146;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 18-46-324 thru 18-46-338;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-43-146 thru 19-43-150;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-43-152 thru 19-43-176;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-44-108 thru 19-44-136;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-44-142 thru 19-44-145;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-45-73 thru 19-45-102;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-46-38 thru 19-46-69;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19-47-1 thru 19-47-34;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-40-161 thru 20-40-173;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-41-101 thru 20-41-124;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 20-42-1 thru 20-42-30;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 27-48-9 thru 27-48-18, 20-22;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: PR1 2 thru 19;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PR2 2 thru 15;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PR3 4 thru 14;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PR8-5and6; PR10-2; PR11 2,3,4; PR11A 2,3,4; PR12A-9;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-81 thru 5-83; 6-64 thru 6-65;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 172 31;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 279-16 and 279-17;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-21 thru 5-23; 6-25 thru 6-31; 7B-20 thru 7B-29; 8-28 thru 8-37; 9A-34 thru 9A-40; 10-37 thru 10-40; 11-40;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46A-35 thru 46A-48; 47-43 thru 47-50;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NL-5F-27;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: NL-5F-28; NL-5F-29;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 31 copies;
Scale: Unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-1GG-9 (17 copies);
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-1GG-10 (17 copies);
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-1GG-31 and 32;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-1GG-80 and 81;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 235 44B-102 (19 copies) and Similar flight line (17 copies);
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-3B-112 (34 copies);
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-3B-113 and 114;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19 copies;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available:
Additional Line/Image numbers: 43-36C-20 (20 copies) and 43-36C-21 (17 copies);
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 43-36C-22 and 43-36C-23;
Scale: Unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: Unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BBK-3P-84 and BBK-3P-119;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:30,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:30,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 15T; 16T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 17T; 18T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 18T; 19T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 19T; 20T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 22T; 23T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 26T; 27T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 28T; 29T; 30T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 30T; 31T; 32T; 33T; 34T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: B-1 thru B-11; 11-15;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2FF;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3FF;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4FF;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 1;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 2;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 3;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 4;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-10;
Scale: 1:17,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 11-19;
Scale: 1:17,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 20-29;
Scale: 1:17,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 30-42;
Scale: 1:17,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:60,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:60,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5-25-9; 5-25-10; 7-15-63;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:38,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:38,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:38,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:38,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 202-207;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 9W-34;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3B-1;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 30C-1; 31A-3;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 12-12 thru 12-22;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44B-94; 44B-95;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Miscellaneous;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4 photos;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:48,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: 1:12,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4 photos;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:40,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Scale: 1:30,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:30,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:30,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Film Negatives.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Film Negatives.;
Index available: Yes
Scale: Unknown;
Film Negatives.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Film Negatives.;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:32,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3-3 and 5-3;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:6,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5R-;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4GG;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-24;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4M;
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Index sheet of EMM photos compiled by Map Library.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-5b;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 6-8a;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 9-11;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 12-14;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 15-17;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 17-19;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 20-22;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 23-26;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 27-30;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 31-33b;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 34-36;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 37-38;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-4;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 5-9;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 10-14;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 15-21;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 22-28;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 29-31, 33-34;
Scale: 1:15,840;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:20,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: 1:40,000;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:3,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-3;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 4-7;
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines (strips) 1-5, 5RE;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-26;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 15-17;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Photo Negative behind photos.;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
NW-C-76 10A-63 in back of folder.;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:6,000; 1:12,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:12,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 0-4;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 5-10;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 11 and Duplicates;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 1-6;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Lines 7-8;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Index available.
Scale: 1:27,700;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-69 thru 44-90;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 2;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-91 thru 44-149;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 2;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-51 thru 47-140;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 3;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-150 thru 55-165;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 3;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 44-166 thru 44-199;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 4;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-02 thru 45-51;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 5;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-52 thru 45-67;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 5;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-68 thru 45-89;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 6;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-90 thru 45-121;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 15;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-123 thru 45-169;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 16;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-170 thru 45-186;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 15;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 45-187 thru 45-208;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 14;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-02 thru 46-24;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 10;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-25 thru 46-39;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 13;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-40 thru 46-60;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 12;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-61 thru 46-81;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 11;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-96 thru 46-167;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 14;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46-168 thru 46-196;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 9;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-03 thru 47-15;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 12;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-16 thru 47-31;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 8;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-32 thru 47-50;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 7;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 47-141 thru 47-213;
Scale: 1:27,700;
Line 6;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 1;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 2;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 3;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 4;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 5;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 6;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 7;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Line 8;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3JJ 240-241;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 110.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CFF-3H-173;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CFF-3H-174, 175;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CFF-1P-126;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CFF-1P-127, 128;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CIV-17G-94, 95, 96;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CIV-6R-43;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CIV-6R-44, 45;
Scale: 1:21,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: YB-6G-17;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: YB-6G-18, 19;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPD-7H-109;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPD-7H-110;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CTU-7H-40;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CTU-7H-41, 42;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ATS-6P-57;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ATS-6P-58, 59;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CG-1HH-123;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CG-1HH-124;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CG-1HH-125;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BWQ-1HH-88;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BWQ-1HH-89;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BFJ-1FF-48;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BFJ-1FF-49;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BFJ-1FF-122;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BFJ-1FF-123;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-5T-123;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-5T-124;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-5T-125;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-5T-126;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPB-6H-110;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPB-6H-111, 112;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPU-8K-79;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPU-8K-80;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPU-8K-81;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPU-8K-82;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-1P-131;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-1P-132;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-2P-103;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-2P-134;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WF-2V-37;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WF-2V-38;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WF-2V-50;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WF-2V-51;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AVL-2T-147;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AVL-2T-148, 149;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AZR-5N-197;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AZR-5N-198;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHV-1T (various odd numbers from 3-163);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NV-3T and 4T (various numbers);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 111.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NV-4T and NV-5T (various numbers);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 111.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DXU-4N-67;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DXU-4N-68;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DXU-4N-69;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMT-2DD-222;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMT-2DD-223;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMT-2DD-224;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMW-8R-8;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMW-8R-9, 10;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ARK-1H-95;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ARK-1H-96, 97;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ARR-8EE-39;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ARR-8EE-40;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACL-2HH-112;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACL-2HH-113;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACL-2HH-113;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACL-2HH-114;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BAH-4M-7;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BAH-4M-8, 9;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PZ-1W-145;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PZ-1W-146;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PZ-1W-148;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PZ-1W-149;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: PZ-1W-145 thru 151;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: QH-3FF-110;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: QH-3FF-111;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: QH-3FF-112;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHG-4D-72;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHG-4D-73;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-1P-221;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-1P-222;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-4P-167;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-4P-168;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-5P-54;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-5P-55;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-5P-122;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DAS-1M-201;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DAS-1M-202, 203;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DGG-7DD-150;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DGG-7DD-151;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DGG-7DD-152;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHV-2T ;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHV-2T ;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHV-3T ;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHV-5T ;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPQ-8K-78 thru 82;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPQ-8K-122 thru 125;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BDJ-3-various;
Scale: Unknown;
Road map of area in folder, no flight lines.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BDJ-1EE and BDJ-2EE;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BDW-3HH-200 ,201 ,202;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-1P;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 103.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-1P;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 103.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XU-3P-33;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BIQ-14HH-211, 212- 213;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WN-2EE-100 thru 103;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WE-2V and WE-3V;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WE-1R and W0-2T;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AVB-1GG-179, 180, 181;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: TQ-1T-34 thru 38;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 288 thru 294, 341 thru 344; 528 thru 532, 540 thru 547;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 8986, 8987, 9559, 9560;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 296 thru 302;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMT-2DD-221 thru 224;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 104.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CMZ-3DD-63 thru 64;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ARR-8EE-37 thru 40;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 105.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DNE-4EE-219 thru 222;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOQ-1P;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOQ-2P;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOQ-3P;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACG-1P;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACG-2P;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACG-3P;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACL-2HH-112 thru 115;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 105.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 112 for Wilmington Area, NC.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 112 for Wilmington Area, NC.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3JJ and 4JJ;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 100.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CPU-1BB-36 thru 43;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: HL-4N-97;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-2011;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2266 and 2267; 2309 thru 2315;
Scale: 1:60,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AIN-1N-70 thru 77;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AIN-2N-10 thru 16;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPD-5DD 2 thru 4;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DPD-6DD 100 thru 103;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DEVA-2M, 3M (Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CTT-1JJ 246 thru 248;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CZA-3AA-94 thru 96;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ATJ-4AA-163 thru 171;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ATG-5HH-174 thru178;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BWQ-1HH-86 thru 89;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 101.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BWQ-2AA-(various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 101.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BXF-2DD-269 thru 271;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: SK-1JJ-(various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: SK-3JJ-111 thru 113;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BFJ-1FF-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: QQ-5GG-116 thru 118;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DH-2DD-32 thru 34;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ST-1EE-209 thru 211;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: EH-3GG-128 thru 131;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: S4407 and S4408;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AHR-2T thru AHR-5T (Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-4T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-5T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-6T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-7T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AJO-1DD-202 thru 205;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See also: Box 102.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NV-1T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 104.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NV-2T-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 104.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACK-1P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACK-3P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACK-4P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACN-1P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACN-2P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACN-3P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ACN-4P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AOQ-1N-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 109 for Wilmington Area, NC.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AOQ-2N-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 109 for Wilmington Area, NC.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AOQ-3N-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 109 for Wilmington Area, NC.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOS-1P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOS-2P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOS-2P-(Various);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOS-3P-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
Some mis-labelled 'BOR', but are in sequence with other BOS photos.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BOS-3P-(Various);
Scale: Unknown;
Two BOU photos in back of folder: BOU-3P-48 and 217.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L4687 and L4688;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: NP-2T and NP-3T;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3 Oblique views;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-61 thru 1-664;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: APS-1HH-153 thru 155;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: CDV-4EE-115 thru 119;
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Includes 1 color photo which looks to be more recent.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DJU-1P, 4P, 5P (Various);
Scale: Unknown;
See also: Box 106.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 38 and 39;
Scale: 1:6,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: DZG-4JJ-5, 6, 7;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: AMD-6R-160, 161, 162;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: BHL-2HH-43 thru 46;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: WX-1DD-37 thru 40, 101 thru 103;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: XA-81, 82, 83;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 478-112 (3 copies) and 478-112 (1 copy);
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-17 thru 1-87 (missing 1-46);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-90 thru 1-172 (missing 1-132);
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-219 thru 1-240; 1-247 thru 1-257; 1-289 thru 1-306;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-2 thru 2-20; 2-27 thru 2-36; 2-52 thru 2-68; 2-77 thru 2-103;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2-104 thru 2-116; 2-147 thru 2-176; 2-191 thru 2-206;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various photo negatives;
Scale: Unknown;
626090 in multiple locations (photos and negs.).;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various photo negatives;
Scale: Unknown;
626090 in multiple locations (photos and negs.).;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: Various photo negatives;
Scale: Unknown;
626090 in multiple locations (photos and negs.).;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-1 thru 1-130;
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-1EE-2 thru 20; 23 thru 43; 52 thru 65; 94 thru 123;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-1EE-124 thru 157; 159 thru 164; 185 thru 211;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-2EE-1 thru 13; 39 thru 54; 75 thru 123;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-2EE-124 thru 166; 174 thru 200;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-2EE-201 thru 224; 238 thru 257; 259 thru 285;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: ENJ-3EE-4 thru 34; 50 thru 64;
Scale: 1:20,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1-66 (some duplicates);
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L1 1-32; L2 1-16;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L2 17-32; L3 1-30;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L4 1-31; L5 1-24;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L5 25-33; L5A 1-7; L6 1-34;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L7 1-33; L8 1-29;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L9 1-33; L10 1-31;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L11 1-35; L12 1-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L12 21-34; L13 1-33;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L14 1-36; L15 1-20;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L15 21-33; L16 1-35;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: L17 1-33; L18 1-38;
Scale: unidentified;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Dates on folders often listed as 1943 but may vary (circa 1940s). Not necessarily inclusive.;
Index available: Yes, in folder
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Scale: 1:20,000;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers:
Scale: Unknown;
10-40-2E; 11-40-2E; 14-40-2E; 15-40-2E; 16-40-2E; 21-40-2E; 22-40-2E; 23-40-2E; 26-40-2E; 27-40-2E; 28-40-2E; 32-40-2E; 34-40-2E; 35-40-2E; Dates on photos often listed as 1986, but may vary. Not necessarily inclusive.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers:
Scale: 1:24,000;
2-40-3E; 3-40-3E; 4-40-3E; 5-40-3E; 9-40-3E; 10-40-3E; 14-40-3E; 15-40-3E; 16-40-3E; 17-40-3E; 21-40-3E; 22-40-3E;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
includes Ross Lake, Eastern Washington;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 46B thru 59D Various;
Scale: Unknown;
Photos are 24”x 24”. Not necessarily inclusive.;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 1P-30; 3P-11;
Scale: Unknown;
2 photos.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 106-66C-35;
Scale: Unknown;
1 photo.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 5;
Scale: Unknown;
With NASA index pages listed in Index Spreadsheet EEEE) Includes flight summary report.;
Index available.
Scale: 1:24,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: 1:24,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 16;
Scale: Unknown;
No Township/Range on photographs;
Index available.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3 Photo maps 4, 7, 8 of 8 (w/dupl., 8 total);
Scale: 1:25,000;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 3;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Additional Line/Image numbers: 2;
Scale: unidentified;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 161-200.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 128-177.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 61-126.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 121-127.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 5-49.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 51-119.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 80-169.;
Index available.
Scale: Unknown;
Approximate image numbers: 12-78.;
Index available.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Additional Line/Image numbers: 4;
Scale: 1:25,000;
Sheet 1977 IV SE AMS Series V891 andV091C; 4 Aerial photos (65-68).;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: unidentified;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
T38and40 Range 3E (Various sections);
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
T38-41 Ranges 1W through7E;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
T40NR3E; T36 through T41 R3E through 10E;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
T37 through T40; Range 3W to 6E; Includes Pt. Roberts, Washington; perhaps Skagit County.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
Horrible condition. Includes some topo maps.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
Extensive annotations; enlargements of photos in Box 007, folder 2.;
Photographs only (no index available)
Scale: Unknown;
T40 Ranges 26-27E;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
Map showing general area and Latitude and Longitude around Zion National Park.;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
Scale: Unknown;
T22N R4W;
See Series I description for available flight indices.
The O.C. Scudder photographs document people, scenes and structures throughout the Bellingham area and Washington State. Subjects include construction of the Mt. Baker theater, Chuckanut Drive, Deception Pass, North Cascades wilderness areas, the Northern Grocery Company building, and various private residences.
The Union Printing Company records document the establishment and growth of this printing and binding operation based in present-day Bellingham, Washington. Company records span the period 1871 to 1971, with the bulk dated from 1924 to 1954. The collection comprises administrative, financial, personnel and property records. Administrative records include articles of incorporation, while financial records document the company's business interactions with local individuals and companies. Personnel records include names of the individuals employed by the Union Printing Company. Property records reflect the company's acquisition of land and assets in Whatcom and Skagit Counties, including those of the La Conner Mail newspaper.
The Washington State Good Roads Association Records document the activities of the Washington State Good Roads Association (WSGRA) along with the North End Improvement Council (NEIC). These records also have some material from the Kitsap County Good Roads Association and the North Olympic Chamber of Commerce. The dates of the collection span from 1910-2005 and comprise three linear feet (6 boxes). Records include early and subsequent by-laws of the WSGRA, articles of association, a history of the organization, materials from conventions attended and organized, minutes, agendas, rollcalls and other information of some of the executive and annual member meetings; membership lists and profiles; financial records reflecting collection of membership dues and convention planning and execution; correspondence regarding membership, legislative activity, lobbying efforts, and inter-organizational relations; activities information including newsletters, pamphlets, and lobbying; newspaper clippings referring to the organization or road building; and some undated photographs. The NEIC records include by-laws, meeting minutes and proceedings, bank statements and financial quarterly statements, and correspondence. There is also some correspondence from the Kitsap County Good Roads Association, some subject file records from the North Olympic Chamber of Commerce, and some pamphlets and statements from other Good Roads Associations across the country.
This is a collection of microfilmed copies of oral history interview transcripts. The interviews were conducted by the Skagit County Historical Society between 1962 and 1979. Topics covered include social life, historical change, politics, agriculture, fishing, and timber.
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading, Schools, Anacortes, Edison. 
Notes: Two tapes and one transcript. 
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Fir Island, Brown's Slough, Polson Farm
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Telephone Co. - owner/operator/repairman/lineman
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Homesteading, Fir Island, came west in 1895
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Fredonia, Whitney, March's Point, Indians
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript, Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Birdsview, Concrete, Equality Colony
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Indians, Sedro-Woolley, to Skagit in 1880
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Hamilton, Schools, Disease, Churches, Rivers
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, Riverside, Railroad, Maritime
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Edison area, Edison Catholic Church
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, First Baptist Church, B. N. L. Davis
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Avon, Homesteading, 1890s Depression
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Pleasant Ridge, Fir Island, LaConner
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Notes: One tape and transcript including interview and instructions on running tape machine, the latter only on tape
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Padilla, Florence, LaConner, Maritime
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Midwifery, Hotels, LaConner, Schools, Indians
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Homesteading, Coupeville, Mt. Vernon
Notes: Two tapes and one transcript
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Two tapes and one transcript
Format: Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Notes: Included on last half of tape "b"; not transcribed
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Pioneer nurse of the Skagit Valley
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Reel-to-reel (time not listed)
Subjects: Whidbey Island, Grandfather came west in 1845
Format: Transcript (7 pages), Cassette (25 min.), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history
 Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (162 pages), Cassette (7 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Edison, Gilkey Towing, Hunting, Wobblies, Sporting girls of Edison, Card game dealer in Skagit County, Founding of Bow Hill, Gumboat Jimmy, One-eyed Mary, Lucille - Anacortes madam, Equality, Colony, Mining, Ox logging, Rum running
Notes: Three tapes and four transcripts, including four interviews
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (59 pages), Cassette (1 hour 40 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early history of Anacortes, Canning, Canneries, Traps, Fishing, Fish pirates, Shingle Mills
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (4 pages), Cassette (30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Granddaughter of pioneer John Pike (of Seattle), Columbia School (attended), Early Guemes, Eden Ranch life, Recipes for smoking salmon
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (8 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Anacortes, School teacher, Chasing fires, Father ran cannery where she worked as a child
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (10 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Anacortes, School teacher in Anacortes, University of Washington physics degree, Father ran lumber mill and was a well known safety engineer
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (26 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Anacortes, Childhood at Point Roberts, Guemes, Samish Island, Edison, Chinese, Holidays
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (26 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: moved to Skagit County in 1923, Immigration from Missouri, Indian life, Colville Indian Reservation, Life on a stump ranch
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (89 pages), Cassette (4 hours 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Skagit Valley, Pole logging, Rodeos, Cowboys, Pioneer home/family life, Homesteading in Alberta, Montana
Notes: Two tapes and three transcripts, dates don't quite match
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (32 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Equality Colony, Gilkey's, Edward P. Morrow's house, Bellingham [Noram?], Cooking, Came from Eastern Tennessee
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (78 pages), Cassette (6 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Coming upriver, Homesteading, Goodell's Landing, Ruby Creek washout, Miner's Hotel, D. Kinsey, Early mining, Family history
Notes: Three tapes and two transcripts, interviewee restrictions lifted
tape only
Format: Transcript (39 pages), Cassette (1 hour 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Diking, Conn School, Skagit Flats, Husband at Neah Bay and in service of Kaiser Wilhelm
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (3 pages), Cassette (3 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Anacortes, Swedish families, Chinese in the canneries
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (42 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Edison, Parents, Indians, Graveling roads, Farm life, Edison Bank Robbery
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (18 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early telephone operator, grocery store owner, Coming west from Iowa, Seattle fire of 1889, Early remembrances of Seattle and Everett
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (17 pages), Cassette (30 min on side 2 of RIII-55), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: West from Arkansas in 1917, D. Kinsey portrait, Clearing for farm in Lyman, Husband was a bucker
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (21 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Running egg farm while husband was away, Tug boating, Oyster business, Atlanta settlement, Samish Island
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Indians, Cannery work, entertainment, Gaches mansion, Childhood on Fir Island, LaConner, Basket Socials
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (21 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Early Samish, Threshing, Sack sewer, Working on an orchard farm
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (57 pages), Cassette (1 hour 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading, Schooling, Legislative career
Notes: One tape and two transcripts, interviewee restrictions lifted
tape only
Format: Transcript (64 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Rockport, Upper Skagit River Area
Notes: One tape and three transcripts, dates don't match
Restrictions: none
Format: Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Wagon maker apprentice, Shipyard work in Holland, Immigration after WWII to Canada - then to US
Notes: not transcribed
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (41 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Farming in Edison, Norwegian community, Cultural development of Norwegian people in the US
Notes: Interviewee restrictions - see authorization
Restrictions: tape only
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Pressentin family hotel, Early Rockport
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (17 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Edison's first telephone operator, Early Edison area
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (66 pages), Cassette (2 hours 40 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Marine, Policeman in Pike Street Market during Prohibition and the Depression, Bartender, Boston
Notes: Two tapes and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (17 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Mills, Injuries and accidents, Sawyer, First truck driver to bring in 40-lb crates of tree-ripened fruit to the Skagit Valley
Format: Transcript (40 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early threshing around the Samish Flats, Bow, Use of donkeys in the woods, Logging accidents, Immigration trains
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (39 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Cattle ranching, Trapping, WWI, Early Oregon wheat farming
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Early lime kilns, Roche Harbor, Mills and fish plants of Anacortes, Ice creamery and snack bar
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (31 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Bayview and its settlers, Padilla, Taught in a one-room schoolhouse at Padilla, Teaching, Schooling, University of Washington, Indians at Bayview
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (10 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Music, Education, Theater in Anacortes, Silent movies, Indian music transcription
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (56 pages), Cassette ( 2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading on the Upper Skagit, Early Schools, School teacher for 50 years, Horses, Farm life
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (41 pages), Cassette (3 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Sailboat Katy Thomas, Built by father and uncles, used to smuggle in Chinese and Opium
Notes: Two tapes and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (39 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Samish Island, Homesteading, Schools, Tugboating, Oystering, Pilings for dikes, Booming to Edison from Gilkeys, Body hunt in the wreck of the Bahada
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (58 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Tugboating on the Skagit River, Indians, The Skagit River itself
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (53 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early logging, Equipment and camera carrier for D. Kinsey, Fiddling during the Depression, Donkey engineer for thirty years.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (31 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early School teacher in Skagit Valley, WWII POW in Germany
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (42 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Early business ventures, Stage company, Automobile dealerships, Store owner, Moonshining
Restrictions: tape only
Format: Transcript (23 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Early Marblemount, Schools, Working on the dam
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (68 pages), Cassette (2 hours 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Pile driving for Fidalgo Island Packing Co., Working on a fish tender, Gilkeys, Red Reece, Rum running, Fish Pirates, Chinese, Fisherman's Packing Corporation, Guemes Island, Cod fishing, Guemes Ferry, Charlie Cann, Sporting Girls
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (26 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Homesteading, Early Guemes, Childhood on Guemes, Canneries of Anacortes, Afraid of the Chinese that worked in the boarding house kitchens.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (43 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Logging, Donkeys, Rigging, Early Hamilton, Homesteading at Hamilton.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (30 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Logging, Rockport, Early homestead on the Skagit River at Rockport, Came west when 3 days old
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (101 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Farming, Hunting, Horses, Food, Crops, Tools, The Skagit River, Recipes, Cures, Moonshining, Stills, Prohibition, Moonshine recipes.
Notes: One tape and three transcripts 
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (24 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Midwifery, Early Marblemount, Family life, Childhood on the Upper Skagit River
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Reel-to-reel (45 min)
Subjects: Life in the Equality Colony, Getting his first job in a mill, Being on Public Assistance in 1915, Indians, Early Bow-Edison area
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (23 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Farming, Schooling, Pleasant Ridge, Childhood in Ridgeway, Horses, Parents were from England, Father was Jeremiah Thompson, cf. 1906 History of Skagit and Snohomish Counties
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (6 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Growing up in Sauk Valley region
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (27 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Tugboating on the Skagit River, Captain Elwell, Childhood on a stump farm in Burlington
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (34 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Morrison Mill, Fidalgo Lumber and Box Company
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (18 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Saw filing, Bucking, Coming west from Nebraska
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (12 pages), Reel-to-reel (45 min)
Subjects: Early Clear Lake area, Childhood years at Clear Lake, Related to the Kimbles (Mt. Vernon founders)
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (25 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Coming west, Early Skagit Valley History, Early childhood.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Detailed description of working on early mail boats that ran to the San Juan Islands, Anacortes Mariners Pageant, Chinese
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (80 pages), Cassette (3 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading on the Skagit River, First set nets on the river, Joe Young, French Canadian, Shingle bolter
Notes: One tape and two transcripts, dates don't match
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (55 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours 15 min)
Subjects: Fishing the North Fork of the Lower Skagit River
Notes: Two tapes and two transcripts, dates don't match
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (39 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Barber history (52 years), Singing for the dances in the 1920s, Experience with the Tarheels, Early Mt. Vernon, Logging camp adventures
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (32 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Rockport, Homesteading, Logging, Heavy machinery on the dam, Moonshining, Work ethics and unionization, Donkeys and steam engines
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Bay View area, Some information on Alaska
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (38 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading, Five years on the Sauk River
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (38 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Columbia School, Rum running, Hobo camp, Little Chicago, Squealer Mathison, Depression, Food Riot, 1916 Flu epidemic, Codfish schooner Fanny Dutard
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (16 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Diking, Nursery work, Early Fir Island
Restrictions: tape only
Format: Transcript (66 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Settling in LaConner, Sterling, Mt. Vernon, Early bicycles, Ford machine shop, 42 gears, Skagit snag boats, Steam River, Snags, Accidents
Notes: One tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (33 pages), Cassette 1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Anacortes glass factory, Anacortes Water, Light, and Power Company engineer, Early schooling, Saw mills
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (21 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading, O'Brien family, Marblemoount, Post mistress for twenty years
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (number of pages not listed), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Indian history, language, and songs
Format: Transcript (20 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Equality Colony, Farming, Blanchard area
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (43 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Skagit Indians, Pioneer Jackman, Tribal culture and history, Shaker church, Indian burial, Herbal cures, Marriage of Marjorie Voth's grandmother
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (57 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early diking, Floods, Farming, Circuses, Working for the visiting shows in Mt. Vernon
Notes: One tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (31 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: History of the Cement Company in Concrete, 'Pegleg' Everett
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (23 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Coming west from North Carolina, Early Sedro-Woolley, Early widowhood, Nine children
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (35 pages), Cassette (45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Discussion of John Barbarovich, early settler, Farming on Sinclair Island
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (182 pages), Cassette (6 hours 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Concrete, Packers, Indians, Shakers, Gambling, Bars, Sporting Girls, Cock fights, Politics, Hunting, Shaker church, Indian dugouts, Moonshining, The concrete plant, Bootleging
Notes: four tapes and five transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (21 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Early farming, Threshing, Diking, Steamboats, LaConner area
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (31 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: West from Tennessee, Pleasant Ridge School, Early LaConner, Carpentry, Dressmaking
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (25 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Goat Island, Fort Whitman, Transportaiton to and from school and church by boat, Early LaConner, WWI, WWII
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (61 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Oxen and horse logging, Donkeys in logging, Saw filing, Social security, Labor unions, Organization of the IWW
Notes: two tapes and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (45 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Flood of 1932, Diking commissioner, Early farming, Clearing land on Fir Island, Norwegian community
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (26 pages), Cassette, Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Equality Colony, Edison school, Basketball and track teams, Logging cook, Flunkey
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (41 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Food, Healing, Living, Grandmother's role as a teacher, Boarding at the Tulalip Indian School, Face and body painting, Seeking the Holy Spirit
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (6 pages), Cassette (30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Logging, Pharmacy
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Cassette (2 hours 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Coming west from North Carolina to Rockport, Welcomed by Skagit Bill, Sporting houses of Concrete 
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (16 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Cedardale, Loading hay into the barn, IWW and their effects on logging
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (43 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours 30 min)
Subjects: Arrival in Concrete, Working on the Baker River and Shuksan Railroad for the Concrete plant, working in the woods and for the Forest Service, Mining, Prospecting, Forest fires, Trail work
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (71 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Mill accidents, Japanese snubbers, Lumber piler, Early Edison, Norwegian community, Riding rails with an IWW card, Politics in his and his children's lives (Duane)
Notes: Two tapes and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (70 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: History of the Finnish settlement, Lake McMurray area, Neighbors, Scandalous school teachers, Farming, Logging, Saunas
Notes: one tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (35 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Immigration from Sweden, Early farming on the Skagit Valley Flats, Depression years, Farm machinery and technology
Notes: Editor's note: the first part of interview RIII-129 is on side 2 of this tape (Carl Anderson)
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Harmony School, Childhood spent in Skagit County, Early dairy farming, Hop houses, Farm technology, Migrant Indians
Notes: Editor's note: the first part of interview RIII-129 is on side 2 of this tape (Hedlund/Anderson)
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (66 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours 30 min)
Subjects: Cod fishing, the Wawona schooner of the Robinson Fish Company of Anacortes in the 1930s, Details of the ship, Dory, How to fish, Wildlife, Crew, Captain
Notes: Two tapes and transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (62 pages), Cassette (3 hours 20 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Equality Colony, Julia Haroldson, Early Edison, Samish Island Murder, Father was the cook in a logging camp on Samish Island
Notes: two tapes and three transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (24 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Origins of the Ervine and Sharpe families, Teaching at the Rosario school, Sharpe settlement on Fidalgo Island
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (25 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Rockport area, Farming, Schools
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (7 pages), Reel-to-reel (45 min)
Subjects: Early LaConner, Farming, School teaching, Cokedale school, Bellingham Normal
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (29 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Logging, Father ran the mill, Childhood years in Montbourne-Big Lake area
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (30 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: IWW, Finnish settlement, Laplanders, Sumas socialism
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Edison history (a great deal), Dances, Events, Pregnancy
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Oxen logging, Skid road, Dogfish oil
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (33 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Thornwood Logging Camp, Growing up in logging camps, Music in the camp, Cooking for the men, Death of high rigger husband
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (39 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Fish traps, Fishing, Midwifery, Swedish immigrants, Women gillnetters, Crab fished to send daughter to college
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (41 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Burden's hop farm on March's Point, Basket socials, Harry Rickaby, Minnie Burden
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 45 min)
Subjects: Preserving foods, Home remedies for burns and other ailments, Early fishing, Family life, Recipes, the Luvera grocery store
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (22 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Anacortes, Schools, Fourth of July celebrations
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (48 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Fish trapping for 18 years, Mail boat through the San Juans, Rum runners, boat building, Reef net boats, History of logging wheels at the Skagit County Historical Museum in LaConner
Format: Transcript (47 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Logging, Railroad engineer for the English Logging Company, General explanation fo railroad terminology, Identified several pictures taken by D. Kinsey
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (34 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Bayview, Logging in Bayview, The English Logging Company, Sporting houses of Anacortes and Sedro-Woolley, Boats
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (64 pages), Cassette (2 hours 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Fish pirating, Bootlegging, Rum smuggling, Cannery work, Fishing, Mike Demopolis, Anna Curtis
Notes: two tapes and transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (29 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Fishing at Neah Bay, Grandfather Beale was the first settler of Fidalgo Island 185?, 40 years at the Anacortes post office
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (8 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Mostly about Yugoslavia, Receiving naval architect training in Yugoslavia, Building family shipyard, Shipyard under communism, Discussion of boats recently built
Notes: Tape is in Slavonian
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (53 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Swan Bjerstedt's (his father) homesteading on Oly Marsh, Diking, Draining, Horse logging, Farming the peat bog flats, Sporting houses of Sedro-Woolley
Notes: one tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (16 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Early Whitney area, Childhood years at Whitney, Fourth of July celebration spent in Anacortes, Homesteading in Alberta
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (52 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Growing up at Van Horn, Working at the Depot's restaurant, Phone company, Nell Quackenbush, Floods of the Skagit River
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (23 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Superintendent of the English Logging Company
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (32 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Equality Colony, Box socials, Homesteading in Alger
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (20 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Childhood at Skiyou, Ran the dance hall and store at Marblemount, Bought and ran the old Pressentin Hotel
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript 56 pages), Cassette (2 hours 20 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early farming, Homesteading, Dairy breeding, Diking, Draining
Notes: two tapes and transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (11 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Telephone operator in Burlington in 1916, Worked during WWI in a sawmill with other women
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Munks family, RN training, Earlier settlers of the Similk area, Fourth of July celebrations in Anacortes
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (4 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Floods, Diking, Draining, Farming, Holsteins
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (52 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Logging, Lokey firing, Running donkey, Card rooms, Bootlegging
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (38 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Working as a lumber grader, the Anacortes Lumber and Box Company, the WPA, Wobblies, Beekeeping
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (28 pages), Reel-to-reel (2 hours)
Subjects: Prohibition, Tennessee immigrants, Hound dogs
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (115 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Ginnett homestead on Fidalgo Island, the Western Union, Mining, Bootlegging, Anacortes booms and busts, Indians, Rosario beach, Canneries, Shipbuilding
Notes: one tape and four folders containing transcripts, 2 copies of T 1 a, b 
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (53 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading on the flats, Avon, Pleasant Ridge, Early farming, Diking, Draining, Horses, Milk route, Machinist in Everett, Witness to Verona and Wobbly massacres
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (30 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: Sid Chee, Chinese, Robinson's Salmon Cannery, Chinese cannery workers, Early Anacortes, Salina, Dances, the Rhododendron Festivals
Format: Reel-to-reel (30 min)
Subjects: Early information on the Edison and Allen areas
Notes: Transcript missing
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Homesteading on the Nooksack, Cold cures, Family memories of aunts and uncles, May is a cousin of Darius and Tabitha Kinsey -- he worked for them in their darkroom in Seattle for a year.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (25 pages), Reel-to-reel (45 min)
Subjects: Growing up in Sedro-Woolley, Early pioneers, Dances, History of the Shrewesbury family
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (27 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Birdsview, Darius Kinsey, Nell Quackenbush
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (22 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Bingham Family Bank, Prohibition, Dollar Road
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (44 pages), Cassette (1 hour 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history, Dairy farming in Skagit Valley, Tule horse shoes, Threshing, Floods, Dikes, Drainage, Soil, Peat fires
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (12 pages), Reel-to-reel (30 min)
Subjects: Brickyards, Drainage, Tile factory, Big Rock, 1916 to 1929
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (29 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Working in the canneries of Anacortes, Recipe for preserving sardines, Life in Yugoslavia
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (53 pages), Cassette (1 hour 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Anacortes and Guemes, Knapp's Machine Shop, First Ford dealership, the Chinese in Anacortes
Restrictions: none
Format: Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Notes: no transcript
Format: Transcript (32 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Truck logging, Blanchard Mill, Darius Kinsey, Mack versus other trucks. He has been hauling for 74 years and is still going at 90 years of age.
Restrictions: none
Format: Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Concrete, Mining, Marble Creek, Marblemount, Rocky Creek, Married and came to Skagit County in 1919, Big Lake, Logging, Indians, Prohibition, Bootlegging, Card rooms, Midwives
Notes: no transcript, only an outline
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (38 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early Edison area, Gilkey towing, Family remembrances - the Gilkeys and the Conns are related
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (62 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Sedro-Woolley Iron Works, Machine shops, Working on logging locomotives, Upper Skagit River Game Department, Blacksmithing in logging camps
Notes: one tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (12 pages), Cassette (30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Equality Colony, Early Edison and Blanchard area, Blanchard Mill, Shingle weaver, Accidents, Attended school at the Colony
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (52 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Hook tender for the English Logging Company and other logging companies, IWW, Dairy farming, Drainage, Steelheading, Cider making, Moonshining
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (52 pages), Cassette (1 hour 45 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: 1916 snow, Summit Park, Grandfather was an early Cypress Island settler
Restrictions: none
Format: Reel-to-reel (1 hour 30 min)
Subjects: Immigration west from Kansas, Threshing machinery, Horses, Thoroughbred racing
Notes: no transcript, only an outline
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (41 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Steamboats, Threshing, Clearing land, Diking, Flailing cabbage, Horses, Chinese, Evergreen Hotel at Conway, Prison Rock Quarry
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Reel-to-reel (45 min)
Subjects: Born during the flood of 1894, Gilkey Towboat Company, the Interurban
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (50 pages), Cassette (1 hour 40 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Threshing, Dairy farming, the San Francisco Earthquake was felt on the Skagit River ice
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (24 pages), Cassette (40 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Floods of 1909, 1916, 1921, Predicting floods by the weather, Early Riverside, Witnessed the 1903 Trainwreck.
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (16 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour)
Subjects: West to Edison in 1937, Threshing, Horses, Breeding saddle horses, Shingle bolt speeder car, Worked with Reuben R. Boyd
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (34 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 40 min)
Subjects: West from Minnesota with the Trafton family, Early Anacortes, Pile driver for the Fidalgo Island Packing Company, Mill accidents, Farming, Dairying
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (18 pages), Reel-to-reel (40 min)
Subjects: Threshing, Horses: Trotters, Pacers, and Standardbreds
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (30 pages), Reel-to-reel (1 hour 20 min)
Subjects: Ball family in Skagit County, Bayview Ridge, Fredonia, Burlington Iron Works
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (45 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Informative discussion of Skagit Valley in the early days, Father was John Peth, Sr., Peth acquisition of land through financing others
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (34 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: LaConner, Sedro-Woolley, Taught by Mary Purcell
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (37 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, Early businesses, Schools, Skagit River
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (3 pages), Cassette (10 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Depression, WWII
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Cassette (30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Transportation, Farming, Entertainment, Circus, Decaptra, Kerosene lamps, Childhood, Silk, WWI, Environmental issues, Early theater, Radio, Dancing, Baseball, Streetcars
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (3 pages), Cassette (5 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Schools, Alger, Bow, Marjorie Dorsey
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (15 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: LaConner, Farming, University, Mt. Baker climb, Family history, School, Dances, Avon
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (3 pages), Cassette (5 min)
Subjects: Entertainment, University of Washington
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (9 pages), Cassette (15 min)
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, Family history, Cattle business, Grocery stores, Indians, Depression, Fires, Sports, Recreation, School, Maritime
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (9 pages), Cassette (1 hour)
Subjects: LaConner history, Dikes, Floods, School, Gaches family and mansion
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (6 pages), Cassette (15 min)
Subjects: Entertainment in early days, Depression, Schools, Stores
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (4 pages), Cassette (5 min)
Subjects: March's Point, Pleasant Ridge, Fir Island, Rexville, Schools, Lutherans
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (5 pages), Cassette (10 min)
Subjects: Schools, Avon
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (17 pages), Cassette (45 min)
Subjects: Farming, Mt. Vernon, Telegraphy job, Mining
Notes: one transcript
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (10 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Teaching, Depression, War, Entertainment
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (10 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, Farming, Skagit River freezing, Flood
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (3 pages), Cassette (5 min)
Subjects: 1930s
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (11 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Roads, Schools, Depression, Logging
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Stanwood, Farming, Diking, Hobos, Automobile accidents, Scandinavians
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (6 pages), Cassette (15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Housing, Schools, Grocery store
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (8 pages), Cassette (25 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Anacortes, Schools, Mr. Sharpe as county commissioner
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (8 pages), Cassette (30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: School, Flood, Mt. Vernon
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (9 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, WWII, Towing job
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Conway, Depression, Schools, Flood, Sternwheelers, Logging, Hunting fowl
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (14 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Burlington, Sedro-Woolley, Streetcars, Interurban, Floods, Darigold, Fires, Logging, Hunting, Canneries
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (4 pages), Cassette (25 min)
Subjects: Typhoid fever epidemic, Mining, Farming
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (38 pages), Cassette (2 hours)
Subjects: Baker Lake area, Prospecting, Mountaineering, Joe Morovit
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (15 pages), Cassette (30 min)
Subjects: Schools, Baking, Movie made in Mt. Vernon, Sternwheelers, Flood, Logging, Smallpox epidemic
Restrictions: none - Easton Project Donation
Format: Transcript (33 pages), Cassette (time not listed)
Subjects: Work as seamstress, clothing designer, painter, dollmaker, owned clothing store/gallery in Mt. Vernon
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Indians, Gypsies, Bayview, Prohibition, illegal alcohol, electricity, Depression, Childbirth, Floods, Entertainment
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (27 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Farming, Floods, Diking, Kidnapping, Prohibition, Logging, Roads, Medicine, Schools, Early Days
Format: Transcript (87 pages), Cassette (4 hours), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Moonshine, Indian burial grounds, Sullivan Grove, Edison, Farming - dairy, beef, pig, seed, potato, sheep, horse, Depression, Founded Skagit State Bank, Early Days, County Burials, Cooking, LaConner, Conway, Olympia Marsh, Life in Texas, Childhood stories, Blacksmithing, Equality Colony, Floods, Diking, Logging, Mules, Anacortes, WWII, Indian canoes, Lumber business, Rodeos
Notes: four tapes and three transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (31 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Newspaper publishing, Logging and lumber mills, Floods and dikes, Schools, Settlement of Walker Valley (South Clear Lake), Interurban Railroad, Depression, Farming, Community Entertainment, 4H Clubs, Indians, Home remedies, President Taft
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (61 pages), Cassette (2 hours), Reel-to-reel 
Subjects: LaConner politics, Fire department, Fishing, Fisheries Department - local, state, federal, Marshall Plan, Greek, Korean,and Japanese fisheries, Korean War, WPA, Prohibition, Dikes, Depression, Courthouse, Hatcheries, Indian fishing treaties, Nuclear power, Mining, Fish traps, River ferries
Notes: two tapes and transcripts 
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (29 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: LaConner, Mt. Vernon, Pharmacist, Drugs, Medicines, Home remedies, Prohibition, Depression, Floods, Crime, WWI, Circuses, Schools, Transportation, Dikes, Telephones, Ann and Dr. Richards
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: LaConner, State Constitution, Mt. Vernon, Entertainment, Daily life, President Taft, Indians, Ethnic groups, Darius Kinsey, Churches, Skagit River - jams, floods, Depression, Seattle, Electricity, Kidnapping
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (52 pages), Cassette (1 hour 35 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history, Floods, Schools, Prohibition, Indians, Fishing, Depression, LaConner, Fish Pirates, WWI, Influenza epidemic, Ethnic settlements, Police work, Medical care, Home remedies, Homesteading, Dairy farming, Childhood, Floods, Refrigeration, Logging camps
Notes: one tape and two transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (32 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history, Fishing and fish traps, Farming, Bridges, Medical care, Civic life, Local Politics, Liquor control, Tulip show, Naval air base, Fidalgo allied arts, LaConner, WWII, Swinomish Indians, basket weaving, canoe racing
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (15 pages), Cassette (1 hour 15 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: LaConner, Local businesses, Clubs, Civic life, Bridges, Telephone, Indians, Prohibition, Family history, Home remedies, Winters
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (20 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Move west from Kansas, Family history, Daily life, Chataquas, Cars, Lumber camp, Pow-wows, Schools, Medical care, Influenza epidemic, University of Washington, Local businesses, Chinese, Depression, Floods, Swinomish Indians, Mt. Vernon, Snowstorms, Interurban
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (23 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Telephone, Schools, Swinomish Indians, Farming, Depression, LaConner, Family history, Entertainment, Daily life, Smallpox epidemic, Floods, Hops
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (25 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Murder, Schools, Indians, Wars, Prohibition, Floods, Dikes, Epidemics, Pest house, Clubs, Move west from Kansas, Mt. Vernon, Local businesses, President Taft, William Jennings Bryan, Pioneering, Local politics, Depression, Interurban, Postal service, Churches, Cars
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (30 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Burlington, Family history, Homesteading, Mt. Vernon, LaConner, Swinomish Indians, Pioneer Picnic, Immigration from Sweden, Electricity, Local businesses, Cars, Church meetings, Circus Days, Milk cooperatives, Transportation, Interurban, Burlington family names, High school teacher names
Notes: two tapes and transcripts
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (44 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Immigration from Norwaty, LaConner local businesses and buildings and municipal issues, Floods and dikes, Snowstorms, Schools, Farming, Politics, Transportation, Fish traps and gillnetting, Indians, Scandinavian population, Boeing's first airplane, Electricity, Entertainment, Depression, Fraternal orders, Unions, WWII, Canneries, Fires, Prohibition, Food
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (33 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history, Immigration west, Schools, LaConner buildings and businesses, Indians, Entertainment, Clubs, Childhood, Smoking, Trains
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (21 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early theatre in Anacortes, Mt. Vernon, Seattle
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (27 pages), Cassette (1 hour 30 min), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Mt. Vernon, Barbershop, Childhood, Milk companies, Floods and dikes, Money, School, Entertainment, Fires, WWII, Depression, Equality Colony, Trains, Logging, Snowstorm
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Immigration from Minnesota, Early Mt. Vernon, Local businesses, Early movies, Bridges, Alger, Water supply, Dikes and floods, Schools, Entertainment
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (13 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Early theatre, Musical accompaniment, Transportation, Film exchanges, Stage shows, Vaudeville, Radio
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (9 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Family history, Immigration from Scandinavia, Blacksmith shop, Car dealership, Early LaConner, Local businesses, Keystone Theatre, Schools, Newspaper
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (8 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Mt. Vernon local businesses, Seattle student life, Alaska-Yukon Exhibit, Camping at Rosario, Trains, Floods, Coal, Entertainment, Snowstorms
Restrictions: none
Format: Transcript (19 pages), Cassette (time not listed), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Depression, Civilian Conservation Corps, Meals, Accommodations, Daily routine, Deception Pass, Komo Kulshan Ranger Station, Fire fighting, Snowstorms, Anacortes
Restrictions: none
Format: Cassette (time not listed)
Notes: no transcript
Format: Transcript (10 pages), Cassette (1 hour), Reel-to-reel
Subjects: Weyerhauser lumber mills, Strikes, Mill management, Lumber grading
Notes: Cassette and reel-to-reel probably available under RIII-42. See catalog card
Restrictions: none
Format: Cassette (time not listed)
Notes: By Irene Schumaker and Friends, Feb. 19, 1991 for Oral History Section
The Lage Wernstedt Photograph collection documents some of the mountains, glaciers, rivers, and lakes in Oregon, Washington, and Alaska from 1916 to 1935. The collection primarily consists of glass plate negatives, although there are three photographs. The locations of the majority of the images are unknown; however some have been identified. They include Multnomah Falls, Oregon; the Columbia River Gorge; Reid Glacier and White River Glacier, Oregon; Mt. Hood, Oregon; Mt. Baker, Washington; Adam’s Glacier and Mount Adams Wilderness, Washington.
Images from this collection have been digitized and can be accessed online as part of Western Libraries' Digital collections. See: https://mabel.wwu.edu/islandora/object/wwu%3A32664.
The Vic and Mae Olsen Civilian Conservation Corps Collection documents the history and legacy of the CCC in Washington State. The collection comprises 3 linear feet of material spanning the period 1930-2001. CCC materials include a small number of general administrative records relating to regional CCC activities, and also records pertaining to individual camps throughout Washington State. Camp records include photographs, scrapbooks and publications such as yearbooks and newsletters generated during the 1930s, as well as discharge certificates and memoirs of CCC members who worked at the various locations. Photographic materials include images of one unidentified camp in Idaho.
The collection also contains records pertaining to the CCC Alumni Association between 1978 and 2001. While a small number of records reflect the Alumni Association’s existence and interests on a national level, the bulk of materials document the formation and activities of the Everett regional chapter (chapter 78), founded in 1983 by Vic and Mae Olsen. This collection contains membership records, correspondence, clippings, publications and photographs generated by the Everett chapter, reflecting its reunions and other activities.
Correspondence, programs and exhibit material, reference and photographic records dated 1980-2000 further document the construction and dedication of the CCC Interpretive Center at Deception Pass State Park and subsequent programs and events at this site. Reference materials include articles, papers and clippings relating to the history of the CCC both in the Pacific Northwest and on a national level, and also contain biographical information about Vic and Mae Olsen.
Researchers should note that the Camp Deception Pass Scrapbook also contains some images of the CCC Camp at Rosario Beach
The Ernest Werner Lennart papers comprise personal and professional correspondence, legislative reports, files related to state legislation, speeches and essays, newspaper clippings, committee materials, and records from the operation of Lennart's farm from 1953 to 1967.
Topics of possible interest to researchers include state taxation issues including property taxes, joint tenancy, and funding for education, Indian treaties and fisheries rights, the Washington State Dairy Products Stabilization Act, Alien Land Law, the Washington State College Foundation, the Implied Consent Bill, and the the Washington State Arts Commission.
The Collection of Miscellaneous Diaries was generated during an American Association of University Women booksale in 1999. Materials include diaries, autograph albums, and notebooks chronicling daily life for Whatcom County women during the mid-twentieth century. Individuals documented in the collection include Joan (Warner?), Blake Chesney, Lelah Jackson (Edson), and Maria E. Adams Richard.
This is a collection of images documenting Bloedel-Donovan Lumber Mills operations, including mill and forest scenes, lumber camps, ox teams and steam-powered skidders, lumberjacks, railroads, ships, and a few photographs of the Donovans themselves. Mill and lumbercamp sites include Clallam County, Skykomish, Sekui, Arlington, Alger, Blanchard, and Bellingham. Photographers include Fred and Henry Jukes and Darius Kinsey.
Materials created for and in response to the March 17, 2019 "Lest We Forget" concert by Whatcom Chorale. The concert featured a premiere of Sarah Mattox's "Heart Mountain Choral Suite". The suite is from Mattox's opera, based on the diaries of World War II Japanese internment camp survivor Kara Kondo.
The collection includes an event poster, concert program and tickets, a Whatcom Chorale Season Brochure, brochure for the Heart Mountain World War II National Historic Landmark site, and written statement reflecting on the event by Paul Opryzek (audience and community member). Also included is a video recording of the performance, created and edited by Steve Johnson for the Whatcom Chorale. The video recording documents a performance by Debbie Arthur (flute) of "Variations on Moon over a Ruined Castle" (Kōjō no Tsuki) by Rentarō Taki (1901). This is followed by the Whatcom Chorale's performance of Mattox's "Heart Mountain Choral Suite".
This is a collection of maps showing the location of fish traps in Whatcom, Skagit and San Juan Counties.
The collection contains the papers of Blanche Saunders Tjomsland, a former Bellingham Public Library employee. The papers consist of photographs, a scrapbook, diplomas, teacher contracts, resumes and newspaper clippings. The photographs contain images of home, family and friends, and the scrapbook contains photographs of family, friends, World War I soldiers, WWI airplanes and scenes from WWI France. There are also two high school annuals: The Crocus, 1925 and The Panther, 1942.
The records of the Bellingham Woman’s Music Club, spanning 1917-2009, document its members’ contribution to Bellingham’s cultural development. The collection includes administrative records, financial records, yearbooks, activities records, scrapbooks, and reference materials.
The Administrative Records, spanning from 1916-2006, include minutes, the club constitution, membership information and presidential records. Minutes contain summaries of meetings, musical selections performed by the active members at the meetings, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and printed programs of the performances and activities the club sponsored. The minute books begin in 1917 and end in 2006. The Presidential Records, 1978-2009, contains binders of records collected and maintained by past presidents and treasurers. Include copies of minutes, budget information, club by-law changes, lists of members, program information, etc.
Financial Records, 1940-2004, contains a treasurer's book as well as materials regarding financial and budget information. The yearbooks, 1917-2008, record the officers of the club and include the events planned for the year. Some of the yearbooks are missing, but can be found pasted into either the minute books or the scrapbooks.
The activities records, 1918-2008, document some of the various activities of the Bellingham Woman's Music Club. This includes: programs of events, information regarding National Music week and the Helen Snelling Memorial Award granted by the club.
The scrapbooks. 1941-1988, include printed programs of musical performances and social activities, photographs, newspaper clippings, and correspondence.
Reference Materials, spanning 1948-2007, include various materials collected by the club including newspaper articles about musicians and club member, manuals and handbooks, and mayoral decrees regarding the club.
Additional cards may be found in later volumes of the minute books.
This is a collection of records from a citizen's growth management watch group of Skagit County, Washington. The collection mostly comprises legal files and research materials relating to cases brought before the Western Washington Growth Management Hearings Board.
The collection includes reports, clippings, board meeting agendas and minutes documenting the activities of the City Center Development Authority in Bellingham, Washington.
The records of the Royal Development Company document the operations of the Trinity Mine, located in the Chiwawa mining district in Chelan County, Washington. The records span the period 1923-1946 with the bulk of materials dated pre-1936. Timesheets and payroll records, daily, shift, and mill reports, supply and tally books, maps, and plans document the manpower and material required for copper production. Accident reports document the high number of miners' injuries. There are also supply and tally books covering material stocked and bought at the company store. These records are complete and cover the period between 1923 and 1933. Also included in the records are manuals and catalogs from manufacturers. The collection does not contain internal company correspondence or organizational records.
The maps and plans of the collection comprise an organizational chart of the company, daily reports of operations, profile and topographic maps of the mine and surrounding area, and several mechanical drawings of the equipment used at the mine.
The collection was found scattered on the floors throughout the Trinity Mine complex in the mid-1970s and shows deterioration from lack of adequate storage conditions. Due to this factor most of the material is stained and fragile. The contextual information is still available, however, and can be used to glean insights into the life and times of early 20th century miners and mining camps of Central Washington.
This collection comprises financial and marketing records from a family-owned shoe store in Bellingham, Washington. The Soine Shoe Store was in operation from approximately 1931-1981.
A collection of papers documenting aspects of the life, family and business interests of J.M. (John Malcolm) McIsaac (1860-1941), long-time resident of Spokane, Washington. The collection includes brief genealogical materials regarding the McIsaacs, copies of biographical information about J.M. McIsaac, and a variety of mining and other stock certificates, property-related records, financial and legal materials relevant to his business interests in and around Spokane. Family and personal papers in the collection include letters written by McIsaac to his daughter Gladys and grandson John (Jack), typed recollections by Gladys of her mother and childhood, plus a small number of family photographs.
The collection comprises approximately three linear feet of material, consisting of photographs and a small amount of textual material, including correspondence, notes, maps, train schedules, and manuscripts and drafts of Cheever’s many publications pertaining to his railroad research.
The photographs, which comprise the bulk of the collection, depict railway cars, engines and other rolling stock of railroads and railways throughout the Pacific Northwest. Railway systems in the State of Washington are particularly well represented, and within the state, most notably Whatcom County and the Seattle area. There are also photographs of several railways in British Columbia, and others from Oregon and other states in the region, but these are few in number compared to Washington State railways, the emphasis of Cheever’s research interest.
These photographs document the Nooksack River Bridge at Everson, Washington. They were taken in 1991 by the Washington State Department of Transportation at the request of Mr. Leonard T. Garfield of the Office of Archaeology and Historic Preservation.
The J.J. Donovan Papers consist of Correspondence (1874-1942); Journals, Diaries, and Notebooks (1872-1933); School and College Materials (1875-1982); Business and Financial Records (1873-1942); Writings and Speeches (1882-1924); Images and Film (1920s); Ephemera and Artifacts (1882-1923); and Published Materials (1894-1937).
Correspondence (1874-1942) includes letters between J.J. Donovan and family members, including Clara (Nichols) Donovan, children Helen and John Donovan, and J.J.'s siblings. There is also correspondence that was separated and organized topically by local historians Brian Griffin and Gayle Helgoe, prior to the transfer of records to archival custody. In addition to letters, some of these files may also include photographs, newspapers clippings, and manuscript materials.
Journals, Diaries, and Notebooks (1872-1933) include daily private notes written by J.J. as well as accounts from his travel and some of his work. There are also travel diaries by Clara Donovan, and journals and notebooks kept by the Donovan children.
School and College Materials (1875-1982) comprise items created by J.J. during his time as a student, including essays and papers, grade sheets, notebooks, as well as a brief sketch of J.J.'s early life written by former classmate and childhood friend J.Q. Barlow.
Business and Financial Records (1873-1942) include some professional correspondence, banking and cashbooks, bills and receipts, tax and insurance information, stock certificates and reports from J.J.'s commercial interests, as well as materials from trade and industry conferences.
Writings and Speeches (1882-1924) include love poems, children's poetry, J.J.'s public address re: the Ku Klux Klan, and various other speeches.
Images and Film (1920s) are comprised of mostly unidentified negatives and prints of Donovan family members, as well as some images from Whatcom County/Mount Baker wilderness area and various travels. There are also digital copies of three 16mm films documenting family gatherings, and scenes from the Mt. Baker Lodge, Bellingham waterfront, and surrounding area.
The Buswell papers and photographs consists of primary source material collected by self-trained historian Howard Buswell during his lifetime. Researchers must pay particular attention to the fact that in his collecting efforts and in his writings Buswell provides an interpretation of history that reflects his own biases and the time period in which he lived. The items included in the collection cover nearly all aspects of social and economic life of the lower Nooksack Valley and North Puget Sound areas in Washington State from the time of the first contact between white settlers and Native Americans to the early decades of the twentieth century. He was also interested in the Lummi culture and the collection contains a good deal of source material related to the history of this tribe.
The collection consists of thirty boxes of material including correspondence, duplicates of primary source material, indexes and lists, business records, transcripts of interviews, copies of legal documents, scrapbooks and newspaper clipping. The collection also includes 16 boxes of photographs, 10 boxes of microfilm, over 2000 maps, and 3 boxes of reel to reel audio tapes of oral history interviews.
The correspondence begins in 1938 and ends in 1965 with the main purpose of assembling materials and other evidence on pioneer settlement in the Marietta/Lummi area. The bulk of the letters, however, relate to historical materials held in various archives and other repositories or else are inquiries to the latter about such materials. The correspondence is arranged in chronological order with the original letter attached to the reply. The indexes and lists are, for the most part, lists and indexes of various materials Howard Buswell collected. It should be noted though that the present organization of the Buswell papers and photographs is often radically different from the arrangement suggested by the indexes. The Bernard N. McDonough business records include miscellaneous private and business letters, receipts and bills, various legal documents, and a number of account books kept in McDonough's Marietta store. The legal documents and papers have been arranged in part according to subject, in part according to type, and in part according to the court of origin. They are composed of a variety of legal records ranging from business records to transcripts of select court cases.
(Clippings are mostly concerned with Pacific Northwest History and Whatcom County History.)
Howard E. Buswell: This is January the 15th 1960. About the third of the way through this reel of tape is a tape of a religious discourse by the late Mrs. John Brown. Formerly Mrs. Johanna Guerin. I believe her maiden name was Johanna Ti'elish. Or Johanna George Ti'elish. I just played it over after a lapse of several years since Mrs. Brown and her husband John have been dead for two or three years now, and I found it of considerable interest. I meant this in the fact that there is an unoccupied piece of tape for quite a ways. After Mrs. Brown's discourse is a sermon. And other services at the Marietta Mission. It is run by the Reverend and Mrs. Walter Harnden. The Mormons that continue on the religious, the religion of the Lummi people, the Mormons have a mission here in the house formerly occupied and owned by Mr. Chris Iyland. I do not believe, besides the Mormons, and Reverend Harnden's Mission, that there are any other active religious groups on the reservation except the Roman Catholics, who have had a church there for many years. But in the past decades or two why various Protestant groups have come in, but none of them have seem to have shown the stick-to-itiveness that the Mormons and Reverend Harnden's Mission have. The Shaker's have a church over there, but I don't believe it is being used now. Mrs. Brown was a very devout Christian woman. She and her husband use to go to the Catholic Church, but they for some reason or another, they found that they were not getting what they wanted. So they turned their backs on it, and became followers of revivalists such as Oral Roberts. Mrs. Brown always went to his revivals meetings when he was in the area. And she is telling in her discourse here, something about her observations and experiences of while he was having his services. I don't know whether it was in Portland, Oregon or Tacoma. But somewhere within easy traveling distance of this location.
Cassette Tape # 1: Mrs. John Brown (Johanna Guerin/Ti'elish) recounts her observations of the healings and miracles she has witnessed through prayer. She calls this, "to lay hands on the sick." She then reads a letter she received from Oral Roberts, an evangelical preacher. Following this she reads or preaches from memory a sermon based on Bible scriptures. She, throughout, emphasizes the healing miracles she has witnessed by Oral Roberts. One example is an Indian man, she recalls from Neah Bay who was healed. The interview segways into a broadcast of Oral Roberts entitled the "Indian Christian Hour" which appeared on KVOS.
Cassette Tape #2: Oral Roberts' TV program continues. Many hymns are sung (in English). Indian people are asked to come forward and give their testimony. A service by Rev. Harnden follows given at the Marietta Indian Mission. Rev. Harnden notes: "Don't be called among those, a rebellious people."
Cassette Tape #1: Philip Clark speaks of "Dirty" Dan Harris. His physical description, and character. The history of his properties in Fairhaven. Covers a period to 1891, when Dan Harris left. Tells the legend of what happened to Dan Harris after he left the Bellingham area. Dan Harris' exact location in Fairhaven on Dead Man's Point. Dan Harris known to do business in Marietta. He would come over by boat. Speaks of Dan Harris's supposed occupation as a smuggler. Dan Harris as a renowned womanizer. Speaks of the kind of transportation used around the turn of the century. Dan Harris a single man, but was known to have had a regular woman, who in the end "took him to the cleaners." Speaks to his uncle Bob Moran. Dan Harris as an educated, "cultured" (here meaning well read) man. Speaks to the lay of Fairhaven during Dan Harris's time (trees, mills, docks). Indian burial ground on Dead Man's Point where Dan Harris built his house/hotel. He still let people bring bodies in on boats to be buried. Dan Harris being able to speak Chinook Jargon. John Nichols came to Bellingham on June 1888. Lived in Marietta with Michael Clark. Helped put in the first telephone wire that extended to New Whatcom. Speaks to his recollections of Dan Harris. Speaks of character, appearance and land holdings. Attests to his wealth.
Cassette Tape #2: John Nichols speaks of the lay of Fairhaven at the time of his arrival. Speaks to mills, saw mill in Happy Valley district. Buswell concludes and reflects on the two previous interviews: November 21, 1957. He made recordings two years previous to this conclusion. Gives weather report.
Cassette Tape #1: Charley Kahana plays many selected tunes on his violin for Howard Buswell. Speaks between songs about his opportunities playing in public. Called the "Blind fiddler" or the "Indian fiddler" by those who knew him and his musical abilities.
Cassette Tape #1: Lummi Village on the mouth of the Nooksack River. Charley is 91. In 1878 and 1879 Charley played for Colonel May, at the Colonel's dance. The murder of George Phillips. George Phillips, married Billy Lears's mother, but danced with Charley's half-sister and this caused problems. George was shot over the feud between his wife's family and him. George Phillip's wife left the area after that, but was detained in Port Townsend and bore a son, Tommy Phillips, while in jail. After she got out she picked hops along with many Lummis. Charley speaks of Mason Fitzhugh, who married Johnny Pierson's sister. Charley's first musical experience was on San Juan Island, where, as a young boy, he saw some fiddlers at a dance at the Champeau place. He made his first fiddle out of split cedar with a horse tail bow. His father use to sell shingles/shakes at Victoria, and worked on the farms in the islands (San Juan). His mother was a widow (after John Bull died) when she married his father. His father came to the area on a ship, a whaling ship. Charley tells of his father's travels before coming to Lummi. Howard Buswell reads a letter written to Charley Kahana from John Bull's relatives (Charley's sisters Margaret and Jane) living in California. Transcript available. Transcript available.
Cassette Tape #1: Charley Kahana Fiddling. Charley sings "Digging clams down in Bellingham Bay." About half way through the song the tape is irreparably damaged, and about one or two minutes have been lost. It picks up again with Charley fiddling. Charley plays a piece called "Taking Nelly home" which he use to play at the Coupeville picnic. Sings "Pop goes the weasel" in Chinook Jargon.
Cassette Tape #2: Charley Kahana continues playing his violin and singing. An interview with Charley Kahana and John Nichols follows. Charley speaks of his land, and proving up his grandson as Indian of Samish, Swinomish ancestry in Everett. Charley speaks to living on Orcas Island as a young man. He went to school on San Juan Island, with his brother Joe Bull. Speaks to his ties to Lummi through his mother. Charley tells how scooners were used to haul lumber. Charley tells of working as a scooner pilot. Charley enumerates all the people he remembers knowing on Orcas Island. Charley speaks to knowing Captain Basford. Charley and John recall the steamboat workers. Speaks to knowing a MacDonald who owned a store on the reservation around 1872. Charley then speaks to canoeing from the islands to the Lummi mainland (reservation). Charley speaks to Joe Hemerly, his sister's husband, and Joe's homestead up the Nooksack. Transcript available.
Cassette Tape #3: John Nichols speaks to the people he knew in the late 1800s on Orcas Island. Break in the tape occurs where reel is damaged. Charley speaks to Burt Squi-qui, and Billy Clark of Orcas Island. Charley speaks to driving horses in the woods for the lumber companies. Charley speaks to his work as a schooner driver, his wages and daily life, pastimes. John and Charley recall the Wynns in Marietta and how (if) they tie into Lummi. John and Charley speak to Joe Bull's daughters. Both speak to the Buechets. Transcript available.
Cassette Tape #4: Howard and Charley speak to Charley's fiddle playing at various places and contests like the Puyallup Fair in 1925. John and Charley speak to General Miles, a steamboat that came from Port Townsend.
Cassette Tape #1: Howard introduces Mrs. Roth and the Roth House, which is situated between Ferndale and Whatcom. Howard recalls Mrs. Roth's mother-in-law (Lottie Roth). Howard and Mrs. Roth speak of peonies. Mrs. Roth speaks of when Captain Roeder lived in the Roth House. Mrs. Roth speaks of the elm tree in front of the Roth House planted by Captain Roeder. Howard asks about wedding receptions that were held at the Roth House. Mrs. Roth recalls these receptions, particularly the reception of Mrs. Abbott, daughter of Mrs. Roth's mother-in-law. Mrs. Roth and Howard recall the lay and furnishings of the Roth House. Mrs. Roth talks about the egg hunt that her mother-in-law use to have at the Roth House. Mrs. Roth continues to talk about the Roth mansion. The lumber that was used for the house was all cut at the Roeder mill in Nooksack. Mrs. Roth talks about selling the house. Mrs. Roth talks of having balls on the third floor of the Roth house. Mrs. Roth speaks about the lumber that was cut for the Roth house off of Roeder's homestead in Nooksack. Mrs. Roth talks about Captain Roeder's first home.
Cassette Tape #2: Howard begins a different interview with Mrs. Abbott (daughter of Lottie Roth), Mrs. Roth's sister-in-law. She lived in the Roth house as a girl. Howard notes that he lost half of the interview, thus it picks up in progress. Mrs. Abbott speaks of Collier, who built a house on Eldridge Ave. Mrs. Abbott speaks about Fred Drake. Mrs. Abbott speaks of her friendship with Mrs. Jukes (Eldridge's daughter), their rivalry and Mrs. Jukes' house. Mrs. Abbott shows Howard her furniture that was Mrs. Roeder's, and they discuss certain pieces. Howard speaks of the Glimpse, Captain Roeder's personal ship. Mrs. Roth speaks about Mrs. Edson and her book about local history. Mrs. Abbott speaks about her grandfather, Captain Roeder, and his travels, routes, to the Whatcom area through California from Ohio. Mrs. Abbott talks about how her mother and father got married. Her mother was from Olympia. Mrs. Abbott speaks about watching her grandfather die in the Roth house. Howard tells about Captain Roeder's journals, and relays a few stories from what he has read. One story has to do with Cap. Roeder going to collect shingle bolts on the Lummi reservation. Mrs. Abbott speaks of her mother finishing the Roth house after Cap. Roeder's death. [Break in tape where reel was changed] Mrs. Abbott talks about her brother, Mrs. Roth's husband. Mrs. Abbott talks about the sale of the Roth house.
Cassette Tape #3: Mrs. Abbott talks about the property surrounding the Roth House. [Break in tape where reel was turned] Mrs. Abbott continues talking about the outlaying features of the property, i.e. the cemetery, barn, carriage house. Mrs. Abbott speaks about how cattle were driven on the property by hired Indian hands. Mrs. Abbott speaks about the J.H. Edens family, i.e. Mrs. Jukes, Mrs. Henderson, and Mrs. Carr. Mrs. Abbott talks about other details of the Roeder/Roth House, i.e. the gardener. Howard concludes his interview with Mrs. Abbott. Howard adds more information that wasn't recorded. Howard speaks about the designer of the Roth House. Interview with Mr. & Mrs. Jukes. They all discuss the original name of Marine Drive in Bellingham and Marietta that use to be known as Lummi Road. Howard asks about the Eldridge house. Mrs. Jukes talks about how long Eldridge lived in his house before he died and the house burned down in 1894. Mr. Jukes talks about the forest fire of 1894. Howard asks for a comparison between the Eldridge and Roeder/Roth Houses. Howard asks Mrs. Jukes if she recalls seeing the big salt-water canoes on the ocean.
Cassette Tape #1: Arthur speaks to his father's religious beliefs and arrival to Lummi Island. Arthur tells of his father's part in the Indian wars. Arthur's family was one of the first white families to live on Lummi Island, settling in 1874. He talks about his family. Arthur speaks to working at Al Kirby's trap at Point Roberts and fishing the Fraser River for Sockeye. Speaks to Frank Wright's fish traps and Carslile Cannery. Talks about volume of fish harvested from the traps. Story of when the S.S. Bellingham ran into Frank Wright's traps. Speaks to Smugglers Cove/Deep Water Bay/Inati Bay, how it got its name. Speaks to various ships that Frank Wright owned and that were operated in the area. Fish traps along Village Point, who owned and operated them. Fish traps around the Islands. Chinese workers at the Carslile Cannery. Other non-European workers at Carslile Cannery. Other cannery operaters in the Whatcom area.
Cassette Tape #2: Continues to speak on cannery operators. Japanese Cannery operators and workers in Anacortes and Lummi Island. Saw/shingle mills on Lummi Island.(Second Interview with Arthur Granger) Talks about Bill Pollard who lived on Clark Island and smuggled Chinese workers to the canneries in the Whatcom area. Speaks to coal mines in the Sehome area. Speaks to old time settlers on the Islands, Lummi Island, Clark Island, Barnes Island. Speaks to Kelly family. "Smuggler Kelly" who use to smuggle Chinese workers into the area, and was renowned for his cruelty. Recalls Captain Smith who lived on Matia Island. Henry Beard and his fox farm on Matia Island. Smokehouse on Matia Island. Stills and alcohol smuggling on Matia Island. Japanese workers in Maple Bay. Ernie Berry and Carslile Cannery. Wong Tung who operated Carslile Cannery before Ernie Berry. Philopeno workers on Lummi Island. Wages for non-European workers.
Cassette Tape #3: The year Frank Wright took over the Carslile Cannery. Arthur speaks to working for Frank Wright on the fish traps. Granger recalls the Norweigen workers Wright sought to man the fish traps. Recalls Carslile, the founder of the Carslile Cannery. Recalls working Frank Wright's farm on Lummi Island on a 50/50 basis. [Break in tape where reel was turned]. Continues speaking about the first plane Arthur saw around Lummi Island when he was working Frank Wright's farm. Speaks of sowing and pasturing Frank Wright's fields, until Frank Wright went bankrupt. Speaks to selling the farm produce. Granger Home on the Village Point, and then Point Migley. Speaks to Bill Pollard murdering a man over a game of cards in Point Roberts, and Father Boulet coming to get him out of jail. Howard Buswell tells a story about Bill Pollard and his wife. Arthur continues talking about Bill Pollard. Speaks to permanent residents of Barnes Island, and how Barnes Island was used to breed small fur bearing animals.
Cassette Tape #4: Buswell interludes to insert Sweeny as the victim of Bill Pollard. Another interview picks up with Arthur talking about an adventure he had with Bill Harnden. Speaks to the start of Carslile Packing Company. Speaks to the post office set up by Frank Wright on Lummi Island. Buswell speaks to meeting and talking to Frank Wright's third wife. (Slight overlap where reel is changed.) Arthur and Howard speak to Frank Wright's first and second wives, and his children with his first wife (with whom he wasn't legally married). Arthur Granger's wife (Genie) speaks to her knowledge of Frank Wright's first wife, and the legality of their union. Speaks to Dickerson, who now lives on Lummi Island Land Company land. Buswell speaks to Frank Wright's ship. Speaks to Maude Wright, Frank Wright's third wife. Genie Granger speaks to Leigh Wright, Frank Wright's second wife.
Cassette Tape #5: Howard and Arthur speaks to Friend, who helped establish the Post Office on Lummi Island. Buswell lists the first homesteaders on Lummi Island and Arthur recalls them as neighbors. Genie Granger speaks of where she grew up. Arthur tells of the steel ships that once ran aground on Lummi Island. November 20, 1956. Tape is about half full.
Cassette Tape #1: Arthur speaks about the first picnic on Lummi Island on July 4 in the 1880s. Buswell asks about the picnic that Frank Wright gave in 1912, for the Indian community, of which very few white people attended. Arthur talks about Captain Jack who ran a large canoe (Chinook canoe as Arthur calls them) over to Lummi Island. Howard speaks of when the Portage was all one piece of land in 1859 according to the survey map. Howard talks about Mahoney Point off Cagey Road, after Frank Mahoney. Speaks to the Allen family, Sam and John Allen, who were of a white father and Indian mother. Genie Granger speaks about Constance Lane, who lives in Sitka, Alaska. Howard talks about August Lane's three daughters. Arthur and Howard recall the Native community speaking Chinook Jargon, and their Native language. Genie recalls the Canadian Indians who would come down and pick apples from their property. Arthur speaks to the Natives being able to navigate the fog on the bay as a contrast to their supposed fear of the mountains because of cougars. Howard recalls when all the Lummi people spoke only their language. Arthur laments that Lummi children of the 1950s do not speak their language, but he has witnessed that they can understand their parents when they speak in Lummi. Genie Granger speaks to meeting with Mrs. John Brown. Both Arthur and Genie attest to the cleanliness of the houses on the reservation. Howard recalls his interview with Mrs. John Brown.
Cassette Tape #2: Genie recalls John Brown. Arthur Granger talks about working with John Brown cutting boats. Howard interviews William Granger, Arthur's grandson who is in the sixth grade at the school on Lummi Island. Howard interviews Frank Moore, at Arthur Granger's house. Frank speaks of acquiring rice whiskey on Clarks Island. End. (Tape about half full)
Cassette Tape #1: Bill King to discuss Lummi Island history. He came to the island in 1915. He was a logger before being a ship man. He took job for Lummi Bay Packing Company on the cannery ships. Bill King discusses the Lydia Tompson which was a passenger, freight and mail ship. Bill King talks about the route that his ship would take around the islands, this was in 1902. Bill King then talks about the Clallam, a ship he worked on after the Lydia Tompson. Bill King gives the route of the Clallam from Seattle to Victoria. Bill King speaks of the incident in 1904 where the Clallam ran into weather and struck a dock. Women and children were evacuated from the ship. Bill King's sister was on one of the lifeboats that capsized. Bill King recounts the events on the main ship until it sank.
Cassette Tape #2: Bill King talks about the salvage from the ship. Bill King on the Alice Gertrude that use to run to Neah Bay. (Tape breaks where reel was changed) Bill King on the aftermath of the Clallam wreck. Bill King on aftermath of the Clallam wreck continues. Bill King on the Nooksack Cannery and the Chinese workers. Bill King on the employment of Non-European workers in the canneries on the Rosario Straits Islands. Bill King on the Indian workers in the canneries. Bill King on the Native population clamming and fishing in the islands. Bill King on the gathering in 1913 giving by Frank Wright for the Lummi and other Indians. Bill King on Friend who first owned the Carslile Cannery and the Carslile traps. Bill King on how Frank Wright acquired the Carslile Cannery. Bill King on how Frank Wright lost his fortune.
Cassette Tape #3: Bill King on Frank Wright continues. Howard Buswell reviews Bill King's interview on Oct 17, 1956. January 15, 1964, Howard Buswell documents the passing of Bill King. (Tape ends about half way through)
Cassette Tape #1: (Howard Buswell is a difficult to hear, Chris Siegel is very clear) Siegel on shingle weaver's trousers. Siegel on the location of shingle mills that he can recall in Marietta and Ferndale. Siegel on early trading at Marietta in 1883-1890. Siegel on the Morrison's who built a mill in Ferndale and Marietta. Siegel recalls the Log Jam on the Nooksack River. Siegel speculates on the cause of the Log Jam in 1893. Siegel recalls the pilings in Lummi Bay, and fishing for flounders with the Allen boys. Siegel on the flood of the Nooksack, and the change of the original channel of the Nooksack in 1893. Siegel on threshing with the Wynn brothers on the Lummi reservation. Siegel recalls the distribution of people on the Lummi reservation. Siegel speaks on the differences between the younger generation of Lummis who attended Tulalip Indian Boarding School and the older generation that did not attend boarding school. Siegel on Rogers' shingle mill in Marietta. Siegel on the Taylor Slough. Siegel speaks on coming to Marietta in 1883 on the old Washington ship. Speaks to his canoe travels up the Nooksack River with Indian guides. Howard Buswell recounts Siegel's trip from Seattle to Ferndale. Siegel recalls the terrain (i.e. who lived where) from the east side of the present day Lummi reservation to the Ferndale area. Siegel on pheasant and duck hunting.
Cassette Tape #2: Siegel continues on duck hunting on Tennant Lake. Siegel tells a story about a giant cedar tree below the Bennent's place where the body of a drowned boy was found by local seer Chris Seaman. Siegel tells of other things Seaman found. Howard recalls Chris Seaman, and his salon. Siegel recalls George Swiloose, who was arrested for murder, and escaped. He was brought back and tried and acquitted. Siegel elaborates on the details of the trial of George Swiloose. Oct. 29, 1956. Reel is turned. Siegel talks about the Allen family. Siegel talks about trading at MacDonald's in Marietta. Siegel on the route he took through the homesteads from Laurel to Marietta. Siegel resumes talking about the Allen family. Howard Buswell recalls the Northwest Road when it was undeveloped. Siegel describes the Allen family as "trying to be white" although they had Indian blood in them.
Cassette Tape #3: Siegel speaks of Mrs. Allen, who was a Lummi women. Siegel talks about the flooding of the Skagit. Howard asks about steam boats traveling as far up the river as Everson. Siegel recalls the interpreters at the Swiloose trial, who interpreted the testimony of non-English speaking Native Americans. Howard asks about Captain Siegel. (Tape breaks where reel was changed). Siegel speaks of the fire of 1894 that took out Fort Bellingham and North Bellingham and followed Squalicum Creek to Marietta. Siegel speaks of the homestead process, preemption claims. Howard Buswell speaks of his knowledge of snag boats making up the Nooksack past Everson. Howard Buswell speaks of the Slater Slough. Howard Buswell asks about MacDonald and his ocean-going canoe. Siegel speaks of his timber working experience. Howard Buswell recalls the timber mills in Ferndale.
Cassette Tape #1: Howard asks about the horse races on the tideflats that the Lummis use to have, near the recent smokehouse, or where the old church was located. Philip Clark and Mary Brown talk about the races and picnic the Lummis use to have on the reservation. Howard asks where Steve's house originated. Mary answers that it was a school house/church where she went to school. Mary talks about the store on the corner in Fort Bellingham, i.e. who use to own it. Phil recalls who built the store on the corner, and recalls the owners following. Mary talks about Haggen's Bakery. Howard recalls who lived in Fort Bellingham, around the store and bakery, when he first came the area in 1906. Howard talks about Hainey's house, and the Bates' family. Howard asks about Frank Kennedy moving his house from one side of the river the other. Mary speculates on the date that Frank Kennedy moved his house, Phil also discusses it. Phil speaks of pile driving on the slough network around Marietta. Phil discusses the river course in the early 1900s. Phil speaks about Henry Slater when he was first county commissioner, and his inability to solve the flooding problem with the Nooksack River. Mary talks about the Haggen brothers. Howard asks about settlers of the 1880s: Phil talks about Captain Mathews, and Dave Ladimore. Mary and Phil speak about Pete Hammer. Howard, Mary and Phil discuss the ice house in Marietta.
Cassette Tape #2: Howard speaks about Pete Hammer selling ice in Whatcom. Howard asks about Fred Lane of Lummi Island who eventually bought land in Marietta. Phil talks about McGuiness and Fred Lane. Howard asks about August and Charley Lane who had land on the reservation on Point Francis. Phil talks about the naming of Lane Spit. Howard talks about Whitney Wier, who was coroner in 1925. Alfred talks about fishing in the big salt-water canoes. Alfred talks about the amount of sockeye that one canoe could hold. Phil and Alfred talk about salmon fishing by using kelp beds out of the salt-water canoes. You cut a hole through the kelp about 30 feet wide and then place your net in the hole in the kelp to disguise it. This is described as "Indian reef netting." Alfred talks about using cedar ropes made out of cedar limbs and bark to fashion a traditional reef-net. Phil and Alfred talk about cedar mats and baskets made out of cedar roots. Phil speaks to seeing the local Indians boil potatoes in a basket. Alfred speaks to cooking foods in a basket using hot rocks to heat the water. Howard asks Alfred about baking salmon on poles laid across the fire. Alfred elaborates on this form of cooking. Howard talks about the pictures he has of Kanaki Bay, which pictures canoes up on boom sticks. Alfred speaks of fishing on Kanaki Bay. Alfred speaks about his father and sister Josephine who married Sam Cagey. Alfred talks about his closest living relatives, Henry Cayou in West Sound, another sister Josephine in Olympia. Howard concludes by expressing regrets about cutting off the end of the interview. [The rest of the reel sounds like a recording of a radio program.]
Cassette Tape #1: Interview with Knute Aker who lives in the Nooksack area between Wiser Lake and Nugents Corner. Mr. Aker took a homestead in 1886 after arriving in U.S. in 1883 from Norway. Mr. Aker discusses how homesteads were cleared of their timber, and floating logs down the Nooksack River to be boomed. The hop business, and Mr. Aker's involvement in it. Mr. Aker speaks of being a Norwegian in the Northwest and seeking other Norwegian's. Mr. Aker speaks of taking the stage from Portland to Seattle. Mr. Aker speaks of taking a canoe to Nooksack Crossing. Mr. Aker speaks of working for Vanburen on his hop field. Mr. Aker describes Vanburen. Mr. Aker speaks of his various experiences working in Whatcom County. He speaks of being taken advantage of by Vanburen, who didn't pay him for his labor. Mr. Aker speaks of finding and acquiring a homestead. Mr. Aker speaks of his benefactor Dr. Johnson, who gave him employment and helped him find a homestead.
Cassette Tape #2: Mr. Aker tells how Dr. Johnson, in the end, tried to scheme him out of his homestead. (Break in tape where reel was finished) Mr. Aker speaks to proving up his homestead. Mr. Aker speaks to the log jam between Everson and Lynden. Mr. Aker talks about the timber on the riverbanks and the sloughs. Mr. Aker speaks of working on the Cascade Railroad to obtain lumber from pilings for his homestead. Mr. Aker talks about Captain Siegel. Howard asks about the steam boats that ran on the river. Mr. Aker recalls the steam boats when they delivered his cast iron stove. The Advance, The Triumph and The Edith R. were the three main steam boats on the Nooksack as Mrs. Aker's recalls. Mr. Aker recalls the Indians as they traveled on the river by canoe. Mr. Aker recalls the Indian travelers from Canada fondly. Howard reads an article written about Mr. Knute Akers and his trials to obtain an homestead. Mr. Akers talks about clearing his land with stump pullers. Howard speaks of growing up on a strawberry farm in Ferndale. Howard concludes with Mr. Akers and interviews Mrs. Akers, formerly Ms. Door. Her family arrived in 1882. Mrs. Akers speaks of her family's early travels around the country, from Florida to Nebraska and then to Lynden.
Cassette Tape #3: Mrs. Aker tells how her father ran across literature by Hugh Eldridge on Whatcom County, which enticed him to come to the area. Mrs. Aker tells how her father came to give Wiser Lake its English name.
Cassette Tape #1: December 20, 1956. Interview begins without introductions. Sam, Phil and Carl recall people they knew in the early days - George Swiloose, Delarmer, George Byzer. Speaks to the murder by George Swiloose of the sheriff, Ryan Easterbrook who was pushed over a bank and a settler by the name of Moe. Speaks to the escape and plight of George Swiloose. Howard speaks to seeing George Swiloose on his property in Gooseberry point. Sam and Carl recall coming to Bellingham by steamer boat, arriving at Old Colony Warf. Carl recalls the timber in the area upon his arrival in the late 1800s. Howard asks about Sam George's house, its location in the "old days," and its status as the oldest building in Marietta. Phil disagrees and asserts a different building as the oldest. Everyone speaks to the store in Marietta - previous owners. Howard talks about his father's strawberry business. Howard talks about his father's chicken farming business. Carl talks about his farm in Marietta. Howard recalls Carl driving his cattle. Howard takes a few pictures of the group (then it being quite a process). Mary Brown joins the picture taking fracas.
Cassette Tape #2: Mary introduces herself. Mary speaks to working at Wannamakers. Mary speaks about seeing Charley. (Break in tape where reel was changed). Discussion concerning store owners in Marietta. Howard asks about the first class that attended the school in Marietta in 1890, he reads a list of names from the census of 1890. Howard reads a school roll list from 1891. Carl speaks about his father working in a cedar mill. Mary speaks about her husband Harvey Brown. Carl speaks at length to his wife's plum pudding. Howard concludes. Howard marvels that these men whom he interviewed could be as old as they are, and at the same time have so little of an education. Sam Allen states that Marietta is not named after his sister Mary Jane. Sam says John Tennant named Marietta after a town in Iowa. John (Nichols) says that Tennant and the Allens were sitting together and Tennant suggested Mary to honor Mrs. Allen's daughter Mary. Tennant then suggested the addition of etta to Mary to arrive at Marietta. Marietta school house located behind Wannamakers' store behind the alley. Howard speaks to his conferral with Jeffcott on the matter of naming Marietta, and Jeffcott confirms that Tennant was never in Iowa, and there is no Marietta, Iowa. Howard reads from Mrs. Roth's book to discern Tennant's travels around the country to see if Tennant named Marietta after Marietta, Texas from which Tennant hails.
Cassette Tape #3: Interview begins with Sam Allen, Phil Clark and Carl Bell. (Reel begins on second side). All three men attended the first class at the Marietta School in 1891. Carl Bell speaks about transportation into Bellingham. Carl Bell speaks about using the cross-cut saw, and nearly cutting his finger clear off. Sam Allen talks about his cedar shake house. Howard speaks about how the land was obtained for the school at Marietta. All converse on how logs were brought in for the construction of the Marietta school. Sam recalls his brothers attending the Sehome school. Carl Bell reads a love poem that he wrote to his first beau in grade school. Carl Bell recalls manning the belfry at the Marietta school. Carl Bell recalls those he knew living in the Marietta area who had children that went to school with him. Howard reads from MacDonald's account book as to whom the mill operators were. Sam, Carl and Phil recall those mill owners they knew. Howard asks about Morrison, who was contracted to clear the log jam and had a mill also. Carl Bell recalls the pile boom. Sam speaks about the diversion of the river so that the white settlers could fish without the Native fisherman obstructing them. Carl recalls the Edith, a steam boat on the river, tipping and spilling its haul. Sam speaks about the location of Treaty Rock. Carl recalls taking a canoe up Slater Slough carrying Lizzie Slater's body to her funeral.
Cassette Tape #4: (Tape breaks where reel was changed). Howard asks Sam about his family history, i.e. when his father, Solomon Allen brought his wife back from the Fraser River Valley. Carl and Phil recall the teachers at Marietta school, i.e. Christine McLeod etc. Phil and Carl talk about Albert Mormon, a local banjo player. Carl speaks about Pete Hammer's ice house. Carl and Phil recall Dead Man's Point and Strand's Point and who was buried there. Howard, Phil and Carl recall Emily Mohrmann, Albert Mohrmann's wife. Carl recalls Anna Wallace. Carl, Sam and Phil help Howard identify people in some of his pictures. Carl Bell recalls selling cars to the Native Americans in the area.
Cassette Tape #5: Howard asks about Sam Allen's father, who was the first settler of Marietta. Sam disputes that Marietta was named after his sister Mary Jane. Sam claims that John Tennant named Marietta after his home town in Iowa, not after his sister Mary. Phil, Carl and Sam continue to identify pictures. End(cont. with tapes 1 and 2).
Cassette Tape #1: Gaff McGlinn on the PAF (Pacific American Fisheries). McGlinn speaks on who started the PAF. Franko-American canning company was the first name for the PAF in 1900. Speaks about the cannery at the bottom of Harris Avenue in Bellingham. Speaks about E.B. Deming, who was important in the salmon business. In 1901 the PAF put up 350,000 cases of hand-packed, mechanically soldered, canned sock-eye salmon. In 1902 the PAF changed hands and "the great salmon trust" was developed. Onfroy as the founder and organizer of the PAF in 1888-9. McGlinn recounts the transition of the PAF to a man named Receiver and under him the PAF went into the PPNM. In 1907 Deming bought back the PAF for $300,000, which included all the fish traps in the San Juan islands and the canneries. McGlinn attests that the PAF would not buy from the Native fish traps locations. McGlinn discusses Proposition 77, which was to regulate fish traps and purse seines. In 1934 Deming sold his interests in the PAF for $1,000,000. McGlinn speaks about Onfroy. McGlinn speaks about how salmon were obtained from the star scows with a hose, how salmon were pitched, cleaned, butchered and slimed. McGlinn describes the canning process from the steaming and puncturing of the fish to the scraping, drying and cooling. Then to the labeling of the cans, which was done by hand.
Cassette Tape #2: McGlinn speaks about the Allsop trap in Lummi that took hundreds of thousands of pounds a day. Howard and McGlinn recall Captain Finley who piloted the Calendar around the traps in the Islands. (Tape breaks where reel was changed). McGlinn recalls the Uwanda and the Alpha going down in the Straits. McGlinn speaks about the fish pirates in the Straits. The fish pirates were known to bribe fish trap watchmen and take fish from the fish traps to sell on the open market. The fish pirates were known as legitimate fisherman who were disgruntled with the PAF's monopoly on fish traps. Howard and McGlinn recall various PAF Captains and workers. McGlinn talks about his wages. McGlinn, at length, speaks about working under Mr. Laythem.
Cassette Tape #3: McGlinn recalls how liquor was stowed on the PAF boats during Prohibition.
Cassette Tape #1: Interview with Bill Cunningham who came to the area in 1900 from Kansas. Bill Cunningham talks about working in the saw mills in Marietta. Howard asks about the shifting of the Nooksack channel in 1906-1908. Bill speaks about how the channel was cut at night with dynamite to divert it away from the Indian village to Marietta to bring in drinking water and to create an unobstructed access to the fish. Howard asks as to whom was involved in cutting the new channel. Cunningham names off a bunch of people. Cunningham claims the reaction from the Indians to the diversion of the river course was mote, because the Lummi fished off the reservation. Howard asks about bridges in the area, i.e. the steel bridge at Clarks, which was moved after the channel of the Nooksack was diverted. Howard talks about the Marietta bridge. Howard asks about Taylor's muskrat farm. Cunningham talks about Taylor's Creek and Taylor's slough. Cunningham and Howard recall the owners of the store in Marietta. Howard reads a list of the Marietta fisherman. Howard asks about fish pirates. Cunningham attests to having a hand in the fish pirating business. Cunningham discusses hauling pilings from Stuart Island. Howard asks about Frank Wright of Lummi Island. Cunningham attests to working for Frank Wright. Cunningham recalls when Frank Wright bought land in Marietta and built a smokehouse. Cunningham recalls the early priests or churches in Marietta. Some on fires in the area. Cunningham speaks about fishing.
Cassette Tape #2: Cunningham recalls some of the elder Indians he knew. Cunningham recalls MacDonald's store. (Break in tape where reel was changed) Cunningham recalls MacDonald's canoe, and the totem poles at Portage. Cunningham tells the story of John Jacob and Jacob John, who were two Lummis who were swimming in the Bay and saw the Northern Indians coming to raid and warned the village at Portage. Howard recalls when the village at Portage was abandoned. Cunningham recalls going to the smokehouse on Portage to watch the dancers. Howard speaks about Thomas Jefferson's claim as to seeing thousands of canoes at the Portage for a gathering. Howard and Cunningham recall the summer gatherings in Lummi. Cunningham recalls hogs on the tideflats. Howard claims to have a picture of hogs getting clams on the tideflats in Lummi. Howard and Cunningham speak about Sam George's house.
Cassette Tape #1: Raymond Green, on Oct. 15, 1956. Picnic at Frank Wright's on Village Point in 1914. Raymond Green speaks about why the picnic was given by Frank Wright for the Indians. Picnic as a commemoration of the salmon running (i.e. The First Salmon Ceremony). Green speaks about what he witnessed at the picnic, the first salmon ceremony for example, and dancing. Green speaks about Francis Hillaire. Green recalls the various masks used during the dancing. Green recalls the traditional fishing equipment displayed at the picnic. Green speaks about how reef nets were used by the Indians traditionally. Green speaks about sun drying fish. Green speaks about the technique of filleting fish that was claimed to be responsible for keeping flies and such away. Green speaks about the dance that commemorated the end of the raiding by the Northern Indians. Green speaks about being adopted into the Lummi tribe during the picnic at Frank Wright's. Green attests to being given a piece of parchment with "Hýu' Sion" (Hýyi(Great/Large) Siam(Person of high esteem/respect))" written on it as evidence of his "adoption." Howard speaks about his recollections of the Lummi language being spoken by the Lummi, and the loss of the language. Green recalls his knowledge of the Lummi language, (which is more a mix of Chinook Jargon and a mixing of words from many dialects of the region.) Green continues speaking about the picnic. He discusses Frank Wright's ship. Green attests to the amicable relationship between Wright and Lummi people, in the way that he allowed the Lummi to fish off his land, and he bought their harvest. Green attests to the picnic being John Alexis', Hillaire's, McKluskey's and Wright's idea. The picnic was given exclusively for the Indians. Howard speaks about the pictures he obtained from Mrs. Wright (the third one) portraying the picnic and one showing about ten Indian canoes with the cannery in the background.
Cassette Tape #2: Howard asks Green about the paucity of pictures of the actual ceremonies. Howard asks about the "Austrian-Lummi squabble." Green discusses the conflict over the fish traps. Green speaks about Commissioner Darwin, who gave permission to non-Natives, here Austrians, to dock their purse seines on reservation land. Then there was a $1,000 fine for fishing illegally on tribal land. Darwin overrode this restriction, and Green gave the Lummi permission to confiscate the Austrians' seines when they docked at the reservation. This went to court and confiscation was deemed just and the Austrian's had to pay the fines. Green talks about the fish trap at Point Francis on the Lummi side. Howard asks about the herring traps at the Portage. Howard and Green talk about the oyster beds at the Portage. Howard concludes.
Cassette Tape #3: Mrs. Albert Mohrmann reads a little poem that she wrote as a young girl in the first school in Ferndale. Howard explains how a reel to reel tape recorder works to Mrs. Mohrmann. Mrs. Mohrmann talks about the first school house in Ferndale, its location and such. Mrs. Mohrmann recalls going to school with Alice Eldridge. Mrs. Mohrmann reads her poem again. Howard recalls giving speeches in school. Howard and Hilda Mohrmann recall Jeffcott. Mrs. Mohrmann recalls being a janitor for the school. (Tape is blank for about 30 sec. where reel has been repaired.) Mrs. Mohrmann recalls Billy Clark who ran the ferry and had an Indian wife. Howard and Mrs. Mohrmann discuss the mixed families in the area. Mrs. Mohrmann talks about Maria Wynn. Mrs. Mohrmann discusses the Cedargrove post office in Marietta, which her husband ran. Howard asks about the conversion of the Lummi Post Office to the Marietta Post Office. Mrs. Mohrmann speaks about her children and Dr. Van Zandt. Howard asks about the Allens and the Dalys. Hilda Mohrmann speaks about the location of the "Alice Eldridge school." Mrs. Mohrmann recalls Dr. Mayfield as her teacher, and her school days with Lizzie Slater. Mrs. Mohrmann recalls Johnny Slater. Mrs. Mohrmann recalls taking the steamboat to Marietta.
Cassette Tape #1: John Nichols speaks about the first boat he remembers that was built in Marietta, called the Skookum, which was a steamboat that carried lumber and hauled barges. The Skookum was powered with a "brick-yard boiler." John talks about where the mill was and where the shipyards were in Marietta. John speaks about how steamboat boilers were made and operated. Specifically, how the boilers were encased in bricks to keep in the heat. John speaks about the Auntie Em Pence, the main, functioning steamboat. Howard asks about bridges, specifically the many bridges over the Nooksack in Marietta. John speaks about taking out the piling of the first bridge over the Nooksack at Clarks. Howard and John continue talking about bridges. John tells a story about dickering over lumber with George Swiloose. Howard asks about the Henry Roger's mill in Marietta. John speaks about the first rural telephone in Marietta. Howard asks about David Daly. Howard and John recall who sported a full beard in the older days. Howard asks about Fred Lane-Taylor. John recalls the story of Fred Taylor pursuing white suitors for his daughters who had a Native American mother. Howard recalls Irene Bond (Lane), one of Fred Taylor's daughter's. John speaks about the law of 1871 that required all "sqwa-men"(white men who lived with Indian women) to marry their Native American partners. Howard recalls Johnny Hyatt. John recalls George Smith and other township assessors.
Cassette Tape #2: John speaks about serving as a township assessor. John speaks about assessing logs at the mill, and the onnery timber workers. (Break in Tape where reel was changed). John continues speaking about his assessing work. John speaks about working as a meat cutter (at great length) and delivering his cuts around the county up to Custer. John continues to speak about his butchering business for the remainder of the tape.
Cassette Tape #3: Howard leaves the room and there is a period of silence. John speaks about George Dillenger. Howard concludes with John Nichols. End. Tape contains about 5 minutes of interview time.
Cassette Tape #1: Howard introduces Mr. Ingwold Iverson who will show slides and present a discussion on Alaska. Howard notes that the slides used in this presentation will be donated to him. [These tapes really only have value in coordination with the slides] Iverson speaks about the Carslile Cannery to begin. Iverson speaks about the salmon fishing in Alaska halibut and churches. Iverson speaks about Father Duncan. Iverson speaks about the PAF cannery in Alaska. Iverson speaks briefly to many various unrelated topics as they pertain to his slide show: evidences of gold mines, Alaskan sled dogs, Dawson's city, Russian Orthodox churches, bears, Aleutian islands, Sitka Alaska and the fur trade, salmon spawning, various ships.
Cassette Tape #2: Various ships continues, seal and sea otter hunting, PAF ships, harpoon guns, whales killed by harpoon, various other stories about his excursion into Alaska, sled-dog teams, Sitka in the early days, Mt. McKinley, Various famous rivers and glaciers.
Cassette Tape #3: Tides, more steam ships, (tape breaks where reel was changed), S.S. Dora and a suspended horse, Copper River bridge, Chuckanut Pass, PAF canneries and traps, Rawle Anderson's plane and subsequent crash, Iverson gives a conclusion of his experiences and knowledge of Alaska.
Cassette Tape #4: Iverson continues his conclusion, or ode to Alaska. Howard asks Iverson to run through the maps on his slides. (Tape breaks where reel was changed). Iverson talks about the Russian exploration expeditions to Alaska. Iverson talks about the purchase of the Alaska territory by the U.S.A.
Cassette Tape #1: Howard Buswell introduces the content of the tape as "Albert's March," which is a waltz that as performed, composed and recorded by Mr. Albert Morhmann. Howard talks about the weather. Howard gives the date of his parents marriage. [The music begins abruptly]. Howard gives more background to Albert Mohrmann. Second side of the reel begins with a second playing of the waltz. Then, for good measure, the waltz played again.
Cassette Tape #1: The "Indian-Christian hour" radio broadcast with services by Rev. Harnden. Sister Gerry blesses their Indian neighbors, the Lummi, Nooksack, Swinomish, etc. Mrs. Harnden and others sing a hymn. Sister Gerry spends a good deal of time soliciting donations for the Harnden's boys and girls camp for Indian children. More hymns. Rev. Harnden gives his testimony. Hymn. Rev. Harnden's service. Closing hymn.
Cassette Tape #2: Hymn. Boys and girls from Lummi Indian Reservation are at the broadcast. Bernice Plaster leads a prayer. Hymn. Sister Gerry reads a poem, "God wants little girls and boys." The Lummi children sing a hymn, "Jesus loves the little children." Jerry Lewis, a Lummi Indian boy, reads a verse from the scriptures; other verses from the scriptures are read by the children. Charles [Freddy] (Toby?) sings a song and reads a verse. Bernice Plaster reads from the scriptures. Norbie, and his sister Regina read scripture. Hymn. Rev. Harnden leads services.
To view item level description of maps in the Howard Buswell collection, follow this hyperlink to the map catalog on the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies' website.
To view item-level description of images in the Howard Buswell collection, follow this hyperlink to the photo catalog on the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies' website.
The Association of Pacific Coast Geographers records consist of a large selection of administrative files including committee and officers' files, correspondence, financial records, membership lists, and directories. There are also records from the association's annual meetings, arranged according to location, including photographs depicting various association officers and activities, as well as publications and communications including newsletters, yearbooks, and compilations of essays.
The Gates family papers comprise personal papers, photographs, and albums and scrapbooks spanning the period 1888-1996. Personal papers include articles and clippings, and papers generated by individual members of the Gates family. Cyrus Gates' papers include correspondence from Charles X. Larrabee encouraging his 1890 move from Vermont to Fairhaven, Washington. The collection also contains a small amount of material generated by Cyrus Gates’ wife, Mabel Huntoon Gates and their children: Frances Ellen, Cyrus “Cy” Kingsley, and Katherine “Betty” Elizabeth Gates. The bulk of the collection comprises photographs of the Gates family and friends, including images taken by Mabel Gates' brother, photographer Bert W. Huntoon, and images of Woodstock Farm, the Gates’ family home on Inspiration Point along Chuckanut Bay. There are also photograph albums and scrapbooks related to Mabel Huntoon Gates and her sister, Grace Huntoon Sheerer, as well as Cyrus Gates, which include photographs, personal papers, and news clippings.
Personal papers include correspondence from C.X. Larrabee to Cyrus Gates, encouraging his move from Vermont to Fairhaven, Washington in 1890. Cyrus Kingsley Gates' papers also include correspondence with Robert B. Thomas (author of Chuckanut Chronicles), Mary Bourque (daughter of C.X. Larrabee) and Consuelo Larrabee regarding local and family history.
Assembled by Barbara Sheerer Morris and Tim Wahl.
Includes items of interest to a young female student (the compiler) of the State Normal School in Bellingham and University of Washington. Photos of women's bicycling, sailing and picnic outings to Marietta and Chuckanut, etc. Social column clippings from newspapers.
Album contents include references to Woodstock as "Our Home..." reflecting the Huntoon's role as elders to their niece, Betty Gates Brooks Clark, after the death of her father.
Assembled by Barbara Sheerer Morris and Tim Wahl.
The Druzea Club records (1937-1987) contain textual materials which document the history of the club’s volunteer and community service activities as well as the active role the group played within the Washington State Federation of Women’s Clubs.
The materials primarily consist of club scrapbooks which are organized chronologically. Scrapbooks contain numerous clippings from the Bellingham Herald and the Washington Clubwoman regarding the activities of the club, certificates of award from the Washington State Federation of Women’s Clubs, photographs of club members, thank you letters to the club, yearly membership and officers lists as well as numerous ephemera from various functions and gatherings.
The collection also contains materials relating to the Washington State Federation of Women’s Clubs of which the Druzea Club was an active part. These materials include Bellingham-hosted convention booklets, club bylaws, a 1986-87 directory and speech and communication help-manuals. These materials can help in the establishment of the connection between the Druzea Club and the umbrella organization of the Federation.
The Rogan Jones papers document the activities and interests of radio and television broadcasting pioneer Lafayette Rogan Jones. Records span the period 1912-1983, with the bulk of materials dating from circa 1930-1970. Alphabetical subject files generated and maintained by Jones reflect his interests and involvement in radio and television broadcasting on a regional and national level. Subject files include materials relating to the legal case KVOS vs. Associated Press (concerning broadcasters’ rights to access and present news information to their audience), and Jones’ conflicts with bodies such the American Society of Composers, Artists and Performers regarding the management, licensing and operation of his stations. A large number of the subject files pertain to the operation and programming for KVOS radio station in Bellingham, Washington. Jones’ files also contain a small amount personal correspondence, dated 1912-1959 (the bulk of Jones’ personal and family records were removed before their donation to the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies).
The collection contains clippings and scrapbooks compiled by Jones through the period circa 1930-1958, documenting issues relating to radio broadcasting and also to news events affecting the Bellingham area. The bulk of material in the scrapbooks is compiled from Bellingham newspapers. The collection also includes reel-to-reel tapes containing select KVOS radio interviews and broadcasts (dated 1938-1940) and a small amount of photographic material.
The collection includes records generated by Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) affiliated with Franklin, Sehome, Roosevelt and Eureka schools in Whatcom County, Washington between 1917 and 1986. Materials include minutes, financial records, correspondence and scrapbooks.
This collection comprises materials related to Whatcom County fiscal issues and local political campaigns compiled by former Whatcom County Commissioner Larry McIntyre.
The Donald MacPhail papers include published materials about natural resources in Whatcom and Grays Harbor Counties, and railroads throughout Washington State.
The Mothers of World War Veterans records cover the years 1917 through 1958. The records include a members list and history, meeting minutes, correspondence and newspaper clippings. The members list not only contains names of the charter members and others, and also lists all club presidents. Minutes include articles of formation, lists of mothers and their sons, and the constitution and bylaws of the group. They also contain newspaper clippings, letters and other materials describing the creation of and planting of trees in Memorial Park in Bellingham, Washington, as well as members' volunteer involvement during World War II. Later minutes describe the decline of the club. Correspondence includes two thank-you letters and three 25th anniversary cards. The collection contains two newspaper clippings: one discussing the Bellingham Memorial Park tree plaques in 1966, and the other commemorating the last two living club members in 1971.
The collection consists of one Congressional Railroad Survey map covering the Milk River to the Columbia River.
The Eldon Barrett Papers comprise biographical and personal papers, research, writings and photographic materials documenting the life and career of a nationally known journalist, United Press International (UPI) writer and news bureau chief.
The collection contains a small number of biographical and personal records, including documents from Eldon Barrett’s high school and college years, certificates of award, papers relating to his military service and a copy of his obituary.
The bulk of the collection comprises the extensive research and writing files generated through the course of Barrett’s career with UPI, and during his “retirement” years as a freelance travel writer and Bellingham Herald columnist. Maintained largely in the original and meticulous order found in Barrett's office, these files chronicle the extent and evolving nature of his research interests. His files include an assortment of notes, correspondence, articles, clippings, publications, photographs and other materials organized topically as the basis for his professional writings. These research and writings files document a wide variety of subjects, including people, places and events in the Pacific Northwest and other world-wide locations. Barrett researched and documented myriad stories of local and regional interest, including high-profile criminal cases, Pacific Northwest maritime history, WWII history in the Aleutian Islands and nuclear weapons testing at Amchitka, Alaska. Also of interest and grouped together are research files for Barrett’s Bellingham Herald “Seniors” columns, and pertaining to his ideas for books, articles, poetry and other writing projects. While Barrett frequently included copies or drafts of his manuscripts among these (subject-related) research files, researchers will also find many related and additional writings organized together under the headings “publications” and “published articles.”
Eldon Barrett's papers contain a significant number of slides, photographs and scrapbooks that complement or document his writings and other research materials. Folders, albums and scrapbooks are clearly identified on the inventory with descriptive titles (most supplied or labeled by Barrett) regarding the name, location and date of their subjects. They include slides of travels and landscapes in Western Washington and the Pacific Northwest in particular, images of Seattle and Olympia during the 1960s (including images of visiting presidents, Robert F. Kennedy and Black Panther protests in Olympia), and scrapbooks of photos and clippings documenting Barrett's work "On the Job" at UPI's Seattle office.
The collection also includes a small number of programs from sporting and other events, including the dedication ceremony for the Seattle Kingdome.
Scrapbook of additional biographical papers and documents can be found in file 11/10.
Writings/clippings/correspondence and photographs, re: battle of the Aleutian Islands Brown binder
Many of these files appear to be source material for Eldon Barrett’s later Bellingham Herald “Seniors” columns.
The collection consists of inbound/outbound tonnage logs, wharf manifests, a yearbook, and statistical data from the Bellingham Municipal Dock (later Citizens Dock).
The Al Swift Congressional Papers comprise materials generated during Swift's 16 year career in the United States House of Representatives (1978-1994). The collection documents Swift's operations in both Washington D.C. and in his district offices in Everett and Bellingham.
The records consist of correspondence; photographs; speeches; awards; and press, committee, campaign and project files. The materials document important issues of the late 1970s through the mid-1990s, including environmental concerns such as clean air, nuclear waste, the spotted owl, and hydroelectric power; telecommunication and broadcasting issues; and campaign finance reform and uniform poll closing.
Casework files were destroyed by Representative Swift's staff due to privacy issues.
(Note: The 1979 Employment file was removed from the collection due to the personal information it contained.)
(Computer Printout)
(Schedule/Letters/Lists)
(Misc. Info/Memos)
(Press Clippings)
(Plus Schedules Through 12/31/91)
The Jack Metcalf Papers document two decades of Metcalf’s political career as a Washington State Senator and United States Congressman. Collection materials span the period 1973-2001, with the bulk of materials dated 1981-2000. Pre-congressional records comprise approximately one linear foot of material generated during Metcalf’s final years as a Senator in the Washington State Legislature (1981-1993). Alphabetically-arranged Legislative Issue files document Metcalf’s long-standing opposition to the U.S. Federal Reserve, and his role as head of the Senate Environmental and Natural Resources Committee between 1988-1992. These files include correspondence, reports, surveys and articles reflecting communication and conflict between the Washington State Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, Washington Wildlife Commission, Tribes and other interest groups over hunting rights and restrictions. Pre-congressional materials also contain a small number of awards and certificates of appreciation Metcalf received for his legislative work. With the exception of one “Outstanding Senator” award from 1973, the collection does not document Metcalf’s activities in the Washington State Legislature prior to 1981.
Congressional Records document Jack Metcalf’s role and interests as representative for Washington State’s 2nd Congressional District between 1994 and 2000. The majority of Congressional records were generated at Metcalf’s offices in Washington D.C., with a smaller amount of material (approximately three linear feet) from his District Office in Everett, Washington.
D.C. Office materials include a significant number of “Legislative Issue” files, grouped together according to subject (A-Z). These files include variously correspondence, memos, notes, statements, articles, and draft legislation pertaining to twenty-four broad areas of legislative concern. Many of Metcalf’s political activities focused on issues of immediate significance to the Pacific Northwest and his constituents in Washington State. Legislative Issue files document his roles in securing appropriations for transportation projects in the Puget Sound region, and seeking relief for fishers affected adversely by the downturn in the fishing industry at the end of the twentieth century. The collection documents many of the ongoing conflicts between environmental and commercial interests over protection, use and development of local resources, including National Park and National Forest Land, fisheries, waterways, and industrial clean-up sites. Whale and Marine Mammal files detail Metcalf’s active opposition to whaling by the Makah Indian Tribe in Neah Bay, Washington, while Water and Shipping files record his bipartisan efforts to enact the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative (1998). The collection contains press clippings, correspondence, statements, hearings transcripts and reports documenting the aftermath of the June 10, 1999 gas pipeline explosion at Whatcom Creek in Bellingham, Washington, and subsequent attempts by legislators and community organizations to enact pipeline safety legislation.
Legislative issue files pertaining to Aviation, Defense and US Military, Education, and Housing reflect Metcalf’s active support for local military contract bids, concern with the interests of local military families, his investigations into Gulf War Syndrome, and his active support for homeless veterans programs. Materials related to Defense and the Executive Branch record Metcalf’s opposition to Clinton’s alleged expansion and misuse of executive authority, notably through his troop deployments in Kosovo. Legislative Issue files also document Metcalf’s legislative involvement in areas of Banking and Investment, Agricultural, Health and Immigration policy, Energy Provision, Science and Telecommunications, Tribal Issues and International Trade and Foreign Affairs.
Metcalf’s D.C. Office Files include correspondence files dated 1995-2000. The majority of letters are outgoing from Metcalf (often in coalition with other legislators) to correspondents including the President, White House officials, the Speaker of the House, leaders of House Committees, and key figures in the private and non-government sector. Press Files comprise photographs, press statements and releases pertaining to Metcalf’s legislative concerns, and partial documentation of Metcalf’s congressional voting record. D.C. Office files also include a small number of awards and certificates Metcalf earned for his legislative work.
Metcalf’s congressional papers also contain a smaller amount of material (approximately three linear feet) generated at Metcalf’s District Office in Everett, Washington. The bulk of District Office records are subject-based Legislative Issue files. Articles, hearing transcripts and reports document Metcalf’s investigation into links between military vaccines and Gulf War Illnesses among Persian Gulf veterans, and include a copy of his 2000 report entitled Potential Role of Squalene in Gulf War Illnesses, submitted to the House Subcommittee on National Security, Veterans Affairs, and International Relations. The subseries also contains materials regarding military issues and local military bases, Lummi Indian Nation requests for federal assistance, Swinomish leaseholds and water rights, the local fishing industry and regional transportation and environmental projects. District office files include a further number of awards and certificates presented to Metcalf.
 Pre-congressional records document Metcalf’s activities and concerns as a member of the Washington State Senate between 1981 and 1993, including his role as head of the Senate Environmental and Natural Resources Committee. The bulk of materials pertain to Metcalf’s dealings with the Washington State Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, and the Washington Wildlife Commission regarding hunting rights and restrictions. The series also documents Metcalf’s active opposition to the United States Federal Reserve.
Records reflect industry responses to legislation including federal milk pricing, food contamination and labeling, and alien worker programs. In 1999, Metcalf co-sponsored the Genetically Engineered Right To Know Act (H.R. 3377) with Representative Dennis Kucinich (D-Ohio) and other members of Congress.
Copies of budget proposals, resolutions, notes, correspondence and reports pertaining to budget appropriations and related issues.
Aviation files reflect Metcalf’s interests as member of the House Aviation Subcommittee. Researchers should note that Defense and US Military files contain additional information regarding Boeing and McDonnell Douglas bids and contracts.
A member of the House Banking Committee, Metcalf supported and introduced legislation that would enable businesses to earn interest on demand deposit accounts.
An advocate of campaign finance reform and Congressional term limits, Metcalf supported the Shays-Meehan Campaign Finance Reform bill, passed by the House of Representatives in 1998.
Defense and US military files reflect Metcalf’s active interest in local and national military affairs. Subject files document his opposition to Clinton’s use of executive authority to deploy troops in Kosovo (culminating in his introduction of a War Powers Bill in 1999), support for Boeing’s 1995 bid to supply a ‘mixed fleet’ of C-17 and Boeing 747 aircraft to the US Air Force, and a small amount of material regarding his investigations into causes of Gulf War Illnesses. In 1997, Metcalf introduced House Resolution 191, condemning European Union opposition to the merger of Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas. Files also include brochures and press kits from US Navy vessels and stations visited by Jeff Markey, Metcalf’s military liaison assistant.
Education files document Metcalf’s interest in securing federal and state funds for schools in naval home ports in Washington State, including Marysville and Everett. Correspondence and statements regarding Higher Education Amendments reflect conflict over attempts to limit affirmative action and equal opportunity programs in colleges and universities. A small amount of material pertains to the Lummi Indian Nation’s efforts to gain funding for a new tribal school.
Energy files document disputes between Puget Sound power providers Bonneville Power Administration and Puget Sound Energy, and local customers including ARCO. A small amount of material pertains to restoration projects and treatment of radioactive waste at Hanford in southeastern Washington.
Fishing and Salmon files document both the down-turn in the region’s fishing industry at the end of the twentieth century, and ongoing debates and conflicts regarding the conservation of salmon and other fish in the Pacific Northwest, notably in the Columbia and Snake Rivers. Records reflect Metcalf’s support for fish and crab license buy-back programs, and his later attempts to secure federal emergency aid for Washington fishers adversely affected by the collapse of the sockeye fishing season in 1999.
Ground Transportation files include background information and funding proposals for a variety of transportation improvement and development projects in the Puget Sound region of Washington. As a member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and Ground Transportation subcommittee, Metcalf was actively involved in securing funds to develop and improve regional roads, bridges, transportation centers, port access, border crossings, and rail and bus mass transit systems. The majority of these projects sought funding from grants available under the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act, renewed by Congress in 1998.
Records reflect legislative conflicts surrounding issues such as Medicare and access to prescription drugs, Drug Abuse Prevention Laws, and Patient Privacy.
Records document legislative responses to homelessness, and reflect Metcalf’s activities as a member and chair of the Republican Housing Opportunity Caucus (RHOC). In 1997, Metcalf introduced the Robert Stodola Homeless Veterans’ Assistance Act, requiring that McKinney Homeless Assistance Act programs devote 20% of funding to homeless veterans. He also sought to amendments to the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996, and co-sponsored the Affordable Housing Barrier Removal bill of 1998. Metcalf’s activities as head of the RHOC included support of the low income housing tax credit to encourage private investment in affordable housing.
A founder of the Northern Border Caucus, Metcalf supported increased staffing along the northern US Border and attempts to restrict legal immigration. He meanwhile opposed automated border entry and exit systems and the proposed introduction of border fees that might threaten the influx of trade and tourism to Washington State. Immigration and Border files reflect the tension between interests seeking to reduce the number of immigrants entering the US, and the desire of agricultural lobbyists including Washington farmers to protect access to temporary and seasonal alien workers.
International Trade and Foreign Affairs records reflect Metcalf’s interests as a member of the House Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary policy. Materials reflect some significant developments in international relations during the late twentieth century, including the impact of U.S. membership in the World Trade Organization, and debates regarding establishment of Permanent Normal Trade Relations with the Peoples’ Republic of China.
Records comprise press clippings, correspondence, statements, hearings transcripts and reports documenting the aftermath of the June 10, 1999 gas pipeline explosion at Whatcom Creek in Bellingham, Washington. Materials include testimony heard by the House Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings, Hazardous Materials and Pipeline Transportation in October 1999, and by a Senate Field Hearing in March 2000. Files reflect subsequent attempts by community organizations such as SAFE Bellingham and Washington politicians including Metcalf to enact pipeline safety legislation.
Resources Files document ongoing conflicts regarding the management of national and regional resources including use of National Park and National Forest land, fish and water conservation, Army Corps of Engineers development projects, and the proposed environmental clean-up of “Superfund” sites. A significant amount of material pertains to the use of resources in Alaska and Washington State, with clean-up information pertaining to Washington locations including Bellingham Bay, the Tulalip Landfill in Marysville, and Hanford nuclear site. These records also contain general information regarding the provisions and implementation of Environmental Protection Agency programs, including allegations of the misuse of Superfund and proposals for the program’s reform. A member of the Committee on Science’s Subcommittee on Energy and the Environment, Metcalf supported a ban on Alaska North Slope Oil, co-sponsored the Puget Sound Ecosystem Restoration Initiative to conserve regional salmon stocks, and introduced a National Organic Program Clarification bill in 1998.
Science and Telecommunications files include materials pertaining to the anti-trust case against Microsoft between 1997 and 1999.
Tribal Issues files document Metcalf’s role in legislative attempts to limit sovereign immunity for tribes receiving federal funds and also to restrict the process for tribal determination. Materials also include correspondence and funding proposals regarding the Lummi Tribal School and requests for assistance to displaced Lummi Fishers after cancellation of the 1999 sockeye fishing season. Correspondence and permit applications reflect disputes between the Lummi Indian Nation and Sandy Point Improvement Company regarding water and tidelands rights.
Water and Shipping files document Metcalf’s interest in proposals to restore and develop waterways and port access at regional sites (including Bellingham Bay, Stillaguamish River, the Columbia lower basin and the Port of Seattle), and his establishment with U.S. Senator Patty Murray of the Northwest Straits Marine Conservation Initiative (1998).
Records include research materials, reports, petitions, correspondence and statements documenting Metcalf’s opposition to the resumption of whaling by the Makah Tribe in Neah Bay, Washington. Researchers should note that Metcalf’s Press and Publicity Files also contain a file of newspaper clippings about the Makah whaling.
Records from Metcalf’s D.C. Office include correspondence files documenting Metcalf’s bipartisan activities in Congress, and the range of legislative issues in which he was involved. The vast majority of correspondence is outgoing. Correspondents include the President and officials within the Clinton Administration, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, heads of House Committees, and key figures in the private/non-government sector. “Individual Letters” comprise letters composed and signed by Metcalf alone, while “Delegation Letters” and “Official Letters – Signed On” comprise letters signed by Metcalf in coalition with other legislators.
Press and Publicity files include biographical information, photographs, press releases, and materials outlining Metcalf’s legislative activities and voting record. Press releases include statements and clippings pertaining to specific issues including the Makah whaling, as well as general press releases arranged chronologically.
Records from Metcalf’s district office in Everett, Washington comprise Legislative Issue files, arranged alphabetically by subject, and a small number of awards and certificates. Legislative issue files include research material, statements and reports documenting Metcalf’s investigation into the causes of Gulf War Illnesses, and contain a copy of his 2000 report “The Potential Role of Squalene in Gulf War Illnesses.” The subseries also contains materials regarding military issues and local military bases, Lummi Indian Nation requests for federal assistance, Swinomish leaseholds and water rights, the local fishing industry and regional transportation and environmental projects.
The Archie W. Shiels papers consist of research material, publications, personal papers, maps and charts dating from around 1790 to 1965. The bulk of the materials date from around 1850 to 1950.
Research materials date from circa 1797 to 1964, and represent the background sources Shiels used for writing his many manuscripts, books, and speeches. The documents reference a number of topics primarily related to Pacific Northwestern history and, in particular, Russian America, the Alaskan Territory, and the State of Alaska. Specific subjects include Alaska's annexation to the United States and its eventual statehood, subsequent boundary disputes, as well as the Bering Sea controversy regarding fur seal fishing. Other topics cover the fishing and fur industries in Russia and Alaska, Alaska Natives’ fishing rights, maritime and navigation, oil and geology, and transportation throughout Alaska, Canada, and the Pacific Northwest.
Publications date from around 1846 to 1965, and contain items authored by Shiels and other individuals that are related to Alaskan topics and the Pacific American Fisheries company. Some of the rarer books written by Shiels included Seward’s Ice Box: A Few Notes on the Development of Alaska, 1867-1931 (written in 1933), and The Early History of Canned Foods (written in 1940). Other authors’ works include Lieutenant L.A. Zagoskin’s Account of Pedestrian Journeys in the Russian Possessions in America (undated), and J.M. Shively’s “Route and Distances to Oregon and California with a Description of Watering Places, Crossing, Dangerous Indians, etc. (written in 1846).
Personal papers date from circa 1800 to 1962, and include documents belonging to Shiels, but generally unrelated to his research regarding Alaskan history. For example, these materials include a number of documents created by and/or retained by Shiels during his tenure at the Pacific American Fisheries. Cannery blueprints, canning industry publications, and a letter from Filipino cannery workers protesting their working conditions are a few examples of items located in Shiels’ personal papers. Additionally, there are photographs and negatives documenting Shiels’ career and personal life, and other Northwestern themes.
Maps and charts date from around 1910 to 1944, and comprise early representations of Alaskan, Canadian, and Pacific Northwestern territories, cities, and surrounding areas. Some of the maps relate to early transportation in these regions, including maritime, railroad, and highway routes.
This is a collection of birding field data, gathered and compiled by Clark Blake from approximately 1975-2013. The collection comprises booklets of field data, plus a small number of birding maps for areas documented by Blake, including California, Southwestern Arizona, and Western Washington. Originally from San Francisco, Clark Blake (1932-2017) was a U.S. Geological Survey geologist and avid ornithologist. He traveled extensively throughout his life, but was resident for many years in the San Francisco Bay area and Great Valley, and retired to Bellingham, Washington in 1993. The field data booklets typically include checklists of species, with Clark's annotations re: specific places, dates and times of counts, as well as the number of species documented.
The collection includes newspaper clippings, publications, research material and personal papers generated by Bellingham resident and Bellingham Herald writer, Nellie Browne Duff. Materials document, in particular, the construction of and events celebrating the Blaine Peace Arch, other local, regional and Washington (State) history, and Duff's personal involvement in various community clubs and organizations.
The H.C. Engberg photographs include an album containing twelve mounted photographs and seventeen loose photographs taken by H.C. Engberg. Images are primarily of Mt. Baker showing glaciers and glaciation. Other photographs depict Woodstock Farm Bluff, Chuckanut Bay, and Bellingham wildlife. There are also approximately thirty loose photographs depicting various places and people around Bellingham and Whatcom County, as well as a few postcards from other locations. The collection also contains a July 4, 1907 edition of the Bellingham Herald.
The Washington Science Teachers Association collection contains historical information on the origins and activities of this educational association in Washington State. The materials date from the year of the association’s formation in 1959 to the last journal publication in 2004. The bulk of the contents are administrative records and publications. There are also conference and club activities materials that document the interactions of the WSTA among different communities in Washington.
The WSTA administrative records contain correspondence from 1959 to 1989. Also included are constitutions and by-laws, membership lists, minutes of meetings, lists of officers and elections, and reports. Information on the WSTA's efforts to improve science education for K-12 schools is included in the reports and correspondence.
The publications include newsletters and journals that are focused on science and education in the state of Washington.
The Hovander Family and Park Papers consist of papers created by the Hovander family as well as material generated by Hovander Homestead Park staff. The bulk of the Hovander family materials were created and collected by Hokan, Elsa, and Otis Hovander, with other family members making up the remainder.
This collection includes correspondence, architectural drawings, maps, notes and writings, newspaper clippings, canceled checks, deposit slips, bank statements, tax records, legal documents, pamphlets & broadsides, photographs, Park reference materials and oral histories. A few of these oral histories include an audiocassette and full transcript, while most have only a short transcript. Roughly half of the total family correspondence is written in Swedish without accompanying translations. The other subseries also contain some Swedish language materials.
The photographs included in this collection provide not only a detailed account of the lives of the Hovander family, but also depict life on the farm and the many travels taken by members of the family. Included are many photographs of Paris, Germany, and Stockholm at the turn of the 20th century, as well as the family's multiple trips to San Francisco and southern California in the early half of that century. Early events in Whatcom County are also included. Parades, photographs of schools, and other views of downtown Bellingham and portions of Ferndale are numerous within the collection.
Many of these drawings and maps are extremely fragile. Most of the notes and text accompanying the drawings and maps are in Swedish. U.S. and Canadian maps are now located in the Miscellaneous Map Collection at the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies. See locator #2-18, 6-10, 6-11 and 8-88.
The Frank Teck papers document some of the writings and interests of this newspaper editor, journalist, and local historian. The collections includes articles regarding early European exploration and settlement on the west coast with particular attention paid to the history of Whatcom County, Daniel Jefferson "Dirty Dan" Harris, Robert Morse and the Morse Hardware Company, John Jacob Astor and the development of Astoria, Oregon, and European-American and Native American relations.
The Whatcom Falls Mill Company Records and George W. Loggie Papers span the years 1886 to 1978, with the bulk of the material dated 1895-1940. The collection primarily documents the story of Whatcom Falls Mill Company. The remaining papers focus on Loggie's personal life. Little is known as to how the collection arrived at the Center for Pacific Northwest Studies; however, it is clearly a compilation of records from many facets of Loggie’s life. Few of the personal papers are truly family oriented, and focus instead, on Loggie’s other business interests prior to the creation of Whatcom Falls Mill Company.
The first series of papers documents the business activities of Whatcom Falls Mill Company from its incorporation in 1895 to its dissolution in 1940. Included are administrative and financial records, correspondence, operations information, maps and drawings, and various advertising materials, including a business envelope with a picture of the original mill, and business cards printed on cedar. Included in this series are several records relating to the McCoy-Loggie Timber Company. While not a subsidiary company, the Timber Company supplied lumber to the mill, and records from both companies appear to have been kept together. Enriching The Whatcom Falls Mill Company Records are photographs of Whatcom Falls Mill, including a photo of a drawing of the original mill, two Brubaker aerial surveys, and one Sandison aerial survey.
Separate from both the Whatcom Falls Mill Company Records and the George W. Loggie Papers is information included on other regional lumber mills. This information, collected after Loggie's death in 1922, bears no immediate connections to Whatcom Falls Mill. It was possibly collected in order to assess the competition of other regional mills. Included in this series is information on the Bloedel-Donovan Lumber Mill, as well as Wood & English Limited.
The remainder of the collection focuses on personal materials of the Loggie family, and in particular, the business activities of George W. Loggie prior to his work with Whatcom Falls Mill Company. Included is early correspondence of George W. Loggie, primarily with regard to his previous mill experience in Oregon; papers, a ledger, and booklets that document G.W. Loggie’s interest in Trotting Horses; copies of the certificate of Registry of the Schooner Vigilant; a Family Expense Ledger (dated after G.W. Loggie’s death); and family photos. Also included are photographs of other mills, as well as those depicting various aspects of logging and milling operations. Some of these photos date to the 1880s and 1890s. Identified mills include Bloedel-Donovan, as well as other mills on Bellingham Bay, the Olympic Peninsula, and mills near the Cascade Mountains. The Family Expense Ledger, page 151, contains genealogical material of interest regarding the Lowery family.
The following items are of special note: Materials regarding the Lumber and Sawmill Workers Union and Whatcom Falls Mill Company, including correspondence and newspaper clippings dealing with the workers' strike in 1937; a 1914 Kroll Atlas section map showing McCoy land as well as other lumber and mill company property; an 1887 Map Guide to the City of Seattle, Washington Territory surveyed by Whitworth and Thomson which was probably a real estate map; and a December 10, 1895 copy of the newspaper Daily Reveille.
The artifacts in this collection include a wallet owned by George W. Loggie, and Volume VI of the 14-volume set of Hough’s American Woods is also part of this collection. Romeyn Beck Hough wrote and published the set between 1888 and 1928. Each volume consists of twenty-five species of trees specific to a particular part of the United States. Volume VI represents trees of the Pacific Slope. Actual wood samples of each tree are included; cut in thin sections to show the various planes of the wood (transverse, radial, and tangential sections).
The United States Power Squadrons District 16 records date between 1939 and 2020. The records reflect the organizational activities of the District 16 (regional), Bellingham (local), and Agate Pass Power Squadrons. They are comprised of minutes, office and committee files, treasurer’s files, bylaws, correspondence, handbooks/manuals, squadron histories, information on conferences and councils, publications and newsletters, awards and memorabilia, and photographs.
Some of the files appear to be from the treasurer’s files.
The Publications include newsletters of the Bellingham Power Squadron, USPS District 16, and the United States Power Squadron National Newsletter.
Electronic resources - contact repository re: access to digital files.
The M. L. (Marc La Riviere) Stangroom papers document the early career and activities of an engineer for the Bellingham Bay & British Columbia Railroad. The collection spans the years 1855-2005, with the bulk of the material ranging from 1855-1968. Stangroom's personal papers include a resume and fifteen-page report regarding the construction of the Bellingham Bay & British Columbia railroad (for which he served as engineer).
The bulk of the collection comprises letters from Stangroom to his mother and siblings regarding his travels and experiences in the western United States. In a letter dated 1855, Stangroom writes of his plan to go to the United States from India to enjoy better business prospects. Subsequent correspondence documents Stangroom’s experiences in California and the Sierra-Nevada region circa 1855-1873. His letters include reference to the Chinese quarter of Sacramento, the Placerville mining community, and the adverse road and weather conditions he encountered during his travels. Stangroom describes his experiences prospecting for gold in the Sierra Nevadas, life in the mining town of Michigan Bluff in Placer County, California, and the mining processes of the 1850s and 1860s. He writes of a town destroyed by fire in 1856, and also of interactions between white settlers and Native Americans. A June 1858 letter describes how Californians are driven “stark raving mad” by the lure of gold in British Columbia, with hundreds of men leaving daily for the Fraser River. Later letters from 1865 and 1866 refer to Stangroom’s work for the Western Pacific Railroad, and to surveying a line between Sacramento and Stockton.
Stangroom’s letters provide rich description of western landscapes including California redwood forests and the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The correspondence reveals aspects of his personal and family life, including his courtship and eventual marriage to Emily Stewart in December 1856 in Sulphur Springs, California. An 1857 letter reflects the isolation of many miners and California settlers: when Emily Stangroom falls ill, there is no physician nearby to attend her.
The collection also contains condolence letters to Stangroom’s daughter Zoe Stangroom Kindall, written after the death of her husband, and newspaper clippings documenting M. L. Stangroom’s achievements. Other documents include an affidavit from Mabel Stangroom Egan affirming her relationship to her sister, Zoe Stangroom.
Folder 1/2 contains information about Stangroom’s leadership in building a railroad line to connect Bellingham Bay with the Canadian Pacific Railway, as well as creating and operating two saw mills, and supplying the towns of Old and New Whatcom with water from Lake Whatcom.
These are the personal and professional papers of former Western Washington University history professor August Carl Radke. The collection includes correspondence, speeches, class notes and student files as well as research materials used by Radke in writing "Pacific American Fisheries, Inc.: A History Of A Washington State Salmon Packing Company, 1890-1966."
These scrapbooks contain newspaper clippings documenting the December 7, 1941 bombing of Pearl Harbor and subsequent events through June 27, 1942. The clippings are mostly from the Bellingham Herald but there are also some Seattle newspapers. There is also a scrapbook containing clippings about Edson as well as some of her writings that were published in newspapers throughout the area.
The collection includes both early and contemporary images of faculty and administrators at Western Washington University.
Color aerial photograph of Sehome Hill in Bellingham, Washington, showing the Western Washington University campus, parts of surrounding neighborhoods, Bellingham Bay and the San Juan Islands. Inscription on back reads "Dr. Paul Olscamp, Pres. WWU 1975-1982".
The collection comprises one financial ledger from the Fairhaven City Water and Power Company.
The Bellingham Chamber of Commerce records include membership registers, clippings, committee files and memorabilia from activities sponsored by the organization. The Chamber sponsored numerous local events including Blossomtime parades and Jaycee Week, as well as state-wide events and conferences throughout Washington State.
The North Cascades Audubon Society (NCAS) Records document the activities and interests of the Whatcom County, Washington branch of the National Audubon Society. The collection reflects the group's work to protect and promote awareness of the importance of wildlife, habitat and the environment in Whatcom county since its founding in 1970. The collection spans from 1970 to 2014, and includes meeting minutes, correspondence, membership information, budget information, and published materials, specifically the monthly newsletter Avalanche.
Administrative records are dated from 1975 to 2017 and include Board of Director’s meeting agendas and minutes, chapter and membership information and correspondence between the NCAS and other environmental groups. Financial records are dated from 1984 to 2017 and include account books and ledgers, budget reports, profit versus loss analyses and financial based correspondence with the National branch. Published materials are dated from 1970 to 2017 and include one brochure about the NCAS as well as every issue of the monthly newsletter Avalanche, created by the NCAS. Christmas Bird Count resources document NCAS's annual efforts to collect data about the presence of various species in the area, dating from 1967 to 2008.
According to the North Cascades Audubon Society’s (NCAS) website (accessed here on July 24, 2018: https://www.northcascadesaudubon.org/birding/christmas-bird-count/), the annual Christmas bird counts (CBCs) “…began in 1900 as an alternative to the traditional Christmas ‘side hunt,’ where the objective was to KILL as many birds as you could. Ornithologist Frank Chapman called for an end to this slaughter by suggesting that, rather than shooting birds, people count them instead.” NCAS sponsors two local Christmas bird counts: “Bellingham” and “Washington State Ferry” (formerly called “San Juan Ferry”). The following sub-series contains instructions, forms and membership lists for, and correspondence about the local Christmas bird counts, organized chronologically by year and by area.
The collection contains charts and lithographs documenting voyages by British Naval officer George Vancouver in the late eighteenth century.
Lithograph produced from sketch by H. Humphries.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by T. Heddington.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by F. Heddington.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by H. Humphries.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by T. Heddington.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by F. Sykes.
Chart shows tracks and various places visited by Vancouver.
Chart shows northward track and southbound return leg along the West Coast of the United States.
Chart shows tracks of ships and the islands visited.
Chart shows tracks of ships from California to Alaska.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes and H. Humphries.
Lithographs produced from sketches by J. Sykes, T. Heddington, and H. Humphries.
Lithographs produced from sketches by J. Sykes and J. Heddington.
Lithographs produced from sketches by H. Humphries, T. Heddington, and J. Sykes.
Lithographs produced from sketches by T. Heddington, J. Sykes, and H. Humphries.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by T. Heddington.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Chart shows details around Alaska coast and tracks of ships.
Chart shows details of Island north of Vancouver and tracks of ships.
Chart shows Hergest's Islands.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by J. Sykes.
Lithograph produced from a sketch by Z. Mudge.
Chart shows details of land north of Vancouver and tracks of ships.
Chart show details of coast of California and tracks of ships.
Chart shows details around Kodiak Island, Alaska.
Chart shows details of Washington's Coast.
The collection consists of several sets of slides covering the following events sponsored by CPNWS: the People of the Cedar exhibit; the Lieutenant Warre exhibit; Paul Kane drawings; Fort Vancouver in 1846; Coast Artillery including images of Ft. Casey on Whidbey Island and Ft. Warden at Port Townsend; and the move of the Bellingham Bay Improvement Company records from downtown Bellingham to CPNWS. Although the slides were taken at events in the 1970s and 1980s, some of the images depict documents that date much earlier.
The collection comprises an August 28, 2003 interview conducted by Midori Okazaki with Congressman Al Swift. Topics covered include Swift's appointment to the House Commerce Committee as a freshman congressman, his work with the House Administrative Committee, the Northwest Regional Power Act, the Motor Votor Bill, campain finance reform, timber resource management issues, the impact of the spotted owl controversy on rural communities, and the changing nature of Congress during his tenure. The recording is on VHS and DVC, with a full-text transcript available.
The Whatcom County Homemade Music Society Oral History Collection is comprised of six oral histories of founders and members of the Whatcom County Homemade Music Society, headquartered in Bellingham, Washington. Oral histories were provided by Flip Breskin, Robert Lopresti, Terri Weiner, Laurel Bliss, Laura Smith, Mary E. Penttinen-King, and Richard Scholtz. Interview files contain paper transcripts, and audio recordings.
The oral histories in this collection cover recollections between the 1960s to the present, focusing on interviewees connection to the Whatcom County Homemade Music Society, but also their experiences with the Puget Sound Guitar Workshop, a Washington-based workshop for guitarists established in 1974 in which all the interviewees took part. Many of the interviewees relate their experiences with both local and national folk singers, including Janis Ian, Pete Seeger, and Mike Marker.
This collection is a valuable resource for anyone interested in learning more about folk music, or the music community in Bellingham.
Ms. Bliss briefly outlines her early experiences with playing music and some of her early artistic influences, including Simon and Garfunkel, and the Beatles. She spent the majority of her college career at University of Washington. Ms. Bliss recalls how she was exposed to bluegrass style music, and how she was first introduced to playing the dobro, a lap-played guitar often featured in country and bluegrass music. She relates her experiences playing with the South Fork Bluegrass Band of Bellingham, including playing at the Darrington Bluegrass Festival and the Grass Valley Festival. Ms. Bliss has taught classes at the Puget Sound Guitar Workshop since 1984, and attended Whatcom County Homemade Music Society (WCHMS) music circles at the Roeder house when she was first learning to play folk music. She also describes the recording of a record, Old Pal, in 1994 with long-time friend, Cliff Perry, and discusses her experiences playing Cajun music, specifically with the Bellingham-based band the Happy Valley Sluggers.
Ms. Breskin briefly describes her experiences as the first Jewish family on Mercer Island, and how this isolation as a child led her to music. She moved to Bellingham in 1970 at the height of the counter-culture movement and recollects her connections with the South Fork Bluegrass Band. She relates her experiences as one of the founding members of the Puget Sound Guitar Workshop, and the various camps and workshops that sprang forth from that, the Sound Acoustic Music Workshop and the California Coast Music Camp for example. Ms. Breskin also discusses the influences she had on the WCHMS, and her thoughts and experiences in the Bellingham folk music scene in general. She explores the impact that musicians like Elizabeth Cotten had on her own folk music experience and her personal connections to other folk artists like Janis Ian, Larry Hanks, Mike Marker, Eric Schoenberg, and Richard Ruskin. She explains her connection to Mama Sunday’s, now the Underground Coffee House on Western’s campus, its history, and its connection to the music scene in Bellingham.
Second of two interviews conducted with Flip Breskin. Ms. Breskin describes her up-bringing on Mercer Island and her early interest in folk music, and bands and musicians of influence. She relates some of her experiences running Mama Sundays and its history, as well as the evolution of the Puget Sound Guitar camp. Ms. Breskins discusses the strong sense of community in the music scene in Bellingham.
Mr. Lopresti and Ms. Weiner both discuss their early musical memories, including familial influences and popular music influences, including 1960s folk staple, Joan Baez. Both were born on the east coast, Lopresti in New Jersey in 1954, and Weiner in New York in 1956. Both also found their initial interest in folk music during high school, and discuss the reasons that they were drawn to folk music. They relate the difference in the way music was experienced on the east coast in the 1960s and 1970s compared to the west coast, the accessibility of the music scene and the musicians in the Northwest that was not true for them on the east coast. They re-located to Bellingham in 1987. They discuss their first experiences with the concerts at the Roeder House and the WCHMS. Relate their musical experiences in Bellingham, including seeing such acts as Richard Scholtz, Ani diFranco, and Bob Franke. They also discuss their experiences with the monthly concert series put on by the Homemade Music Society and put on at the Roeder House.
Ms. Penttinen-King was born in Pasadena, California in 1942, and recounts her early experiences with music, as both a performer and a listener. She sang in her junior high and high school choirs, and recalls her father listening to jazz and Big Band music when she was a child. She recalls her own early influences, including Mike Seeger and Elizabeth Cotten. She attended the University of Maryland and San Diego State, where she saw Peter, Paul and Mary, and Joan Baez perform. While in San Diego, Ms. Penttinen-King was active in the American Civil Liberties Union, taking part in picketing during the Civil Rights movement, and she picked this back up after moving to Bellingham in 1982. She briefly discusses the connection between those movements and singing. She explains the structure and organization and activities of the WCHMS. She discusses her experiences hosting the concert series at the Roeder House, and the acts that she has brought to Bellingham as host, including Hank Bradley and Kathy Whitesides.
Mr. Scholtz was born in Los Angeles, California in 1947, and spent parts of his childhood in Ventura and Alton before heading to Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. As a child, Mr. Scholtz played piano and trumpet, and took music theory courses in college though he majored in Psychology. His first exposure to folk music came in high school when he heard Pete Seeger and the Weavers, and after college he took up the auto-harp. He recalls his experiences meeting Flip Breskin, and his work with the Puget Sound Guitar Workshop. He also relates how he came to found the WCHMS, and his continued work with the group. Mr. Scholtz acted as head of the Washington State Folk Life Council for 8-10 years, and has taught music classes at Western and at Whatcom Community College. He describes the Bellingham music scene, and its influence and impact on groups like the Homemade Music Society.
Ms. Smith was born in Hawaii in 1947. She recalls that her early exposure to music came from her father playing classical piano and ragtime when she was growing up. Her main musical outlet was choir, and she sang in her church choir through high school. She went to college in Portland, Oregon, and continued to sing there. Ms. Smith recalls her musical influences and interests during those years, including Joan Baez, Mimi Farina, Mark Spoelstra, and Steve Young. She relates how she began playing banjo, and how this led to her playing with Larry Hanks, her husband. She moved to Bellingham in 1979, where she and Larry reconnected with Robert Scholtz and became involved in the WCHMS. As a host, she has sponsored various acts including The Wanderers, Bill Merlin and Carl Allen, the Bird’s Creek Boys, and Sarah Gray. She discusses briefly where she sees the WCHMS headed.
The Southwestern Alaska Cannery Logbooks, spanning 1918-1950, document the daily work accomplished by various fishing crews working for canneries in Alaska. The Squaw Harbor Logbooks span from 1918 to 1929, although two years are missing. The logbooks discuss ship arrival and departure, personnel, daily duties accomplished, injuries, and the weather. Usually the logbooks begin in late February or late March and end in September.
Other logbooks include an unidentified journal from 1932, and logbooks documenting fishing activities at Olga Bay and Petersburg. The unidentified journal contains a small number of notations regarding supplies and fishing, and a brief log of a car trip from the West coast to the Midwest. The Olga Bay Logbook from 1941 was kept by Henry Loofs who worked for the Alitak Cannery. Like the Squaw Harbor Logbooks, it contains information regarding ship arrival and departure, personnel, daily duties accomplished, injuries, and the weather. The Petersburg Logbook from 1950 also contains information regarding ship arrival and departure, personnel, daily duties accomplished, injuries, and the weather.

