The Indiana University chapter of the Alpha Pi Zeta social science fraternity was organized in 1925. The purpose of the society was to encourage the investigation and scholarship in the social sciences. Active membership was open to professors, instructors, staff members, and select graduate students who had shown achievement in social sciences. Collection consists of minutes, financial records, correspondence, membership lists, meeting announcements, and constitutions.
This series of conferences was held annually at Indiana University from 1950 through 1956. They were organized by a committee under the general direction of the university president's office in cooperation with the U.S. Dept. of State and with funding from the Lilly Endowment. Collection consists of correspondence, financial records, working papers, invitations, programs, and publicity materials.
An Indiana University Professor of Education, Lunstrum's primary area of interest was social studies and he was a strong proponent of incorporating non-western history into the social studies curriculums of both primary and secondary schools. Collection consists of correspondence, newspaper clippings, proposals, and syllabi. The Councils and committees series is comprised of records that reflect Lunstrum's membership and leadership in state, national, and university groups, including the National Council for the Social Studies Audio-Visual Committee.
Formed in 1977, the Indiana Religious Studies Project (IRSP) brought Indiana secondary teachers to Indiana University to improve how the study of religion was taught in high schools. The collection consists of participant information (applications, course projects, correspondence), sample lesson plans, and a variety of records that pertain to the growth, successes, and shortcomings of the project over its seven year existence. The project's funding ended in 1984.
In July of 1949, the Inter-Institutional Study Committee, also known as the Four State Schools Committee, was created in response to a new law passed by the Indiana Legislation requesting that the four state schools submit a formula by which the state funds would be divided amongst the institutions. The committee was comprised of representatives from Indiana University, Purdue University, Ball State Teachers College, and Indiana State Teachers College. The collection consists of correspondence, minutes, preliminary studies, raw data, and five bound reports.
Charles Hyneman was a Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Indiana University. Collection contains biographical materials, copies of articles, manuscripts, research notes, lectures, teaching materials, papers and reports relating to his work for the federal government during World War II, and general correspondence. Includes manuscript copies of American founding experience (published in 1994), Government and politics in the United States (not published), and some chapters of an unfinished book to have been co-authored by Hubert H. Humphrey on the American political system. Correspondents include Hubert H. Humphrey, Sander Vanocur, and Herman B Wells.
The Central Scholarship Committee was a general committee for evaluating applications for scholarships and student aid. The collection comprises.4 cubic feet spanning 1939-1940. Contains correspondence with members of the committee, legal counsel, and members of similar student aid committees at the university concerning policy and decision-making; letters of inquiry from students and parents about scholarships and loans; lists of candidates for and recipients of student aid and some analytical reports.
The Office of Military Information was created 1 July 1942 at Indiana University to advise students, parents, faculty members and the general public about war service opportunities and regulations. Collection consists of subject files arranged alphabetically and spans the years 1942-1946. The collection includes correspondence with military and university personnel, directives from Washington, D.C. and regional military offices, and information on housing, courses, and instructors.
Charlotte A. Lowe, born September 7, 1867, in Indianapolis, Indiana, was the wife of William Lowe Bryan. The collection consists of personal papers, correspondence, and writings of Charlotte Lowe Bryan in four series: American Association of University Women, 1932-1933, consisting of loan fund reports for the Bloomington chapter; Addresses and presentations, 1929-1937, containing copies of speeches given both by and for Bryan; Correspondence, 1873-1937, containing correspondence both to and from Bryan; and Publications, 1933-1937, consisting of typescripts and galley sheets of articles written by Bryan.
Rosa Smith Eigenmann was an internationally known ichthyologist and attended Indiana University from 1880-1882. The Rosa Smith Eigenmann papers include some of her correspondence, research, and family ephemera.
Henry Thew Stephenson joined the faculty of the English Department at Indiana University in 1895 where he remained until his retirement in 1940. The Henry Thew Stephenson papers consist of the manuscript of Stephenson's unpublished "What Tree is That?"
Collection consists of speeches given by Thomas Ehrlich during his tenure as president of Indiana University, 1987-1994.
Herrick B. Young was an Indiana University alumnus, 1925. After leaving IU, Young continued his schooling elsewhere and became an English and literature professor at Alborz College in Tehran, Iran. He later became President of the Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, 1954-1969, and served as President of the Near East Foundation, 1972-1976. He was a Fellow of the Royal Geographic Society and the Royal Central Asian Society, and held two honorary doctorates. This collection contains memoirs of Young's travels and scrapbooks and articles written by Young between the 1920s and 1980s. The collection also contains lectures, notes, correspondence, and Young's book, Strange lands and wonderful people.
The Lindley Family collection is comprised of the papers of Ernest H. Lindley, Elizabeth Kidder Lindley, and Ernest K. Lindley. Ernest H. Lindley was a graduate of Indiana University, a professor of Philosophy at IU, the President of the University of Idaho, and the Chancellor of the University of Kansas. His wife Elizabeth Kidder Lindley was an 1893 graduate of Indiana University. Their son Ernest K. Lindley was a noted political writer and commentator. This collection consists of correspondence received by family members, the writings of Ernest H. Lindley, newspaper clippings, and personal materials.
The Faculty Seminar on Political and Administrative Development was established by the Dept. of Government (now Political Science), in 1962. Originally funded by a grant from Carnegie Corporation, it became better known as the Carnegie Seminar. Consists of correspondence, memos, meeting minutes, proposals, and annual reports.
Consists of personal papers, research notes, copies of published works, class and lecture notes, and the public speaking notes of Kate Hevner Mueller. Mueller served as the Dean of Women from 1938-1949. She also taught in the Education Department, focusing on psychology and then later personnel and guidance.
A system-wide administrative office, the Office of State Relations (OSR) monitors and reacts to state government activities that influence operations at Indiana University. Collection consists of one cubic foot of records created and/or saved by Malcolm M. Webb during his tenure as Assistant Director of the Office of State Relations. Within the folders researchers can find correspondence, faxes, memos, and reports sent and received by Webb. The most prominent subject of the collection, consisting of 11 folders, deal with the early development of the Theatre/Neal-Marshall Center.
During the early years of its existence, aside from a small Law School, Indiana University consisted solely of a College of Liberal Arts (became College of Arts and Sciences in 1921). Horace Hoffman, professor of Greek, served as the first Dean of the College 1894-1920. Collection consists primarily of incoming correspondence from former and prospective I.U. students. Most of the correspondence consists of inquiries about entrance to the university, transfers, and requests for transcripts or catalogs. The collection is not complete as it ends with the "M" correspondents.
Donald F. Carmony was an Indiana historian; member of the Indiana University faculty, 1939-1980; Director of the IU South Bend Extension Center, 1944-1950; Associate Dean of the IU Extension Division, 1950-1959; and editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, 1955-1975. His collection consists of correspondence, memoranda, reports, minutes, and other materials relating to History Department of Indiana University; university committees; professional, state, and local organizations, notably the American Association of State and Local History, Bloomington-Monroe County Bicentennial Commission, and New Harmony Plan Commission; and general correspondence with faculty, administrators, and the public, much of which deals with historic preservation issues. Does not include research notes or teaching materials.
David Andrew Rothrock was a professor of mathematics at Indiana University from 1892 to 1937 and Director of Admissions from 1937-1938. The collection consists of manuscripts of published materials, teaching materials, notebooks kept while he was a student at the University of Chicago and Leipzig University, and one piece of correspondence The teaching materials include mathematical computations and exercises, writings about theories, notes from specific classes he taught, and student papers from a seminar.
The School of Letters was originally created by John Crowe Ransom, F.O. Matthiessen, and Lionel Trilling as a part of the School of English at Kenyon College. When support from the Rockefeller Foundation ended, the program moved to Indiana University in the summer of 1951. Collection consists of the records of the Director of the School of Letters 1947-1979, organized in four series. The bulk of the collection is comprised of office files and correspondence between director Newton P. Stallknecht and faculty and guest lecturers. Prominent correspondents include a number of famous American poets and critics such as Randall Jarrell and John Crowe Ransom, as well as noted foreign scholars including the French existentialist philosopher Jean Wahl. Also included in the collection are a sample of student files and files representing Stallknecht's general university activities in his role as director of the School of Letters.
Records of the Department of Political Science organized in two series. The Faculty memoranda series is arranged chronologically and spans 1970-1991. It consists of memos to the faculty and other departmental correspondence particularly in regard to meetings. The Class files series consists of course syllabi, exams, and handouts and is arranged alphabetically by the instructor's last name. Prominent faculty include Elinor and Vincent Ostrom, William J. Siffin, and Russel L. Hanson.
James A. Woodburn was a long time professor of history at Indiana University. The collection consists of the correspondence, personal items, and publications of James A. Woodburn and is organized into four series.
Collection consists of 15 cubic feet of records from the departments under the Division of Biological Sciences spanning 1906-1988. The records are organized in a single series, Subject files. Because the records were in great disarray and the original order was unknown, it was decided it was best to simply arrange the records alphabetically rather than attempt to separate out the various departments. Even so, the collection provides a wealth of information on scientific studies at Indiana University, as the collection consists of correspondence, reports, committee files and more, some dating prior to the development of the Division. For more information on the name changes of the departments, see the finding aid for the collection.
A prominent family in the Bloomington community, Indiana University purchased land from the Dunn family in order to relocate the university to its current site after the devastating fire of 1883 at the Seminary Square location. Family members represented in this collection include George Grundy Dunn Sr., Moses Fell Dunn, and William McKee Dunn. The collection includes correspondence, writings, deeds and other real estate documents, insurance contracts, miscellaneous receipts, cemetery drawings and plot plans for Dunn Cemetery, located on the I.U. Bloomington campus, and family photos.
Collection consists of 3 cubic feet of records created by Charles F. Voegelin and Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin for their Great Lakes - Ohio Valley Ethnohistorical Research Project. Prominently featured in the collection are correspondence and reports prepared for the U.S. Dept. of Justice.
The University Provost position was created by William Lowe Bryan in 1923 in order to delegate management of the Indianapolis campus to another administrator. Samuel E. Smith held this position until his death in 1928. Collection consists of records of the University Provost in two series: Correspondence and Subject files. The Correspondence series is further organized in three subseries: General, State field nursing, and Construction. The Subject files series contains inventories, records, and reports from a variety of sources. The subject of medicine is most prominent and a good number of the records are about Riley Hospital for Children. Copies of several House Bills can also be found here.
Edward Grant, a Distinguished Professor Emeritus of History and History and Philosophy of Science taught at Indiana University for over thirty years. This collection consists of 24.6 cubic of Edward Grant's papers. Consists of correspondence, research, drafts, publications, and course and lecture notes. By far the largest series in the collection is the Teaching series and includes materials from Grant's years teaching as a graduate student at the Univ. of Wisconsin and then later at Indiana. The bulk of the series, though, consists of folders relating to the courses he taught in the IU Dept. of History and Philosophy of Science. The Publications series contains information on many of Grant's publications, including his books Much ado about nothing and Source book in medieval science.
Collection consists of 1.7 cubic feet of records created by Dept. of History and Philosophy of Science chair Edward Grant. Prof. Grant served as department chair 1973-79 and again 1987-90. The two series, Subject files and Correspondence, provide a wealth of information on the happenings within the department. Included in the Subject files are departmental memos, meeting minutes, and budget information. Frequent correspondents in the Correspondence series are university administrators Kenneth R. R. Gros Louis and Morton Lowengrub.
The American Association of University Women, Bloomington Branch was established on 12 February 1913 as the Association of Collegiate Alumnae with 60 charter members. They later became the AAUW in 1921. The goal of the group was to improve the status of women in higher education and to debunk myths concerning women academics. This collection is comprised of correspondence, financial records, governance files, meeting notes, reports, and scrapbooks. The collection also contains numerous subject files including those relating specifically to the Bloomington branch, and those relating to the Indiana and national divisions of the organization. These files contain materials on the history of the organization, various programs, committees, membership, conventions, and publications relating to the organization.
The Indiana University Bloomington Professional Staff Council became an official university organization on October 16, 1985. This representative council was created to empower the many professional staff members at the university by giving them a voice in university policies and actions that affect the working conditions, services, and benefits of their employment. The bulk of the collection consists of meeting minutes as well as information concerning the many committees, task forces, and university organizations that affect the daily operations and policies of the Professional Staff Council.
The collection consists of the administrative records and correspondence of directors J. Gus Liebenow and Patrick O'Meara related to the development of the African Studies Program.
Johnnie Rutland Smith was the wife of Henry Lester Smith, former professor and dean of the Indiana University School of Education. This collection consists primarily of papers associated with Johnnie Rutland Smith's participation in the 1955 White House Conference on Education and the 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth.
Danilo Orescanin was a long time administrator associated with Indiana University in a variety of administrative roles. This collection contains speech files from his time as Vice President for University Relations between 1983 and 1987.
The Board of Student Publications was established by the IU Board of Trustees on September 5, 1946, as it was thought that increased enrollment triggered by the G.I. Bill of Rights would cause a demand for more student publications. The primary function of the Board was to formulate policies on matters such as budgetary issues, the hiring of student staff, and general business procedures. The collection is organized in one series, Meeting files. Each folder contains the minutes corresponding to the meeting date on the folder as well as correspondence, memos, reports and newspaper clippings relating to that meeting.
The Indiana University Cosmopolitan Club was founded in 1916 and received its charter from the Corda Fratres Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs in 1918. The Club was dedicated to fostering understanding and fraternity between foreign and American students in order to promote international cooperation and peace. The collection consists of correspondence, programs, financial records, membership lists, and newspaper clippings. Also included are publications, including issues of the Club newsletter, the Cosmo reporter.
John Robert Cravens was a graduate of Indiana University. This collection includes correspondence and lecture notes from John Robert Cravens' senior year at Indiana University, 1839-1840. He later became a lawyer and one of Indiana's leading statesmen.
Indiana University alumnus; enlisted in the U.S. Army in 1940, where he served as a dentist through the end of the war. Greene returned to Indiana and established a successful dental practice in Indianapolis. Collection chiefly consists of the near daily correspondence between Greene and his wife, Lovilla Horne Greene, during his service as a dentist in World War II. In the letters, Greene describes life as a military dentist such as how many patients he saw on a given day or the places he visited while on leave. Also included in the papers is the 1991 film entitled A World War II odyssey of an Indiana dentist, which was narrated by Greene and includes his personal movie footage and photographs from World War II. Twenty-six photographs and numerous negatives were removed and transferred to the Archives Photograph Collection.
The first president of what was then Indiana College was elected by the Board of Trustees in 1829. Gerald L. Bepko served as interim president of Indiana University January through July 2003. Collection consists of one series, Subject files, and is comprised of records collected and created by Bepko and his office during his six month tenure as interim president of Indiana University. A wide range of topics are covered in the records, including IU athletics, the regional campuses, and Bepko's files on the I-69 controversy.
Roger G. Newton was a Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Physics at Indiana University. His primary research interests include field theory, scattering theories, nuclear and high energy physics, elementary particles, quantum mechanics, and mathematical physics. The collection consists of Newton's papers created and collected during his tenure at IU, including correspondence, files on committees and conferences, review board records and materials relating to his books. No teaching files are included in this collection.
The Graduate School at Indiana University was founded, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Advanced Degrees, on February 1, 1904. For many years, a Research Committee handled the many graduate research funding requests until the 1977-1978 school year, when the Office of Research and Graduate Development (R&GD) was established to govern higher research at IU. In 1989, R&GD merged with the University Graduate School to become Research and the University Graduate School (RUGS). To lead this program, George Walker was appointed Dean of the Graduate School and Associate Vice President for Research. The merger combined the financial resources of the two offices while unloading some of the recordkeeping and admission duties onto the individual schools within the university. As a result, RUGS administrators were better able to work on cultivating financial resources and to study graduate student concerns. Prominent in the collection are records reflecting the heavy research mission of the university, such as the files on the many research centers and institutions, which comprises more than half of the collection.
In 1938, Indiana University began to engage in radio activities. A room was set aside for use as a studio and control room, and a radio director and program director were hired. For years, radio classes were taught through several already established departments such as Speech and Journalism. At the Board of Trustees September 20, 1945 meeting, they approved the establishment of a Dept. of Radio as an "unattached" department under the Dean of Faculties. In 1953 it became the Department of Radio and Television within the College of Arts and Sciences and in 1974 the Department of Telecommunications. This collection contains the department chair's records from 1939-1963 and is comprised of correspondence, budgetary information, annual reports, information on various radio and television stations, and subject files. Records span the tenures of chairs Harry Skornia (1942-1953) and Elmer Sulzer (1954-1964).
Elisha Ballantine was a professor of mathematics, languages, and Greek at Indiana University from 1854 until his death in 1886. Collection consists of nine of Ballantine's religious sermons and lectures, including a eulogy for student Anton F.E. Boisen.
The first president of what was then Indiana College was elected by the Board of Trustees in 1829. Elvis J. Stahr, Jr. served as president of Indiana University from 1962-1968. Collection consists of records created or collected by the Indiana University Office of the President during Elvis Stahr's tenure, and includes correspondence, studies, and reports documenting the various administrative processes, committees, events and university departments and schools during this period.
Initially founded in 1970 as the Indiana University Division of Continuing Education, the School of Continuing Studies was established in 1975 to offer opportunities in education for students who were unable to attend traditional formal university programs. Collection includes correspondence, subject files, catalogs, reports, marketing information, and financial records.
William Lowe Bryan served as president of Indiana University 1902-1937. This collection consists almost entirely of incoming correspondence from the years 1913-1937. The files are arranged alphabetically, most often by the correspondent's surname, but also by subject or by name of the institution or department. The majority of the correspondence is addressed to Bryan but much of it is also addressed to other high ranking IU administrators such as Registrar John W. Cravens or University Secretary Ulysses Howe Smith.
The first president of what was then Indiana College was elected by the Board of Trustees in 1829. Herman B Wells was named interim president in 1937 and president in 1938, a position he held until 1962. Collection consists primarily of correspondence, reports, and publications. A particularly rich collection, correspondence is to and from Wells and other high ranking university administrators. The files are arranged alphabetically.
In 1914, the Bureau of Public Discussion was established as a part of the Extension Division of Indiana University to provide information on and to stimulate the intelligent discussion of current political, economic and social questions within the state. The collection consists of records from Robert Hattery's tenure as Director of the Bureau and includes correspondence, records related to Bureau programs, brochures, reports, administrative files, financial records, and course files.
Adam W. Herbert served as President of Indiana University 2003-2007. Collection consists of speeches given by President Herbert during his tenure at Indiana University as well as a few speeches he delivered as President Emeritus.
Joseph C. Muhler was an assistant professor of chemistry at Indiana University from 1951 to 1972, and research professor of dental science and director of the School of Dentistry's Dental Research Institute from 1972 until his retirement in 1984. Muhler was the leader of the team that developed the original formula for Crest toothpaste in the 1950s, and his interests included that of preventative dentistry and its practices. The collection consists primarily of papers related to Dr. Muhler's research interests and his activities at IU, including original research, publications, correspondence, teaching files, student theses and materials relating to professional organizations. Records related to his Crest research are included in the collection.
Horst Frenz was a professor in the Department of Comparative Literature and English at Indiana University from 1940-1981, and served as chair of the Comparative Literature department from its creation in 1949 until 1977. The collection consists of publications, correspondence, and records relating to Frenz's position at IU as well as his professional interests. There is some correspondence relating to the establishment of the Dept. of Comparative Literature.
Formerly part of the Department of Slavic Studies, the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures was established as an independent department in 1958. Fields of study in the department include concentrations on the languages, literature, and linguistics of the Slavic and non-Slavic East European peoples. Included in this collection are administrative files, faculty and teaching personnel files, and materials on the language programs and workshops sponsored by the department.
The Kelley Student Government (KSG) was founded in 2001 and serves as the official representative voice of the Kelley undergraduate student body in Indiana University's Kelley School of Business. This collection consists of committee and council notes, including those related to the Undergraduate Policy Committee and Executive Board; president's notes; meeting minutes; project ideas, and other materials related to KSG.
Joseph Bradford began acquiring land in Martinsville, Indiana, in the mid-1800s. The Bradford Sand Mining Company was founded by Joseph's son, Perry Bradford, in 1877 in Morgan County, Indiana. The family business was passed on to Albert and John Bradford in the early 1900s. It remained in the family until 1938 when John Bradford deeded 900 acres of the Bradford property to Indiana University. This property is currently known as the Bradford Woods. The Bradford family papers span 1831-1941 and consist of various financial and business records related to their property, as well as documentation of family history and family correspondence. The correspondence primarily dates from 1898 and consists largely of letters written to the Bradfords by Eliza (Bradford) and husband Dr. Grant Monical from Camp George in Georgia and later Cuba where Grant was a Captain in the Spanish-American War.
The Robert. A. and Sandra S. Borns Jewish Studies Program was established on the Bloomington campus in 1972 with the aid of a Lilly Endowment. It is now one of the largest and oldest programs supporting the interdisciplinary study of the Jewish people and civilization. The collection consists of the program's administrative and subject files documenting the creation and growth of the program and includes correspondence, reports, newsletters, videos, and photographic material.
The Indiana University Bloomington Staff Council was officially formed in November 1951, following authorization by the Board of Trustees. The Staff Council consisted of a body of representatives elected by and from the university employee staff. It provided University staff members with organized representation and a medium of exchange with University administration by which to advocate for staff rights and benefits. The collection consists of correspondence, agendas, minutes, policy materials, and financial information.
James B. Christoph served as professor of political science and West European studies from 1967 until retiring with emeritus status in 1990. His main area of interest was British politics; much of his research, publications, and other professional activities were focused on this topic. Included in this collection is correspondence, teaching materials, faculty annual reports, and other items pertaining to his professional interests and activities, such as conference presentations.
The Folklore Students' Association (FSA) is a student run organization supported by the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology and Indiana University. The collection consists of correspondence, newsletters, meeting minutes and reports.
Creation of a Safety Department at Indiana University was authorized in 1939. In 1971 the University gained the right to appoint police officers and University Safety became a fully empowered law enforcement agency. A new organizational structure for the Office of University Safety, implemented in 1971 and revised in 1973, included the I.U. Police Academy, which operated a police cadet program. Collection includes annual reports, policy and procedure manuals, training information and correspondence. Most prominent are records related to the police cadet program.
Ruth C. Engs served as a professor of applied health sciences at Indiana University, joining the faculty in 1973 and retiring with emeritus status in 2003. Her main areas of research included the study of the determinants of drinking behavior, especially that of university students, and the study of the role of alcohol in society in cross-cultural and historical contexts. The Ruth C. Engs papers contain documentation on her scholastic career, including files related to research, publications, and professional activities. The collection also contains subject correspondence, teaching files, personal and administrative files, and audiovisual and computer media.
L.L. Waters was a professor of Transportation and Business History in the Indiana University School of Business from 1948 until his retirement in 1978. Waters was a recognized authority on transportation and business. The Waters papers include a large amount of correspondence, material related to conferences and professional organizations, teaching files, manuscripts, and published works.
Retiring from long careers in urban ministry and social work in 1934, Indiana University alumni Frank O. Beck and his wife Daisy returned to their alma mater to serve as unofficial counselors to the student body and the administration. Collection consists of correspondence, research, publications, biographical material, and records relating to their gift of Beck Chapel. Prominent in the collection are Frank's research and writing on race relations, aging, and social and economic equality in Chicago.
Since its inception, the Government Publications Department (GPD) at Indiana University has aimed to offer free access of government publications and other information to the general public. The GPD, now known as Government Information and Kent Cooper Services, houses records from city, county, state and federal governments, as well as many publications from foreign governments and international organizations. The collection consists of correspondence, reports, statistics, policy changes, and other information regarding GPD administration.
Established in 1962, Indiana University's Undergraduate Library (UGL) was intended to offer more relevant services to IU's undergraduate students than what was being provided by the Main Library. Having officially changed its name to Undergraduate Library Services (UGLS), the department is extant today and is still offering many of the resources it once did in its early years, such as a browsing collection, a Media Center, and a career references section. This collection consists of a variety of records that pertain to the history and administration of UGLS, such as statistics, financial documents, policies, building maintenance and renovation. The collection also contains information on student-related activities and programs hosted by UGLS.
Indiana University's Foster Quad Student Government was established shortly after the opening of the dormitory in 1962. The collection consists of minutes, agendas, bills, subject files, publications, and correspondence.
Completed in 1955, the Center was originally known as the Smithwood Center and intended as a new dormitory for female students. In 1960, the Center was renamed Daniel Read Residence Center to honor the late professor of ancient languages who taught Indiana University's first female students. The Council is made up of representative groups from within the Center, including center staff. It oversees any aspect of center life affecting students and staff and serves as an open forum for staff and students to proactively address center issues, to create center programming, to efficiently use community resources, and to help sponsor events. The collection spans the years 1975-2002 and consists primarily of minutes from Council meetings but also includes handbooks and manuals related to the Council and residence hall living. The folders, and the materials in them, are in their original order.
Mary Jo Weaver served as a professor in the Department of Religious Studies at Indiana University from 1975 until her retirement in 2006. Her teaching career, scholarly activities, professional service, and publications are represented in the contents of this collection.
Leo F. Solt, professor emeritus of History and dean of the University Graduate School, taught at the University of Iowa and the University of Massachusetts before joining the Indiana University faculty in 1955. In 1978 he was named dean of the University Graduate School, a position he held until 1987. The collection consists of biographical records, research notes, correspondence, and lecture notes.
Fred Walter Householder Jr. was a prominent professor of linguistics and classics at Indiana University Bloomington and an important figure within the field of linguistics. The collection contains materials from courses Householder taught at Indiana University, research files of his studies abroad, language materials and records from the Linguistic Atlas Project, or the LANCS project.
Held annually since 1940, the Indiana University Writers' Conference provides workshops and classes that offer writers of all levels the opportunity to learn from a faculty of well-known and award-winning authors. Correspondence between Conference staff and potential faculty members as well as various administrative files are represented in the contents of this collection.
Byrum E. Carter was appointed Chancellor of Indiana University in 1969, after serving over two decades as an IU faculty member. Carter also played an important role in the political dynamics on campus during the heat of the Vietnam War. This collection is comprised of correspondence, reports, and administrative files dating primarily from Carter's years as Chancellor and Vice President of Indiana University's Bloomington campus, between July 1969 and June 1975.
The doctoral program in IU's School of Business dates from 1947 when a Ph.D. was approved by the university trustees. Since that time, over 1,000 candidates have graduated from the program. This collection contains files dating from the tenure of Schuyler F. Otteson as chairman of the doctoral program (1965-1971), and includes correspondence and administrative files.
John Ryan was Indiana University's 14th president and served the institution for 30 years. Ryan was instrumental in the creation and inaugurals of eight I.U. charter campuses. This collection consists of Dr. Ryan's president emeritus records, including documents concerning his activities in international affairs and speeches he gave between 1987-2011.
The Indiana Club was established at Indiana University on December 9, 1904. The goal of the club was to advance the interests of the student body in the social, literary, political, and athletic realms. This collection consists of minute books, registers, a book on the history of the organization through 1915, records from the Alumni Association of the Indiana Club, and other documents.
Established in 1975 as the Annuitants' Association of Indiana University, the Indiana University Retirees Association is an organization for retired IU employees. Its primary purpose is to make information on retirement funds and on local social activities available to its members. The IU Retirees Association records contains correspondence with university administrators, minutes of the board, membership rosters, and copies of the association's newsletter, Newswatch.
Collection consists of the papers of George List (1911-2008), Professor of Folklore, Director of the Inter-American Program in Ethnomusicology (1966-1976), and Director of the Archives of Traditional Music (1954-1976) at Indiana University. His primary research interests included folk music, the traditional music of the Hopi tribes of Northern Arizona, and the music of indigenous tribes in the Caribbean regions of Colombia and the Andes and Amazon regions of Ecuador. This collection includes personal and professional correspondence, publications, research, subject files, audiovisual content, and many of his musical compositions.
John W. Ryan served as Indiana University's president for 16 years. This collection includes correspondence files, and administrative records related to the management of various offices and departments on campus and of the regional campuses.
Established in 1968 by then Interim President Herman B Wells, the Committee on Historic Preservation sought to provide a leadership role on historic preservation efforts across the State of Indiana. The collection consists of correspondence, memos, and reports created and collected by Donald F. Carmony, who served as the first chair until 1971 and John B. Patton, who served as chair from 1974-1978.
John W. Ryan served as the fourteenth president of Indiana University from 1971-1987. During this time, he was awarded many honors, including honorary degrees, and was active in many organizations. These organizations include the Air Force's Air University, American Society for Public Administration, Indiana Bell Telephone Company, College of St. Thomas, and State Life Insurance Company. These papers include records regarding his membership in various organizations outside and apart from IU, teaching files, speeches as well as correspondence and other personal files.
The Browning Society of Indiana University was established about 1916 as a social society to discuss the works of poet Robert Browning and issues associated with mid-late nineteenth century society. The collection consists of a book of the society's meeting minutes and includes information about active members.
Martha Lipton was a prolific performer at the New York Metropolitan Opera as a mezzo-soprano for sixteen seasons. She was a soloist who sang under the direction of many renowned conductors before coming to Indiana University Bloomington as a Professor of Voice in 1960. This collection contains professional promotional materials, clippings and performance programs spanning her career.
Established in 1937, the Indiana University Committee on Religion served as a clearinghouse for religious activities for students and faculty of all faiths and beliefs. The collection consists primarily of annual reports and meeting minutes.
The University of Islamabad project focused on establishing a residential postgraduate university with an emphasis on advanced teaching and research in science and technology in Islamabad, Pakistan. This project was funded by the Ford Foundation and administered by the Office of the Dean of Research and Advanced Studies. The project began in 1966 and ended in the 1970s, upon completion of the construction of a new campus, the end of a faculty recruitment campaign, and the development of Master's and Doctorate programs in the sciences. The collection contains files related to the creation and development of the university, blueprints for new buildings, and a series of materials from similar programs used as reference for this and other international programs administered by Indiana University.
The University of Dacca Institute of Business Administration project in Dacca, East Pakistan was administered by the Indiana University School of Business from 1966-1970 through a grant from the Ford Foundation. The project was designed to establish a graduate level university program to provide training, research, and consulting services in modern management methods to students in East Pakistan. The IBA offered an MBA degree, diploma programs, and short courses in the fields of management, research studies on business problems, and consulting services for the business community. Conflict in the region forced the project to end when East Pakistan seceded from Pakistan and became the independent state of Bangladesh in 1971. The collection is organized into one series of Administrative files and is arranged chronologically.
The office of Vice President of Administration was established during the 1974 University reorganization and was responsible for the management of a wide range of University functions. The office's diverse duties included budgetary administration, management services, computing systems, and intercollegiate athletic programs. This collection consists of records created and collected during the tenure of Herbert Glenn Ludlow, who served as Vice President of Administration from 1975-1981. The collection is organized into three series: Correspondence, Committee files, and Reports.
The records in this collection document the Indiana University Beta Gamma Chapter of the Alpha Kappa Psi fraternity between the years 1939-1983 with the bulk of the collection being created after 1945. The collection consists of minutes, membership lists, later editions of their constitution and by-laws, chapter songs, president's files, and a limited amount of correspondence within the local chapter and with the national organization.
Camilla Williams was an internationally acclaimed soprano opera vocalist who broke racial bias barriers in society as well as professionally. Miss Williams came to Indiana University in 1977 as a professor of voice at the Jacobs School of Music. The collection contains performance posters, correspondence, clippings about her career and former student's accomplishments, photographs, awards, plaques, and scrapbooks.
Bernard M. Fry served as the Dean of Indiana University's Graduate Library School from 1967 to 1980 and upon his retirement in 1984 he became Professor Emeritus of Library Science. Under Fry's leadership, the Research Center for Library and Information Science was established, and the Graduate Library School was recognized both nationally and internationally as a top five school in the field. The collection is comprised of materials relating to Fry's activities as Dean of the Graduate Library School. The majority of the collection consists of administrative and proposed research study files related to the Research Center for Library and Information Science.
James Madison is the Thomas and Kathryn Miller Professor Emeritus of History at Indiana University. He graduated from Indiana University and has spent nearly his entire career teaching at IU. The collection largely consists of materials relating to his written works and extensive service activities both at IU and within the state. Of particular interest are the notes and drafts for his books Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977 (1989), Indiana Through Tradition and Change (1982), and The Indiana Way: A State History (1986). The collection also contains correspondence, class syllabi, various committee materials, and materials related to his activities within the History Department.
Collection consists of the papers of Marina Svetlova, a highly accomplished ballet dancer, choreographer, and Indiana University Professor. The collection contains a journal, performance programs, correspondence, news clippings, photographs, and scrapbooks.
Menahem Pressler has been a professor of music at Indiana University, Bloomington since 1955, and an internationally acclaimed concert pianist since 1940. Pressler is recognized as one of the world's premier chamber musicians, solo performers, group artists, and pedagogues, and currently holds the rank of Distinguished Professor of Music as the Charles Webb Chair at Indiana University's Jacobs School of Music. His papers include biographical information, clippings, and program booklets.
Wilmer H. Baatz served as the Assistant Library Director at Indiana University from 1966-1986. He was responsible for building up the Afro-American studies collection and the cooperative project between all IU campuses to allow faculty to borrow materials from all state universities. The collection consists of administrative records and correspondence related to Baatz's time as assistant director.
The Indiana University Libraries have existed for the length and tenure of the University itself. As the University has grown, so have the libraries, its holdings, and its staff, and this growth has resulted in the 8 campus and more than 10 million volume system that exists today. The Indiana University Libraries' publications consists of publications the Department has published during the period from 1944-2001.
Clarence Joseph Bulliet (later Bulleit) was born March 16, 1883 and died October 20, 1952. An American author, art critic and poet, this small collection consists entirely of correspondence sent to his fiancee Katherine Adams during his time as a student at Indiana University, 1902-1904.
Alfred Diamant was a professor of Political Science at Indiana University from 1967 to 1988 and served as the Chair of Political Science and West European Studies. He taught all levels of political science from introductory to doctoral courses with a special interest in comparative government. This collection consists of Diamant's academic papers including class material, student correspondence, and personal publications.
Marvin Carmack was a professor of chemistry at Indiana University who specialized in organic chemistry and the study of lithospermum ruderale, among other research interests. The collection consists of Carmack's personal and professional correspondence, extensive research notes from his two university appointments and numerous private laboratory work, teaching materials from a variety of classes he taught as well as research notes from some of his students.
Since 1983, the Grunwald Gallery of Art, formerly the School of Fine Arts Gallery (SoFA), has presented contemporary works by both professional and student artists in a special exhibition format. The records in this collection include exhibition publicity, audio and visual materials, and photographic slides spanning 1970-2015.
Faye Calvert Abrell attended Indiana University and graduated with both a BS in Education in 1936 and a MS in Education in 1941. Following her time at Indiana University, Abrell spent 1946-1947 teaching in the Dependents School Service in war-torn Frankfurt, Germany and was involved in the Allied Forces mission of effecting a permanent peace. The majority of the collection reflects Abrell's year spent teaching abroad and includes correspondence, photographs, scrapbooks she made and souvenirs she collected while in Germany.
Doris Joan Richards Neff graduated from Indiana University in 1949 with a BA in Physical Education with High Distinction. This collection consists of four scrapbooks she compiled while she was at IU, one for each school year, containing materials related to her social activities during that time.
With a history dating back to 1895, the Chemistry library was initially housed in Wylie Hall, however with the completion of the Chemistry building in the 1930s it relocated and remains in that location to this day. The collection consists primarily of administrative files such as handbook, notes and memos.
The Indiana University Folklore Institute is an active center of folklore scholarship and has a long history of collecting oral literature and arts. This collection consists of papers written on a variety of material culture topics by students taking courses in the Folklore Institute. These papers are dated roughly between 1960 through the early 1980s.
This collection consists of maps, audio recordings, news reports, advertisements, committee notes, photographs, and story transcripts for the campus ghost walks organized by the Indiana University Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology. The ghost walks are annual tours that feature ghost legends tied to well-known places on campus and the Bloomington, Indiana, area.
Margaret Albersmeyer Werling graduated from Indiana University with a BS in Education in 1953, and she earned an MS in Education in 1961. Werling's scrapbook contains photographs of campus buildings, the 1953 NCAA championship campus celebration, Little 500, the Fall Carnival parade, and commencement as well as tickets and programs from football games, IU Auditorium events, dance cards, and clippings related to campus life.
Born in 1897, Helen Dale Hopkins entered Indiana University as a freshman in the fall of 1915. She was an active member of the Classical Club, Browning Society, Pi Beta Phi, and was elected to the student honorary Phi Beta Kappa. She graduated with an A.B. in Latin with Distinction in 1918. Following graduation, she married Donald Wampler in 1928 and retired as a Latin teacher from Ben Davis High School in 1963. This collection consists primarily of correspondence between Helen and her mother during her time as a student at Indiana University.
The Indiana University Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology was formally established in 2000 through the merging of the Department of Folklore (1978-2000) and the Ethnomusicology Institute (1980-2000) and is the parent department of the IU Folklore Institute and IU Ethnomusicology Institute. This collection contains administrative files, subject files, correspondence, files and audio recordings of the Special Projects unit, grant and budget information, and conference files produced by the department and its affiliated institutes from 1942 through 2010.
Herman B Wells served as president of Indiana University from 1937 through 1962 and University Chancellor from 1962 through 2000. In 1964, Wells occupied the house on the corner of 10th Street and Jordan Avenue in Bloomington now known as the Herman B Wells House. This collection contains handwritten and typed recipes and related items that were collected by Wells and individuals employed at the Wells House, including recipes for desserts, appetizers, main and side dishes, salads, and condiments.
The Indiana University Honors Program in Foreign Languages for High School Students (IUHPFL) began operations in 1962 as an intensive summer foreign language and study abroad program for Indiana high school students. The program began with three sites, one each in France, Germany, and Mexico, and by 2018 had expanded to twelve sites in eight countries. The collection consists of administrative documents, promotional materials, teaching and instructional materials, and scrapbooks, ephemera, and photographs.
Indiana University faculty members and student groups organized campus springtime May Day celebrations as early as 1897. From 1908 through at least 1928, the Women's Athletic Association and IU Department of Physical Education for Women organized the official campus May Festival, which featured dance exercises by female students and musical performances. This collection contains May Festival programs dating from 1897 through 1928, as well as a student ticket to a 1926 May Day event.
Edna Hatfield Edmondson was a faculty member in the Indiana University Extension Division from 1919 through 1942. This collection consists of letters that Edmondson wrote to Frank R. Elliott, Director of Publicity at IU, while she was on a trip to Japan with the Indiana University baseball team in April-May 1922.
Daniel W. Biddle (1870-1954) was a student at Indiana University from September 1893 through Spring 1895. This collection consists of letters that Daniel W. Biddle wrote to his parents and his friend Janie Bartee during his attendance at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana from 1893-1895. The letters document Biddle's social and academic life at IU through details on his interactions with his roommates, classmates, and professors; his studies and laboratory work; and events on campus and in the Bloomington community, including an 1895 student protest supporting the removal of IU to Indianapolis.
Sandra Dolby is an alumna and faculty member of the department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology at Indiana University. She taught Folklore courses at IU from 1979 to 2010, during which time she also taught American Studies at Norway as a Fulbright Traveling Scholar. The collection reflects her interests in pedagogy, American Studies, and the application of literary theory to the study of folklore and personal narrative. It contains syllabi and teaching materials, manuscripts and presentations about her research, and documents from her service in and out of the university, as well as biographical materials.
Charlie Nelms (b. 1946) served in executive leadership roles for the Indiana University system for a total of twenty-four years between 1978 and 2007. This collection spans Nelms' personal life and professional career in university administration at IU and other institutions. The collection includes writings, correspondence, publications and reports, and ephemera.
The I Association (formerly I-Men Association (1913-2006) and I-Women Association (1982-2006)) honors exceptional athletes at Indiana University Bloomington. This collection contains files about I Association alumni events and event planning, Board of Directors meeting information, I Association membership, and email, letter, and memo correspondence between I Association staff and alumni.
The Bloomington Gay Alliance was an umbrella organization that coordinated many smaller activist and social groups of the Bloomington LGBTQ+ community during the 1970s and 80s. This collection consists of ten newsletters the group published.
New Horizons was an independent community center founded in 1975 that intended to serve the increasingly open LGBTQ+ population in Bloomington. It did so by providing a physical space for the community to meet and gather, as well as supporting programming such as classes, organization for protests, and dances. This collection consists of newsletters and flyers produced by this organization.
Formed in 1980, Integrity/Bloomington was the local chapter of Integrity/International, a nationwide LGBTQ+ advocacy and support group affiliated with the Protestant Episcopal Church. This collection consists of some of the newsletters it produced.
Lynn M. Jamieson was an active faculty member at Indiana University, Bloomington from 1983 to 2018. Jamieson joined the Indiana University Department of Recreation and Park Administration as an Associate Professor, then was promoted to full professorship in 2001 and later became chair of the renamed Department of Recreation, Park and Tourism, among other administrative responsibilities. This collection represents research materials collected by Jamieson as well as her professional activity at IU.

On December 31, 1924, representatives from 14 universities met in Chicago to discuss the establishment of a new social science honorary society. At that meeting, they approved the following resolutions: 
A national organisation should be adopted.
Alpha Pi Zeta is a very fitting name for the organisation.
This organisation shall have the character of an honorary society.
It shall encourage investigation and scholarship in the field of the social sciences.
The local societies should exercise a large degree of autonomy as to the methods of work and details of organisation.
Until the question of uniform membership is decided by national action of the society, the matter of the determination of full, associate, honorary and permanent membership shall be left to the chapters according to their separate problems and situations.
The name Alpha Pi Zeta derives from the initials of Aristotle's characterization of man, "anthropos politikon zoon." The purpose of the society was to encourage the investigation and scholarship in the social sciences. Chapters could be established at any educational institution that offered a "considerable amount" of advanced graduate work in the social sciences. Active membership was open to professors, instructors, or staff members of the institution who had shown achievement in social sciences as well as graduate students who had shown "initiative, independence and ability to carry on sustained investigation in one of these sciences." The IU society met monthly during the school year. At the meetings, they discussed developments in social science scholarship and had featured speakers on a social science topic. Speakers were sometimes IU faculty members, other times campus visitors. By the mid-1930s, meetings were more infrequent, and the minute book reports "No regular meetings were held during 1936-37 or 1937-38. Special meetings were held on call of the President to consider special emergency problems pertaining to the field of the Social Sciences." At their October 3, 1939 meeting, then-President Moffatt moved that meetings be held only upon call of the officers. This is the last entry in the minute book, although there are a few loose minutes dating from the 1939-1940 school year as well as a few items in the collection from later years, including a 1950 meeting announcement. However, due to a lack of minutes, the main activities of the society are not known after 1942. 
This series of conferences was held annually at IU from 1950 through 1956. It was organized by a committee under the general direction of the office of President Herman B Wells in co-operation with the US Department of State, and with funding from the Lilly Endowment. The primary organizational work was done by Peter Fraenkel of the President's office and Austin V. Clifford of the Law School. Others who were active in organizing the conferences included Edward Buehrig, Department of Government; Frank Lee Benns, Department of History; and John T. Hays, of Hays & Hays Law Firm. The conferences sought to bring State Department officials together with academic and civic leaders from the Midwest for frank discussions of current foreign policy problems. In this they were successful. However, recognizing that they were not moving beyond discussions of current events to the deeper issues of the nature and purpose of foreign policy per se, the committee determined to end the conference in its current form in the spring of 1957. Planning for a renewed conference continued into 1960, but none was held. 
John Paul Lunstrum was born on 4 June 1922 to Ruth Williams and Melvin A. Lunstrum in Terre Haute, Indiana. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II from 1943-1946. He married Joann Sisson and they had two children, Kathryn and Thomas John. Lunstrum received his B.S. in 1948 from Indiana State University with majors in speech and social science and his M.S. in 1953 from Indiana State University with a major in social science. He received his Ed.D. from Indiana University, Bloomington, in 1960 with a major in secondary education and minors in guidance and history. Lunstrum began his teaching career as a history teacher at Wiley High School in Terre Haute, Indiana. He held this position for ten years. During his time at Indiana University, Bloomington, from 1959-1965, he served as the Coordinator for School Social Studies in the College of Arts and Sciences and as an Associate Professor of Education. From 1965-1966, under Indiana University contract, he served as Education Advisor to the Peace Corps in Sierra Leone, West Africa. Dr. Lunstrum was very active in the education community and held offices in various professional organizations. He served as the chairman of the I.C.S.S. (Indiana Council for the Social Studies) Academic Freedom Committee and as the chairman of the N.C.S.S. (National Council for the Social Studies) Audio Visual Committee. He was also one of the founders of the Asian Institute at Indiana University, which sponsored summer programs in Asian and Russian Studies for primary and secondary teachers. He was a strong proponent of incorporating non-western history into the social studies curriculums of both primary and secondary schools. During his time at Indiana University Lunstrum contributed research to such publications as Social Education, Phi Delta Kappan, Audio Visual Instruction, and Teaching About Communism: Bulletin of the Indiana State Department of Public Instruction.
Lunstrum died on March 21, 2018. 
Established in 1977 in response to the Supreme Court decision (Abington School District v. Schempp & Murray v. Curlett, 1963) that prohibited the practice of religion in public schools though encouraged the continual teaching about religion, the Indiana Religious Studies Project sought to improve how religion was presented to high school students. The goal of the program was to further educate and train secondary teachers so they would have a better knowledge of religious studies and possess other resources, such as lesson plans and curriculum ideas, to use when teaching their students about various religions. Each year, the Project brought together approximately 18 secondary school teachers from Indiana public schools to Indiana University for a six-week training seminar (following the 1979 program, the project was shortened to three- and four-weeks). During these sessions, the teachers attended classes and lectures taught by faculty from the Department of Religious Studies at Indiana University and Wabash College. The participants also prepared presentations and lesson plans that focused on a variety of areas of study such as world religions, religious theory, and religious texts. The Project gained funding from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Lilly Foundation and flourished for nearly seven years. In 1984, the Project lost funding, and it officially ended in July of that year, though it would publish its newsletter until 1985. 
In the summer of 1949, the presidents and comptrollers of Indiana University, Purdue University, Indiana State Teachers College, and Ball State Teachers College got together to discuss the formation of a committee to solve a problem posed by the Indiana State Legislation. In the previous months a law had been passed concerning the state budget and its distribution among the state schools. The law stated: 
1. Cost per student both on-campus and off-campus
2. Number of students, including the number of students in each department
3. Number of out-of-state students
4. Housing costs, etc.
Charles S. Hyneman was born in 1900 on a farm in Gibson County, Indiana. He received the A.B. degree from Indiana University in 1923, and his A.M. in 1925. After pursuing graduate work at the University of Pennsylvania, he moved on to the University of Illinois, where he received his PhD in 1929. Professor Hyneman taught political science at Syracuse University from 1928-1930 before returning to Illinois as assistant professor from 1930-37. In 1937 he became professor and chairman of the department of government at Louisiana State University. He became director of the new school of government and public affairs the following year, and was instrumental in organizing the Louisiana Municipal Association and initiating a merit system for the state civil service. During World War II, Hyneman held three successive government posts. As administrative analyst in the Bureau of the Budget, he oversaw matters relating to the Office of Civil Defence. Later he worked in the Office of the Provost Marshall General in the War Department as Chief of the Training Branch, selecting ten universities to serve as centers for the training of civil affairs officers. Finally, he worked in the Federal Communications Commission, first as the Director of the Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service, and next as Assistant to the Chairman and then Executive Officer of the FCC. In January 1947 Hyneman returned to teaching as professor and later chairman of the political science department of Northwestern University. At this time he also served as secretary of the Civil Service Board regulating employment in the Chicago Sanitary District. Hyneman joined the political science faculty at Indiana University in 1956, and in 1961 was named as a Distinguished Professor. He retired in 1970 with the title Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Political Science. Hyneman was a visiting professor at George Washington University, the University of Minnesota, Stanford University, UCLA, and the University of Washington. He served as President of the American Political Science Association from 1960-61. He produced innumerable articles and many books: The First American Neutrality (1935), Bureaucracy in a Democracy (1950), The Study of Politics (1959), The Supreme Court on Trial (1963), A Second Federalist (1967), Popular Government in America (1968), Voting in Indiana (1979), American Political Writing During the Founding Era (1983), and The American Founding Experience (1994), the last published posthumously. He also left two sizeable unpublished manuscripts, Government and Politics in the United States, and many chapters of a book on the American political system to have been co-authored by Hubert H. Humphrey. Dr. Hyneman died in 1985. 
The Central Scholarship Committee was a general committee for evaluating applications for scholarships and student aid. Under this general committee were several subcommittees which specialized in particular scholarships or forms of student aid. 
The Office of Military Information was created 1 July 1942 at Indiana University to advise students, parents, faculty members, and the general public about war service opportunities and regulations. Indiana University hosted several programs during World War II to prepare young men and women for military and civil service. Several of these programs placed students on inactive duty in the military until the completion of the program, at which time they were placed on active duty. United States Naval Training School (June 1942 - May 1944) prepared men and women for service in the Navy, the Coast Guard, and the Marine Corps. Two specialized Naval training programs offered additional training. The V- 12 unit furnished training for medical and dental students. The V-7 program, open to juniors and seniors, required two semesters of mathematics and one course in plane trigonometry. Other programs included the Army Enlisted Reserve Corps (ERC) which accepted men between 18 and 45 years of age. Requirements for the ERC consisted of passing the officers' candidate physical exam and being a United States citizen who had not received a bachelors' degree. The Army Specialized Training Program (June 1943 - March 1946) focussed upon basic engineering and foreign area and language education. In September 1942, the Women's Auxiliary Training Corps (WATC) furnished female students with training which prepared them for service in one of the various women's reserves organizations. With peace declared in 1945, the Office of Military Information had served its war-time mission and was dissolved in 1947. 
Charlotte A. Lowe was born September 7, 1867, in Indianapolis, Indiana. She attended elementary and high school in Indianapolis and graduated second in her class from Shortridge High School in 1885. She entered Indiana University and graduated with an A.B. in Greek in 1888. In a letter by then-President David Starr Jordan, he wrote, "Her rank in college was the very highest--in many studies higher than any other woman who has graduated from the University." Lowe continued her studies and received her Master of Arts in 1889. That same year, Lowe also married William J. Bryan, who changed his name to William Lowe Bryan in her honor. In 1902, WLB assumed the presidency of Indiana University, a position he held until 1937. Although quite ill throughout most of her husband's presidency, Charlotte remained an active member of the University community in her role of "First Lady." In addition to numerous other projects and involvements, Charlotte oversaw the design and construction of the Bryan House, which still serves as the President's home on campus today.
Charlotte Lowe Bryan died on August 26, 1948. 
Rosa Smith was born on October 7, 1858 to Lucretia and Charles Kendall Smith in Monmouth, Illinois. The family moved to San Diego, California in 1876. She completed her secondary education at the Point Loma Seminary in San Diego and also attended a five-week course at a business college in San Francisco. Smith had a lifelong interest in natural history and became the first woman to be a full member of the San Diego Society of Natural History. In 1879, she met David Starr Jordan, a professor of natural history at Indiana University, who invited her to study at IU. Smith studied at IU for two years and spent the summer of 1880 touring Europe with Professor Jordan and other students and faculty from IU. Family obligations caused Smith to return to San Diego in 1882 before completing her undergraduate degree.
After returning to San Diego, Smith continued her studies of fish including the blind goby fish she discovered. She published several articles that provided formal descriptions of various species of fish. Smith also worked as a journalist and as a secretary and librarian for the San Diego Society of Natural History. While at IU, she met Carl Eigenmann who was working on his Ph.D. The two continued to correspond after she returned to San Diego, and they were married at Smith's home on August 20, 1887. The Eigenmanns often collaborated with each other on their scientific research and published numerous articles together. After their marriage, they went to Harvard University where they studied the Agassiz collections of fish. Smith was also granted special student status at Harvard to study cryptogamic botany from 1887-1888. In 1889, the Eigenmanns returned to California where they established a biological station and continued their studies of fish in the region. They also held appointments as curators at the California Academy of Sciences. Additionally, the Eigenmanns spent considerable time in South America studying and collecting freshwater fish.
In 1891, the Eigenmanns returned to Bloomington, Indiana when Carl was appointed Professor of Zoology at Indiana University. Carl was later named chair of the Department of Zoology and the first Dean of the Graduate School. The Eigenmanns had five children: Lucretia Margaretha Eigenmann, Charlotte Elizabeth Eigenmann, Theodore Smith Eigenmann, Adele Rosa Eigenmann, and Thora Marie Eigenmann. Family responsibilities prevented Rosa from continuing her own research, but she worked as an editor for her husband's papers. In 1926, the Eigenmanns left Indiana and returned to San Diego. Carl Eigenmann died on April 24, 1927. Rosa continued to live in the San Diego area until her death on January 12, 1947 of chronic myocarditis after a series of difficult eye operations.
Rosa Smith Eigenmann was one of the first women ichthyologists. Eigenmann authored twelve papers on her own and co-authored twenty-five articles with her husband. The Eigenmanns have been credited with the identification of 35 new genera of fish and descriptions of almost 150 species of fish. Additionally, Rosa Smith Eigenmann is believed to be the first woman allowed to attend graduate-level classes at Harvard University, the first woman president of IU's Sigma Xi (an honorary science society) chapter, and the first woman to determine a new species of fish.
Henry Thew Stephenson was born on April 22, 1870 in Cincinnati, Ohio to Reuben Henry and Louise Wright Stephenson. He attended Woodward High School in Cincinnati. Stephenson graduated with a bachelor's degree from Ohio State University in 1894. He joined the faculty of the English Department at Indiana University in 1895. Stephenson took some time off to get a second bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1898. In 1900, he was appointed Assistant Professor. Stephenson remained with the IU English Department until his retirement in 1940 with the title Professor Emeritus of English. He served for two years as the Chairman of the English Department from 1919-1921. During his tenure he was a charter member of the Phi Beta Kappa Chapter at IU which began in 1910. That same year Stephenson was awarded an A.M. Privitam degree, which was created in order to confer alumni status on non-alumni faculty members who had a long service record or held a high rank. He was an author of several books including Patroon Van Volkenberg, The Fickle Wheel, Shakespeare's London, The Elizabethan People, and Christie Bell of Goldenrod Valley. Stephenson was also well-known as a teacher of Shakespeare.Stephenson married Agnes Ross Reynolds, an 1899 graduate of Indiana University with a bachelor's degree in English, on November 28, 1900. They had a daughter named Margaret. The couple remained married until Agnes's death in 1931. Stephenson died in 1957 at the age of 87. 
Thomas Ehrlich was born on March 4, 1934 in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He became president of Indiana University on August 1, 1987. During his presidency he concentrated on an academic agenda to enhance IU's position as an international research university of the first rank, and simultaneously a national leader in reaching out to higher education's emerging new majority of nontraditional students. Ehrlich is a scholar, educator, university administrator, lawyer, and governmental executive. He was Provost (chief academic officer responsible for all educational research components of the university and all aspects of student affairs) and Professor of Law at the University of Pennsylvania before serving as President at Indiana. In the 1970s Ehrlich was Dean and Richard E. Lang Professor at the Stanford University Law School; first President of Legal Services Corporation in Washington D.C.; and first Director of the International Development Cooperation Agency, also in Washington D.C. After graduating from law school, President Ehrlich served as a law clerk for highly respected Judge Learned Hand of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York City. Ehrlich became chair of the Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities' Big Ten Council of Presidents on July 1, and served on the boards of several national organizations. He has undertaken a number of special responsibilities for the United States government. In 1991 he was appointed by President Bush to the Board of Directors of the Commission on National and Community Service. He was reappointed in 1992 and served as Chairman of the Board. He also served as the executive-committee chair of Campus Compact, an organization of college and university presidents, formed to promote student volunteer service. He was graduated magna cum laude from both Harvard College (A.B. 1956) and Harvard Law School (LL.B. 1959). He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and served as Article Editor for the Harvard Law Review. He has three honorary degrees, from Notre Dame (1980), Villanova University (1979), and the University of Pennsylvania (1987), and is author or co-author of several books and many articles. In addition to his presidential duties at Indiana University, President Ehrlich served as professor of law and regularly taught undergraduates and law students. His tenure as president ended following the 1994 school year. After retiring from IU, he spent a semester teaching at Duke University before moving to California. He then moved to California where he became a Distinguished University Scholar at California State University and an adjunct professor at Stanford Law School. President Ehrlich and his wife, Ellen Rome Ehrlich, have three children, David, Elizabeth, and Paul. *Biography excerpted from 1993 Biographical Sketch with minor revisions. 
Herrick B. Young was born on February 8, 1904 and died on February 15, 1990. Young obtained three degrees: A.B. in English from Indiana University in 1925, a M.A. in Indo-Iranian Studies from Columbia University in 1928, and a Ph.D. in Education Administration from the University of Pennsylvania in 1936. Upon receiving his A.B., Young went to Tehran, Iran. There he taught English and Literature at Alborz College. While in Iran he met his future wife, Charlotte, who he married in 1928. From 1936 to 1950 Young was the Executive Secretary of the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions, and in this position traveled extensively to Africa, China, Japan, the Philippines, the Middle East, South America and southern Europe. From 1950-1953, Young was Executive Director of the International House, Inc., and from 1954-1969, Young served as President of the Western College for Women. In 1972, Young became President of the Near East Foundation. In the late 1970s, the Youngs returned to the United States and settled in Mt. Pleasant, Ohio, with a winter residence in Florida. During his lifetime, Young published nine books, thirty articles, and was managing editor of a magazine. Young also received numerous awards and honors including being named a Fellow of the Royal Geographic Society and of the Royal Central Asian Society, awarded honorary doctorates from two universities, served as a trustee and board member of numerous institutions, and was recipient of the Institute of International Education Award and of the Reader's Digest Foundation Award. 
Dr. Ernest Hiram Lindley was born October 2, 1869, to Hiram and Laura White Lindley in Paoli, Indiana. Lindley attended Indiana University where he received his Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy in 1893 and his Master of Arts in Philosophy in 1894. He received a Ph.D. from Clark University in 1897. After graduating with his bachelor's degree, Lindley was appointed instructor in Philosophy at Indiana University. He served as an Instructor in Philosophy at Indiana University from 1893-1897, as Assistant Professor from 1897-1898, as Associate Professor in Psychology (Department of Philosophy), 1898-1902, and as Psychology Professor and Head of Philosophy, 1902-1917. From 1917-1920, Lindley was President of the University of Idaho in Moscow, ID. He went on to become the Chancellor of the University of Kansas from 1920-1939. Lindley retired in 1939 and went on a tour of the Orient to study educational institutions. Dr. Lindley was an accomplished author and researcher. He belonged to the American Psychological Association, Religious Education Association, Western Philosophical Association, Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Chi. The Science Hall on IU's campus was renamed Lindley Hall after Ernest H. Lindley in 1957.Lindley married Elizabeth Kidder on September 18, 1895. They had two sons, Ernest Kidder Lindley and Stanley Bryan Lindley. Lindley died on August 21, 1940 while enroute to San Francisco from Japan on August and was buried at sea. Elizabeth Kidder Lindley was born on January 10, 1870, in Richmond, Indiana to Peter and Emily Kidder. She attended Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana from 1891-92 before coming to Indiana University. Lindley graduated from Indiana University in 1893 with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy. She married Ernest H. Lindley on September 18, 1895. They had a son Ernest Kidder Lindley in 1899 and another son Stanley Bryan Lindley in 1906. Alumni directories from Earlham College indicate Lindley was involved in woman suffrage work. She was traveling with her husband when he died. Lindley returned to Lawrence, Kansas where they had lived since 1920. She died in 1944. Ernest Kidder Lindley was born on July 14, 1899, in Richmond, Indiana. Lindley first attended Indiana University where he was a member of Phi Kappa Psi, The Indiana Union, and The Garrick Club. He later attended the University of Idaho where he served as Editor-in-chief of the student newspaper and graduated in 1920. Lindley served in the Army during World War I. After graduating from college, he was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship and spent three years studying at Oxford University in England. In 1924, Lindley joined the staff of The New York World as a reporter and political writer. He next worked at the New York Herald Tribune from 1931-1937. In 1937, Lindley became the Washington bureau chief of Newsweek and worked for the magazine until 1961. From 1938-1943, he worked for the Washington Post as a reporter and columnist. In 1961, Lindley became a special assistant to Secretary of State Dean Rusk and a member of the State Department's Policy Planning Council. He worked for the State Department until 1969. Additionally, Lindley worked as a commentator on network radio and television programs, a writer for various national magazines, and a lecturer on international affairs. Lindley wrote the first book about Franklin Roosevelt and authored several books related to Roosevelt and his policies. He was the winner of many journalistic awards and had several honorary degrees. In 1974, Lindley was elected a scholar by the Distinguished Alumni Service Award Club of Indiana University. On October 5, 1929, Lindley married Helen Elizabeth "Betty" Grimes. They had three sons, Jonathan, Christopher, and Mark. The couple were married until her death in 1976. At the time of his death, Lindley was married to Jean Gehman Lindley. He died on June 30, 1979 of cancer. 
The Faculty Seminar on Political and Administrative Development was established by the Department of Government, now the Department of Political Science, in 1962. Supported by a $105,000 grant from the Carnegie Corporation, it quickly became known simply as the Carnegie Seminar. Professor Fred W. Riggs was the Seminar's first director, assuming the post when the initial grant was awarded in February 1962. William Siffin was also involved as a co-coordinator of the Seminar, and assumed the directorship while Riggs was on leave from September 1962 to June 1963 and following Riggs' departure from Indiana University. The Carnegie Seminar brought together faculty and advanced graduate students at IU, as well as supporting the visits of faculty from other institutions. Funds from the Seminar's grant provided financial support which allowed faculty members to conduct research related to the Seminar's theme. Broadly stated, the Carnegie Seminar had three goals: to support studies in the field of political and administrative development using the resources and interests of Government Department faculty; to integrate diverse research by encouraging the development of basic theory; and to stimulate the flow of information between participants and scholars from other disciplines and institutions. Although funds from the Carnegie grant were exhausted in 1967, the "Carnegie Seminar" name continued to be used by the department for a number of years. 
Kate Hevner Mueller was born Kate Lucile Hevner on November 1, 1898 in Westmoreland, Pennsylvania. Her father was a minister and also worked for the YMCA, while her mother was a schoolteacher. She was a middle child, her sister, Edith Dell was older and her brother, George was younger. Upon graduating from Williamsport (Pennsylvania) High School in 1916, she attended Wilson College, in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania. At Wilson, her major was English, but a Psychology class sparked her interest in that discipline. After teaching mathematics at a high school for two years, she moved to New York to attend Columbia University, this time majoring in Psychology. The work of psychologist L.L. Thurstone at the University of Chicago inspired Kate Hevner to apply for a fellowship at that school to work under his direction towards a doctoral degree. Thurstone accepted her, and in 1928, she earned her doctoral degree in Psychology, with her thesis entitled, An Empirical Study of Three Psychophysical Methods. Coincidentally, John Mueller, her future husband, also earned his doctorate at the University of Chicago in 1928 (in Sociology), but the two did not meet until 3 years later. Upon earning her doctorate, Kate Hevner accepted a position at the University of Minnesota teaching Psychology. Not only did she teach introductory courses in Psychology, but also more advanced courses in Aesthetics, a special interest of hers which would lead the University of Oregon to "borrow" her to further develop her research in the study of the Aesthetics of Art. While working in Oregon in 1931, Kate Hevner first met John Mueller, who also had an interest in Aesthetics and Art. Letters began passing between the two, with greater and greater frequency, until they were married in 1935. Immediately after the wedding, the couple moved to Bloomington, Indiana, where John Mueller had accepted an associate professorship in Sociology. Kate Mueller taught part-time at the IU extension campus in Indianapolis until she accepted the position of Dean of Women at IU in 1938, a position she held for ten years. Even though her work in Psychology and her collaboration in the study of the Aesthetics of art with her husband continued, her new role as Dean of Women moved Kate Mueller to further explore the disciplines of Personnel and Guidance. She became a part of the National Association of Women Deans and Counsellors and editor of the NAWDC Journal throughout the 1960s. After her resignation from the Office of the Dean of Women in 1949, Kate Mueller became an associate professor in the Education department, teaching Psychology and later moving on to teaching graduate courses in Personnel and Guidance. Throughout these years, Kate Hevner Mueller developed into a prolific writer, a noted public speaker, and an esteemed scholar in the fields of Psychology and of Personnel and Guidance. The test for measuring appreciation of music she developed with Robert Seashore in the early 1930s became a standard for many years. In addition to scores of journal articles and corroborations with her husband, Kate Hevner Mueller also wrote Educating Women for a Changing World (1954), and Student Personnel Work in Higher Education, both highly regarded. She traveled the United States and abroad to lecture and to evaluate schools in the areas of Guidance programs, and increasingly, on the subject of women and their role in society. In 1965, John Mueller had reached the mandatory age of retirement at the University. Just two months after his retirement, however, on September 1st, 1965, John Mueller died after a brief fight with cancer. He was buried on his and Kate Mueller's thirtieth wedding anniversary. Despite the great loss she had suffered in losing both her husband and her partner in academic pursuits, Kate Mueller continued working well into the 1970s. She continued to teach at Indiana until 1969, and then teaching for a year at the University of Florida. Even after retirement, she was still highly sought as a speaker and advisor. In 1973, she finished the study that she and John Mueller had worked on intermittently for 30 years, Twenty-Seven Major American Symphony Orchestras: A History and Analysis of Their Repertoires, Seasons 1842-43 through 1969-1970. She continued pursuing her interests, spending more time travelling abroad and enjoying the rich cultural atmosphere at Indiana and in Bloomington. However, the last five years of her life were marked with illness and physical limitations on the engagement of her varied interests. Kate Hevner Mueller died August 10, 1984, five days after suffering a stroke. Throughout her life, Kate Hevner Mueller won numerous awards and honors, both for her research and her contributions to the areas of Psychology and Personnel and Guidance. 
A system-wide administrative office, the Office of State Relations (OSR) monitors and reacts to state government activities that influence operations at Indiana University. In this function, the office maintains a close watch on the state's executive branch, the Indiana General Assembly, the State Budget agency, and the Commission for Higher Education. Additionally, the office provides information to the university community, external agencies, and legislators. Throughout its history the office has functioned under numerous offices, but most recently it reports to the President's Office. 
Horace Hoffman was born on 30 July 1855 near Auburn, Indiana. The son of a minister turned farmer, the importance of education was highly regarded by his family. As a result through private instructors Hoffman was prepared for life in an academic setting. After teaching in country schools for five years, Hoffman entered Indiana University in 1877, where he graduated with his A.B. in 1881. For a brief period between 1881 and 1883 Hoffman taught Greek at Indiana University. With the encouragement of President Jordan, Hoffman left the University to pursue a degree from Harvard University where he received his A.M. in 1884. During Hoffman's service as Dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, the faculty abolished the grading system, instead choosing to use two criteria for judging student academic performance: "passed" or "not passed". Professor Hoffman, amongst others, was instrumental in attempting to discipline I.U. students who had participated in the "grand bolt" on February 12, 1896, Lincoln's birthday. That year, Washington's birthday happened to fall on a Saturday and many I.U. students felt cheated out of a holiday which would have allowed them a day off from classes. A group of male students decided that on Lincoln's birthday they would skip their classes and try to persuade other students to do so as well. The actions of the rogue students that Wednesday morning soon led to mayhem. A mob gathered outside Kirkwood Hall, indulged in a college-yell, before storming the building and physically removing some students who refused to leave. The mob next stormed the English end of Library Hall and made a second raid of Kirkwood Hall before President Swain and a rain storm drove most of them away. Hoffman and his colleagues made the decision to require all students who were absent from class to write a letter to the Committee of Student Affairs explaining the reason(s) for his or her absence on February 12. Among other events during Hoffman's service as Dean were: the first 'Arbutus' was issued in 1894; William Lowe Bryan was elected university president in June of 1902; Professor Bannister began the publication of the Indiana University Alumni Quarterly; the Student Building was dedicated in 1902; and from 1901 - 1906, Mary Bidwell Breed served as I.U.'s first Dean of Women. Another important event was the creation of the Graduate School in 1904 which relied heavily on the faculty of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. Hoffman was widely respected by his fellow faculty members and is given credit with having helped form Indiana University into the institution that it has become today. Upon his retirement Hoffman was awarded with an honorary LL.D and was named Dean Emeritus of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences as well as Professor Emeritus of Greek. Hoffman died on 6 October 1950 in Traverse City, Michigan, at the age of 95. 
Donald F. Carmony was born in 1910 in Shelby County, Indiana and spent his formative years on a farm. He attended Indiana Central College (now the University of Indianapolis), graduating in 1929 with his A.B. While working on his Ph.D. in history at Indiana University he taught history at Indiana Central College, receiving his doctorate in 1940. In the summer of 1939 Carmony taught at Butler University following which he was appointed and served as the first full time history faculty member at the Indiana University Fort Wayne Extension Center. From 1944 to 1950 Carmony served as the director of the South Bend Extension Center and was appointed Associate Dean of the Extension Division in 1950 where he served until February 1st, 1959. Following his departure from the Extension Center he became a full time member of the history faculty on the Bloomington campus. Carmony remained on the history faculty until his retirement in 1980, serving as chair of the department during the summer of 1962. Carmony's area of expertise was Indiana history, and from 1955 to 1975 he edited the Indiana Magazine of History. During his academic career Carmony was active on several university committees, including the Cornelius O'Brien lecture series, the Committee on Historic Preservation, the Indiana University Sesquicentennial Committee, and the Committee on the Career Status of Librarians. Carmony also served on several committees within the history department, most prominently the Executive Committee. Outside of the university, Carmony took an active role in local and state programs, including serving as chair of the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission (no records in collection) and chair for the Great Books program in Indiana in the late 1940s and early 1950s. He was also an active member of the American Association for State and Local History, Bloomington Bicentennial Commission, and New Harmony Commission, among many others. Among the five books published by Carmony are Indiana: from Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (1954), and Indiana 1816-1850: The Pioneer Era (1988), widely considered as one of the definitive studies of Hoosier pioneer life. In 1998 Carmony was named a Sagamore of the Wabash by Governor Frank O'Bannon, and in 2001 he became only the sixth individual to be named an honorary life member of the Society of Indiana Pioneers.
Carmony died on February 14, 2005 at the age of 95. 
Born in Milltown, Indiana in 1864, David Andrew Rothrock graduated from the Northern Indiana Normal School in 1887. From 1881 to 1891, he was a teacher and principal in Indiana and Illinois schools. Rothrock received his AB in 1892 and his AM in 1893 from Indiana University. In 1892, he joined Indiana University's faculty as an instructor in the Mathematics Department. Serving as an assistant professor from 1895 to 1900, Rothrock continued his mathematical studies at the University of Chicago (1894-1895 and the summer of 1896) and the University of Leipzig (Germany), where he received his Ph.D in 1898. As a professor in the Mathematics Department from 1895 to 1937, Rothrock was the author of textbooks for high school and college students, as well as a contributor to professional journals. In addition to his work in mathematics, Rothrock became the Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences in 1920. In 1937, he resigned as Dean and Professor and served as the Director of Admissions for the 1937-1938 academic year. Retiring in 1938, Rothrock was named Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, a title he held until his death in 1949. Except for the time he spent studying at the Universities of Chicago and Leipzig, and a summer he spent as professor of Mathematics at the West Michigan Normal School, David Andrew Rothrock served Indiana University continuously from graduation until retirement. Besides being a member of various mathematical societies, Rothrock served on the Bloomington City Council from 1918 to 1926, and as a member of the Indiana Legislature in 1919 and 1920. He also served on the State Conservation Committee from 1925 to 1933. David Andrew Rothrock was the author of Invariants of the Finite Continuous Groups of the Plane (1899); Essentials of Algebra for Secondary Schools (1904); Supplementary Examples in Algebra (1906); Essentials in High School Mathematics: A Synopsis (1907); Solid Geometry(1909); Plane and Spherical Trigonometry (1910); Mathematical Tables (1910); Logarithmic, Trigonometric and Other Tables (1914); and High School Algebra (1928). The David A. Rothrock Scholarships in Mathematics were established in 1956 through a gift to the Indiana University Foundation by Everett Antrim, a 1905 graduate who was a former student of Professor Rothrock. 
The School of Letters was originally created by John Crowe Ransom, F.O. Matthiessen, and Lionel Trilling as a part of the School of English at Kenyon College. When support from the Rockefeller Foundation ended, the program moved to Indiana University in the summer of 1951. Supported by a similar grant from IU, the School of Letters began as a summer program, but expanded into a full-year program in the fall of 1961. The School of Letters remained distinct from the English department because of its contribution to the study of literary theory and criticism. According to Stallknecht, The School of Letters emphasized practical criticism over the biographical and historical approaches to the study of literature common in the departments of English and Comparative Literature. The program grew to international acclaim and was able to attract guest lecturers from the eminent scholars of the world. The program was phased out after the 1972 session, following Stallknecht's resignation as Director. 
The study of political science at Indiana University has quite a history. When Andrew Wylie became IU president in 1829 he taught a senior class which included the subjects Constitutional Law, Moral Science, and Political Economy. After the Civil War more departments were introduced, including the Department of Mental, Moral and Political Philosophy. An excerpt from the 1877-1878 catalog description reads: In this department is taught Mental Philosophy embracing the usual topics. Moral Philosophy include(s) both the theory of morals and practical morals; the former embraces the moral sense, the grounds of right and wrong, the nature of virtue, the authority of conscience, the rules of moral conduct, and the sources from which they are derived; the latter includes the duties we owe to ourselves, to men, to society, to the State, and to God. Political Philosophy embraces Civil Polity, Constitution of the U.S., Political Economy, Social Science, International Law. In 1885 the department of History and Political Science was established. The following year it became two departments, a Department of History and a Department of Political and Social Science. Further specialization occurred in 1890 when a separate department of European History was created leaving the Department of American History and Politics, headed by James A. Woodburn. Amos Shartle Hershey joined the Department of American History and Politics in 1895 and was the force that led to Political Science becoming its own department. In 1906 Hershey wrote the Board of Trustees to recommend the establishment of a separate department for Political Science. In March 1914 the Board enacted Hershey's proposal. At that time there were only 35 departments of Political Science in American colleges and universities. The first curriculum was established in 1915 and remained relatively untouched until World War II. During that time the only major change in the department was a name change in 1933 from Political Science to Government. The name change reflected uncertainty in the profession as to the essential character of inquiry into politics, and was prompted in the first instance by public puzzlement over the attribute of science. The name was returned to Political Science effective fall semester 1969 due to a misperception on the part of the foreign public. When researching abroad, members of the department had been regarded as agents of the American government. Following World War II the growing complexity of scientific inquiry and its ever mounting impact on human relations had the effect of intensifying the need for more research. With the Wells administration in place the faculty was enlarged and with new faculty came new programs. The Political Science department expanded beyond its Western orientation. Hershey taught a course on Japan, but an even better example is the Army Specialized Training Program in which the University was engaged during WWII. This program included the language, history, and politics of countries around the world, friend and foe, with which the military became involved. Through this program, more specialized foreign programs were started at IU and the growing and diverse student body helped to keep these specialized programs operating. A political science component of the Russian and East European Program began in 1950. The African Studies program added a political science component in 1961. Not only did the expansion that took place after WWII affect the size of the department, it affected the scope also. The complexity of society was reflected in that political science overlapped with sociology, economics, and even anthropology. Walter H. C. Laves who worked hard to expand the department to include technical assistance chaired the department for 12 years beginning in 1954. Under his leadership institutes of public administration were founded in Indonesia and Thailand. The connection between science and politics was also recognized as an important juncture, not only to public policy, but also to political science. In 1965 the innovative Program in Science, Technology, and Public Policy was established, featuring a multi- disciplinary approach, encompassing research, teaching, and service. Another innovative course developed was the Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis. Established professionals were brought together to assess alternative policy strategies. The Center for International Policy Studies, founded in 1975, combined research with a training program at both the pre and postdoctoral levels. Its approach was interdisciplinary, including natural as well as social sciences, and its methodology was quantitative and mathematical. Unfortunately, John Gillespie, who created the center with Dina Zinnes, died in 1979 and in 1980 Zinnes accepted a position at the University of Illinois. Consequently, without of the support of its founders the center dissolved in 1980. 
James Albert Woodburn was born on November 30, 1856 in a two-story brick house on North College Street in Bloomington, Indiana, to James W. Woodburn and Martha Jane Hemphill Woodburn. At the time of James' birth, his father, James W. Woodburn, was serving as principal of the Preparatory department at Indiana University. James A. Woodburn was educated in the Bloomington Public school system before entering Indiana University in 1872. He earned his A.B. degree in 1876 and soon after began teaching at a public school in Richland Township, Rush County, Indiana, before moving on to become an assistant principal in the Grayville, Illinois, public schools. In 1879 he returned to Bloomington where he began teaching Latin and advanced Mathematics at the Indiana University Preparatory school. While employed as an instructor at the Preparatory school, Woodburn worked towards an A.M. degree in
History that he completed in 1885. Starting in 1886, Woodburn secured consecutive leaves of absence from his teaching responsibilities at I.U. to enroll at John Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland in pursuit of a Ph.D. degree in History. While working toward his Ph.D. degree he taught Rhetoric and Composition at John Hopkins University and, during his absence, was also named Associate Professor of American History at I.U. in 1888. After graduation, in 1890, he returned to Bloomington and joined the faculty at Indiana University as a professor of American History and Politics. While giving lectures at the University Extension division in Indianapolis he met Caroline Louise Gelston who had been teaching in Miss Sewall's Classical school. The two were married in Ann Arbor, Michigan, on November 20, 1893 and the couple soon afterward moved to Bloomington. A little over a year later, on November 30, 1894 James and Caroline's first son, James Gelston, was born followed by the couple's only daughter, Janet McMillan, who was born in 1900. The couple also had another son, Edward Albert, who was born on July 26, 1903. He died in infancy at the age of ten weeks. Woodburn's responsibilities at I.U. changed in 1914 when the department of History was split from the department of Political Science to form two separate, autonomous departments with Woodburn serving as the first chair of the new department. This appointment was a landmark achievement for Woodburn being that he was one of the first men in America to hold such a prestigious chair. Woodburn remained an instructor at I.U. until the 1920-21 academic year when he gave up teaching to become a research professor. He retired from the university in 1924. After his retirement he was named professor emeritus. As an acknowledgement of his contributions to the Indiana University community, was awarded an honorary L.L.D. degree in 1926. While teaching at I.U. Woodburn received some noteworthy accolades for his academic endeavors such as being awarded the John Marshall Prize from John Hopkins University for best volume in political science in 1903 and later, in 1909, being awarded an honorary L.L.D. degree from Colgate University. Woodburn is also credited with being a charter member of the Phi Beta Kappa Society at I.U. which is a highly prestigious undergraduate honors organization. One of his most memorable contributions Woodburn made to Indiana University was the publication of his "History of Indiana University" in 1940. Prompted by then President William Lowe Bryan, Woodburn spent years researching the history of the university. The publication of the history was of such great monumental importance to the academic community in Bloomington that an elaborate testimonial banquet was held on November 30, 1940 to honor Woodburn. This event was also planned to coincide with Woodburn's 84th birthday. During the celebration Woodburn formally presented a copy of the "History of Indiana University" to then president, Herman B Wells, who accepted it on behalf of the University. Aside from his duties at Indiana University Woodburn served in the position of visiting professor at the University of Wisconsin, University of Chicago, Leland Stanford University, University of Michigan, Cornell University, and Washington State College. His many scholarly memberships included the American Historical Association, American Political Science Association, Indiana Historical Society, Indianapolis Literary Club, Kiwanis Club, National Arts Club, as well as many others. On December 12, 1943, James A. Woodburn died of pneumonia in Madison, Wisconsin and was buried at the Rose Hill cemetery in Bloomington. 
The first courses in biology at Indiana University were offered in 1853-54. However, as early as 1828 John Harney was appointed to teach mathematics and "such of the natural sciences as were considered of sufficient importance to engage the attention of aspiring youth." Textbooks of the day covering "the natural sciences" dealt with such areas of biology as anatomy, some physiology, some biogeography, and much systematics. During the early years of Indiana University, biology existed as a subset of the Natural Sciences, often in the form of zoological, botanical, or geological research. For example, Richard Owen, Prof. of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry (1864-1879) concentrated chiefly on geological studies, but extensively employed zoology and botany as part of his teaching. By 1869-70, zoology and botany appear as separate courses under Natural Sciences. In 1879, David Starr Jordan assumed the post of Prof. of Natural Sciences and proceeded to expand and modernize the curriculum. In 1885, Jordan became president of Indiana University. Among his first official acts was the establishment of a Department of Zoology (chaired by Jordan himself) and a Department of Botany and Geology (chaired by John C. Branner). In 1891, Carl H. Eigenmann assumed control of the Department of Zoology. Among his many contributions to the department was the establishment of a Biological Station on Turkey Lake (now Wawasee) and the assembly of a distinguished faculty that included Will Scott, Fernandus Payne, and Alfred C. Kinsey. By this time, anatomy and physiology had drifted away following a separate course correlated with the medical program. Bacteriology was established as a separate department under Leland McClung and included such notable faculty as Salvador E. Luria (later Noble Laureate). By the 1960s it was becoming increasingly evident that the biological sciences of the day were extending far beyond the issues covered in the isolated departments of Zoology, Botany, and Bacteriology. In 1963, the Indiana University Board of Trustees created the Division of Biological Sciences, comprised of the departments of Anatomy and Physiology, Botany, Microbiology, and Zoology. Tracey Sonneborn served as chair of the executive committee of the Division. Under the divisional organization, the various departments sought to create a variety of courses and programs designed to integrate the field of biology. In 1977 it was decided to completely integrate the departments into a single Department of Biology in order to foster interdisciplinary research, pool resources and equipment, and create an atmosphere in which the different biological fields "worked together rather than against each other." Interesting sections within the department were created, including botany, cell and developmental biology, ecology, genetics, microbiology, molecular biology, and physiology and biochemistry. John Preer became the department's first chair. Breakdown of department name changes: 
Dept. of Anatomy and Physiology
Dept. of Bacteriology
Dept. of Botany
Dept. of Zoology
1966 Dept. of Bacteriology changes to Dept. of Microbiology
1972 Dept. of Botany changes to Dept. of Plant Sciences
1976 Dept. of Anatomy and Physiology transfers from the College of Arts and Sciences to the School of Medicine
1977 Depts. of Microbiology, Plant Sciences, and Zoology merge into a single Dept. of Biology
Elizabeth Grundy Dunn, the daughter of George and Eleanor Grundy, was born in Kentucky in 1778. She married Samuel Dunn, Jr. in 1812 and they moved their family to Indiana because Samuel did not want to raise his children in a slave state. They had eight children together and slowly moved their way up to Bloomington, Indiana, where they settled in 1823 and established a large farm that was on the land that makes much of the current Indiana University campus. George Grundy Dunn, Sr., the son of Samuel and Elizabeth Grundy Dunn, was born in Washington Co., Kentucky, on Dec. 20, 1812. His family moved to Monroe Co., Indiana, in 1823 where Dunn attended Indiana Seminary (now Indiana University) in Bloomington, Indiana. Due to a dispute with a professor, Dunn left the school in his third year. In 1833, he moved to Switzerland Co., Indiana, to teach school, and later moved to Bedford to study law. Dunn was admitted to the bar in 1835 and partnered with Col. R. W. Thompson to practice law in Bedford. In 1841, George Grundy Dunn, Sr. married Julia Fell, and the next year he became the prosecuting attorney in Lawrence County, Indiana. Dunn served in several political offices, including as a U.S. Congressman from 1847-1849 and 1855-1857 and as a State senator from 1850-1852. He was well-known for his passionate oratory skills, which served him well as a congressman. George Grundy Dunn, Sr. died in 1857, shortly after his second term in the U.S. Congress ended, and was buried in Green Hill Cemetery in Bedford, Indiana. Moses Fell Dunn was born Apr. 26, 1842 in Bedford, Indiana, the son of George Grundy Dunn, Sr. Moses graduated from Hanover College in Hanover, Indiana, in 1862, and moved on to study French and German at Harvard University. He was fluent in several languages and traveled the world extensively. He practiced law with his brother George Grundy Dunn, Jr. and served in the state legislature from 1867-1869. Between 1895 and 1905, Indiana University approached Moses Fell Dunn to purchase parts of the Dunn family farm to be used for the campus. About twenty acres were eventually secured, including what are now Dunn Meadow and the Dunn family cemetery. A dispute over this transaction, however, caused him to become disenfranchised with the university. Moses Dunn never married and had no children, so, upon his death in 1915, he left large amounts of land to Purdue University and to Bedford's Masonic Order. Bedford renamed their city hospital Dunn Hospital in honor of Moses Fell Dunn. Felix Clelland Dunn, a son of Samuel and Elizabeth Grundy Dunn, was born in Kentucky, April 14, 1818. He married Mary Slocum and they had two children, Elizabeth (Legg) and Samuel G., and lived in Bloomington, Indiana. He spent most of his life as farmer, but also spent some time in the mercantile business in Bloomington. Felix Dunn died in 1885. Samuel G. Dunn is the son of Felix C. Dunn. He married Mary E. Dunn, and had a daughter Mabel. William McKee Dunn was born in 1814 in Hanover, Indiana, to Williamson Dunn, a founder of Hanover College. He is the nephew of Samuel Dunn, Jr., and cousin to George Grundy Dunn. Dunn graduated from Indiana State College (now Indiana University) in 1832, and became a professor of mathematics at Hanover College. In 1835, he received an A.M. from Yale University, and later studied law and started a practice in Madison, Indiana. Dunn was elected a member of the Indiana State Legislature in 1848, and later served two terms in the U.S. Congress, 1859-1863. During the Civil War, William McKee Dunn served in many active roles, including volunteer aide-de-camp to Union General George B. McClellan in 1861. In 1864, he became a colonel and assistant judge advocate general for the U.S. Army and brevetted brigadier general in 1865. Dunn retired from the military in 1881 and died at his summer residence in Dunn Loring, Virginia, in 1887. 
This project was funded by the US Department of Justice and directed by Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin. The task of the project was to research early records to determine the locations and migrations of the indigenous inhabitants of the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley region during the period that Europeans first moved into the area. The information was used in cases before the Indian Claims Commission. The project started in June 1953 with a 3 year contract and was extended numerous times through 1967. It was originally headed by Charles F. Voegelin, but the principal researcher was Erminie Wheeler-Voegelin who later was named as the director. It was loosely associated, at least in the beginning, with the Department of Anthropology, but it seems to have been fairly independent during most of its existence. 
In 1923, President Bryan created the position of provost to relieve him of the increasing amount of administrative detail connected to Indiana University's Indianapolis campus. He appointed Samuel E. Smith to the post, who remained in this position until his death in 1928. During his time as provost, Smith oversaw the expanding medical and extension centers in Indianapolis, in addition to the construction of the 10th Street Memorial Stadium on the Bloomington campus. 
Edward Grant, Distinguished Professor Emeritus of History and History and Philosophy of Science at Indiana University, was born in 1926. He began his higher education at the City College in New York, graduating Cum Laude in 1951, and continued to the University of Wisconsin, where he received his Masters and Doctorate in the History of Science and Medieval History in 1957. During this time, Dr. Grant spent a year at the University of Utrecht as a Fulbright Scholar (1955-1956). Dr. Grant began his successful teaching career while a graduate student at the University of Wisconsin. He was an assistant to a well-known scholar in the field, Dr. Marshall Clagett, whom he would continue to respect and correspond with throughout his career. Before arriving in Bloomington, Indiana as an Assistant Professor of History, Dr. Grant spent two years teaching at the University of Maine (1957-1958) and Harvard University (1958-1959). Dr. Grant's teaching career at Indiana University spanned over thirty years, beginning in 1959. He was instrumental in starting the department later to be known as History and Philosophy of Science and became Distinguished Professor of both that department and History. Dr. Grant also served as Chairperson of History and Philosophy of Science between 1973-1979 and 1987-1990. A distinguished medievalist, Dr. Edward Grant wrote prolifically throughout his professorship at Indiana University. Among his numerous books are the multi-volume A Source Book in Medieval Science and Much Ado About Nothing: Theories of Space and Vacuum from the Middle Ages to the Scientific Revolution. Dr. Grant also published a variety of articles and reviews in such respected journals and publications as Isis, History of Science, Dictionary of Scientific Biography, and The New Catholic Encyclopedia. In addition to his abundant writings, Dr. Grant was also a prominent member of several organizations, such as the Medieval Academy of America, the Academie Internationale d'Histoire des Sciences, and the History of Science Society for which he served as Vice-President (1983-1984) and President (1985-1986). Dr. Grant was also a frequent lecturer for organizations such as the Phi Beta Kappa Associates Panel of Distinguished Speakers (1990-1998). Some of Dr. Grant's various achievements are recorded in listings such as Who's Who in America, Directory of American Scholars, Men of Achievement, and Dictionary of International Biography.
Dr. Grant died on June 21, 2020. 
The Department of History and Philosophy of Science was established at Indiana University in 1960, largely due to the persistence of Professors Edward Grant and Norwood Russell Hanson. Shortly after Grant came to Indiana University, Hanson approached him with the idea of establishing a program in the History and Philosophy of Science. After garnering the support of other faculty members, a proposal was put forth to the administration, who happily approved the plan. Concerns from the Philosophy Department led to a name change - the Department of History and Logic of Science. The Board of Trustees approved the creation of the new department February 27, 1960. With four faculty members and nine graduate students, the first year of the Department of History and Logic of Science began the fall of 1960. At the time, the department was primarily a Graduate School program with plans to create a fully-implemented undergraduate curriculum within a few years. The 1960-61 COAS Bulletin states that the intentions of the Department were "to explore, as an independent field of study, the conceptual development of scientific ideas, as well as their integral logical structure." Dr. Hanson served as the first Chair of the department. A growing department, by the 1963-64 school year, the department had changed its name back to the original Department of History and Philosophy of Science. In the spring of 1964, the department awarded its first degrees - 5 M.A.s, and by the late 1960s, the Ph.D.s the department granted reached record levels, with the peak coming in 1971, with ten Ph.D.s awarded. From the mid 1970s through the 1980s, class numbers dropped due in part to lack of growth in the field and limited job opportunities. During the 1990s, however, the department experienced a revitalization. The department experienced a substantial revision of its faculty; new hirees brought new perspectives and the department neared its record in the number of Ph.D.'s it granted. In 2000, the department celebrated its 40th anniversary. 
The national organization known as the American Association of University Women was founded in 1881 to promote the expansion of women's opportunities in education and employment. Established in Washington D.C. as the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, the organization sought to combat prejudices against women in academics and in the workplace by publishing studies debunking myths about the "damaging" effects of education on a woman's health and by exploring women's opportunities in traditional and non traditional careers. The organization also raised money for the funding of fellowships for women to pursue advanced degrees and to conduct research. Today, membership is open to anyone who holds a bachelor's degree from a regionally accredited institution. The A.A.U.W. has a membership of 150,000 individuals with approximately 1,500 branches nationwide. The organization conducts business on many fronts including education, international relations and politics. The A.A.U.W. consistently endorses legislation that promotes women's opportunities in the workplace and academic settings such as Title IX, the Higher Education Amendments of 1986 and the Civil Rights Restoration Act. In 1981 the A.A.U.W. established the Legal Advocacy Fund for the financial assistance of women seeking to combat sexual harassment and sex discrimination in the workplace. The A.A.U.W. also established the Education Foundation to fund research and fellowships for university women and the Eleanor Roosevelt Fund, expanding their focus to include K-12 Education. By 1987 the organization extended its membership to include men holding college degrees. Today, the organization continues to support women's education and employment efforts through financial assistance, research, and the promotion of legislation to combat all forms of discrimination. The installation of a branch of the American Association of University Women was delayed in Bloomington, as Indiana institutions went unrecognized by the National Organization until 1912. A woman's eligibility was governed by her school's acceptability under the national organizations guidelines which called on institutions to provide students with a variety of course offerings and diverse library holdings, while at the same time maintaining membership in national organizations, and equal pay rates between the male and female faculty. When Indiana University finally gained acceptance under the A.C.A.'s, as it was then still known, guidelines activity to establish a Bloomington Branch commenced. The Bloomington Branch of the A.A.U.W. began 12 February 1913 under the name of the Association of Collegiate Alumnae, and the branch changed its name accordingly when the national organization of the A.C.A. adopted the title of the American Association of University Women in 1921. Sixty women signed on as charter members of the Bloomington Branch, mostly young women who had recently received their college degrees. They originally met every second Wednesday of every month in the Student Building. In the early years of the group, they were unable to raise money for substantial fellowships, but did sponsor an annual essay contest through the English Department for university women, and also sponsored a discussion contest that awarded nominal prizes to cover the cost of books. By the 1940s and 1950s the branch had a more solid foundation and was able to raise more funds, sponsor international fellowship recipients and conduct community based fundraising efforts. The Bloomington Branch remained active throughout the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, promoting community involvement, educational diversification, and women's occupational issues. The Bloomington Branch of the A.A.U.W. always stayed politically involved, pushing forward important legislation for the betterment of women's experiences in education and the community. Throughout the years the Bloomington Branch was active in the Indiana Division, the Great Lakes Region, and the A.A.U.W. national organizations, with four of its branch members going on to become Divisional Presidents. Also noteworthy was one of the Bloomington Branch's charter members, Nellie Showers Teter, who became Indiana University's first woman Trustee. The Bloomington Branch of the A.A.U.W. was disbanded in July 1996. 
The Indiana University Bloomington Professional Staff Council became an official university organization when it's Constitution and Bylaws were approved by university administration on October 16, 1985. This representative council was created to empower the many professional staff members at the university by giving them a voice in university policies and actions that affected the working conditions and services/benefits of their employment. Before the approval of the Council's governing laws, it was a petition circulated by a representation committee appointed by the university administration, endorsed by the university's professional employees, and later presented to the IU Board of Trustees by an ad hoc group of four professional employees that laid the groundwork for the creation of the Council. Prior to the creation of the Council, many of the university's professional staff members were members or active participants in a non-officially-sanctioned group called the Indiana University Professional Staff Association. The IUPSA was formed in 1983 as a forum for the concerns and opinions of the university professional staff members on the Bloomington campus. This association was later disbanded in 1988 in favor of the Council. The IUB Professional Staff Council held their first meeting on May 14, 1986 as a group of 24 professional staff members elected from 10 electoral units (now 21 professional staff members elected from 7 units) representing a balanced population of the university's professional community. In its early years the Council worked to establish productive relations with university administration. The first issues of concern for this new university organization were the status of retirement plans, health care concerns, and issues concerning the job security of many professional staff members. The Council's first president, Don Brinneman, and other executive officers were successful in gaining the attention of many members of the university administration including that of its president, John Ryan. Since these first connections were made, many subsequent members of the university administration have actively interacted with the Council even going so far as attending their meetings often as speakers. The Indiana University Professional Staff Constitution begins with an official description of what the university considers a professional staff member; an individual appointed at 50% or full-time employment status as coded by the university budget. Professional Staff Members are represented by 21 professional staff members comprising the Professional Staff Council. The elected members of the Council are responsible for providing their fellow staff members with a means of making informed decisions and engaging in active participation regarding any university action or policy that would affect the university's professional community. The Council is responsible for dictating the concerns of the university's professional staff through questionnaires, surveys, meetings, and other forms of interaction and presenting them as formal proposals to the university Vice-President for Administration. The Council is required to meet once a month in which such meetings are open to non-members. In terms of responsibility, the Council is required to report its decisions and other proceedings to the members of the professional staff and these reports are also required to state how each Council member or his/her proxy voted on important issues. In terms of the Council's administration, the Council's Executive committee is required to elect a President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, and Parliamentarian. Each Council member is required, as a minimum, to serve a three-year term with the possibility of serving another consecutive term after which they are ineligible to serve for the next two elections. The Bylaws state that 1/3 of the Council's members are required to run for re-election each year. After amendments to the Professional Staff Council Constitution have been discussed by the Council, such amendments must be approved by a 2/3 majority vote of the Council before being distributed by a mail ballot to the Professional Staff Association. A minimum of a 33% vote by the Professional Staff Association in favor of adopting the amendment is necessary before the newly ratified amendment is submitted to the IU Board of Trustees. As mentioned above, the Council's first president, Don Brinneman, was a very influential executive member of the IUBPSC as was Doris-Jean Burton, the Council's first Vice President, who addressed the Faculty Affairs committee of the IU Board of Trustees concerning the establishment of the IUBPSC. The duties of both offices are extensive and require active cooperation with the many divisions and members of the Council. The President is responsible for chairing Council meetings, referring matters to the separate committees, preparing written annual reports, representing the Council at Bloomington Faculty Council meetings, and selecting the chairs of Standing committees and Ad Hoc task forces amongst other responsibilities. The Vice President is responsible for being the contact person for other university employee organizations or campus group; chairing a committee responsible for the Council's presentations to the IU Board of Trustees; as well as assuming the responsibilities of the President in his/her absence. Each Council member is required to serve on at least one Standing committee each year. Attendance at each of the committee's monthly meetings is required. Each Standing committee is chaired by an individual appointed by the Council's president. The chairs of these committees are responsible for delegating assignments to the separate committee members, scheduling committee meetings, setting the agenda for committee meetings, and preparing written reports to the university's professional staff amongst other responsibilities. The Executive committee of the IUBPSC has the responsibility of establishing ad hoc committees and task forces to research staff related issues and report their findings to the Council. Like the standing committees, the ad hoc committees and task forces are chaired by individuals appointed by the Council's president who creates written reports for the Council, but attendance is not as strictly regulated since such groups meet only when necessary, and may only be active for a short duration. 
The formal development of an African Studies Program at Indiana University began in 1961 with the receipt of a five-year developmental grant from the Ford Foundation under the directorship of J. Gus Liebenow of the Department of Political Science. The program was strengthened in 1965 when it was designated as an African Language and Area Center under the National Defense Education Act. In the first ten years of its existence, faculty participants increased from 3 to 23, graduates specializing in African studies from 3 to 95, courses offered during the regular academic year from 4 to 79, graduate enrollments from 26 to 367, and undergraduate enrollments from 17 to 244. A cornerstone of the program was the weekly "continuing seminar," to which an ever-expanding range of national and international experts in African history and culture was invited for lecture and discussion. In 1970, when Liebenow as appointed Dean for International Programs and Associate Dean for Research and Advanced Studies, he agreed to continue the directorship of the African Studies Program if he could have the assistance of a deputy director. Patrick O'Meara was appointed to this position, then became director in spring 1972 when Liebenow was appointed Vice President and Dean for Academic Affairs. O'Meara continued in this position until his own appointment as Dean for International Programs in June 1993. The records in this collection are from the Liebenow and O'Meara directorships. Five areas of emphasis characterized the early years of the program: West African regional studies, African humanities with emphasis on the arts and music, problems of development, historical study emphasizing West Africa, and African languages and linguistics. Work in African languages included the preparation of teaching manuals for 14 African languages under contract with the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and with the Peace Corps; coursework was offered in other languages as well. A sixth area of emphasis evolved with the extensive work of Alan Taylor in the development of the library collection on Africa and the training of African bibliographers within the Graduate Library School. The African Studies Program was from the beginning intended to become a permanent program, drawing on faculty with appointments in established departments, encouraging recruitment of new faculty with African interests for departmental openings, and pursuing interdisciplinary efforts with other campus entities such as the Folklore Institute (joint publication of Cross-Rhythms), the Archive of Traditional Music, the International Development Research Center, and the Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis. Its faculty was active nationally and internationally in the development of scholarship on Africa through the support of the African Studies Association, founded in 1956, as well as through individual affiliations and extensive publications. In response to the increasing demands by African-Americans for attention to their African heritage and contributions to American society and the world in 1968, faculty from the African Studies Program were heavily involved in developing and carrying out the extensive Focus: Black America program of speakers, performers, and discussions during the 1968-69 academic year. As Liebenow described the program, it was intended "to educate the university community with respect to the many contributions being made by Black citizens to all phases of American society" and to investigate "the causes and implications of inter-racial conflict in the United States." His hope was that "Focus: Black America will not only contribute to the launching of the recently approved Program of Afro-American Studies, but will lead also to the hiring of new Black faculty at Indiana and to making the university a more attractive institution for current and prospective Black students" (Dec. 1968 Christmas letter). Other notable projects of the program's early years were the annual Hans Wolff Lectures, bringing noted international Africanists to campus for a schedule of lectures and seminars; publications in African humanities; collection of extensive audio and video resources on Africa; the "Living Africa" television production; efforts in support of the Southern African Research Archives Project (SARAP) under the leadership of Gwendolen Margaret Carter, Director of the African Studies Program at Northwestern University and from 1974-1984 a member of the I.U. faculty; and development of the MacArthur Foundation grant that launched the Center for Global Change and World Peace. 
Johnnie Wilson Rutland was born in Wildwood, Florida, 19 March 1888. She received a bachelor's degree from Florida State College for Women (later Florida State University) in 1908 and a master's degree in English literature from Columbia in 1915. Between these two periods, she taught the fifth and sixth grades and high school English in Tampa, Florida. While at Columbia, she met Henry Lester Smith (1876-1963), a native of Indiana and graduate of Indiana University who was working on his Ph.D. there, largely through summer coursework. At that time, he had already been a faculty member at Indiana University and served as Superintendent of Schools in Bloomington for six years. He also was Dean-elect of I. U.'s School of Education, on leave from the university while at Columbia. The two were married in New York City on 3 Feb 1915. Henry Lester Smith served as Assistant Superintendent of Schools in Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1915-1916, receiving his Ph.D. in 1916. In that same year he began a tenure as Dean of Indiana University's School of Education that would last 30 years. Johnnie Rutland Smith continued her own education at Indiana University, earning an M.S. in education in 1931 and a Ph.D. in psychology with a minor in English in 1934. She taught children's literature at Indiana University in 1925-1926 and comparative education (through the Extension Division) in 1940, and served as a lecturer in the Extension Division beginning in 1932. She spoke German, Spanish, and French, and served as a translator of the World Conference of the Teaching Profession in New York in 1946. She co-authored An Introduction to Research in Education (1959) with her husband, as well as a number of articles. In addition to these professional and educational endeavors, she was very involved in civic organizations, especially those that catered to women, promoted education, or did both. A tribute to her after her death states that "she believed that club membership was a channel of service for women in the community and a stimulus for personal development" (Nell Olsson, The Herald-Telephone 22 July 1977). She founded the Monroe County Department Club, the Bloomington chapter of the National Society of Arts and Letters, and the Bloomington branch of the National League of American Pen Women. She served as president of the Bloomington Council of Women (1926-1927); the Bloomington Woman's Club, a literary club (1932-1934); the Nineteenth Century Club, a literary and philanthropic organization (1933-1935); the Faculty Women's Club (1934-1935); the Monroe County Federated Clubs (1935-at least 1941); and the Junior-Senior High School Parent Teacher Association (1936-1938). In addition she also served in many other roles in these and other organizations, such as the Bloomington Hospital Board (1927-1929) and the Bloomington Council of Girl Scouts (1930-1936), and was a member of the Hoosier Salon Patron's Association for sixteen years. Her activity in the American Association of University Women was particularly noteworthy. When she joined the Bloomington Branch of the organization in 1915, it was only two years old, and still known as the Association of Collegiate Alumnae (the name was changed to the American Association of University Women in 1921--see finding aid for Collection C209). Beginning in 1922, she served as chairman of various committees at the local and state levels, and sat on committees at the sectional and national levels of the organization as well. She was president of the Indiana Federation of Branches from 1928 to 1929 and of the Bloomington Branch from 1938 to 1940, and was selected the official representative of Indiana University and the Bloomington branch of the A. A. U. W. to the national convention in March 1937. Her association with the Indiana Federation of Clubs also seems to have been quite significant, as her invitation to participate in the White House Conference on Education documented in this collection was addressed to her in her role in this organization (see scope and content note). Her earliest association with this group seems to have been in 1935, when she became chairman of the American Home Department, and in 1957, she co-directed a three-day Leadership Training Institute on the Indiana University campus, which was co-sponsored by the Indiana Federation of Clubs. She served as president of the organization between 1966 and 1968, and appears to have remained active in the organization afterward as well. Despite the fact that Johnnie Rutland Smith was known as Mrs. Henry Lester Smith for most of her life, and her longest association with Indiana University was as the wife of the Dean of the School of Education, she was a highly educated woman in her own right who was engaged in the cause of education in many different roles over the course of her long and active life. Olsson calls her "one of the most beloved and distinguished women in the Hoosier state" (op. cit.). She was mentioned in Principal Women of America, Vol. 1 in 1932 and was given Distinguished Alumni awards by both Indiana University (in 1969) and Florida State University. Johnnie Rutland and Henry Lester Smith had three children, Martha Elisabeth (born 1917), Ruth Charlotte (born 1919), and Henry Rutland (born 1922). Henry Lester Smith died in 1963 at the age of 87 and Johnnie Rutland Smith died on 17 July 1977 at the age of 88. 
Biographical
Danilo Orescanin served Indiana University in a number of different capacities during his career, most notably as Chancellor of the Northwest campus and subsequently as Vice President for University Relations. In both positions, he spoke frequently to university and community groups, and worked to strengthen I.U.'s relationship with the community at large. Orescanin was born 7 April 1932 in Mingo Junction, Ohio, to George and Nellie (Kukich) Orescanin; his father had come to the United States from Serbia at the age of nineteen. Orescanin earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from West Virginia University in 1953 and an M.B.A. from Indiana University in 1954. He became an industrial engineer at Colgate-Palmolive in Jeffersonville, Indiana; was drafted into the army, in which he served in 1955 and 1956; and returned to I.U. to pursue a doctorate in business in 1957. By the time he received his doctorate in 1960, he had already had a taste of administrative work, having served as administrative assistant to the Dean of the School of Business. Orescanin became an Assistant Professor of Business at the University of South Florida in Tampa in 1960, where he also served as Assistant Coordinator of Evening and Summer Sessions. In 1963 he returned to Indiana University as Assistant Dean of the Division of University Extension. Over the next nine years, he performed a variety of administrative functions for the University and held appointments first as an assistant and then as an associate professor of business. He was acting director of the Southeast campus from April to August of 1965, following the sudden death of Dr. Byron K. Laird. In the fall of 1965, Orescanin went to Dacca, Pakistan to establish a new graduate program at the Institute of Business Administration, Dacca University, serving as Resident Advisor until 1967. He returned to I.U. and served first as Assistant Dean and later Associate Dean of Research of Advanced Studies, meanwhile serving as Acting Director of Data Systems and Services. In 1969, he was appointed Assistant to President Joseph L. Sutton and Associate Dean for Administration, and continued as Assistant to President John W. Ryan until he was invited to follow David R. Derge to Southern Illinois University following the latter's appointment as president there early in 1972. Orescanin served as Derge's executive assistant at S.I.U. from February to July of 1972, when he became Vice President for Administration and Campus Treasurer. Between July 1973 and March 1974, he also held the position of Executive Vice President. However, in late February 1974, Orescanin called Derge's attention to procedural irregularities in the use of some $5,000 from the Southern Illinois University Foundation to buy alcohol for presidential functions. As the accounts were under his control, Orescanin resigned from his administrative duties and requested reassignment to a full-time teaching and research position in the business school, which Derge granted. Orescanin was charged with tampering with public records by a grand jury of Jackson County, Illinois, but was acquitted. Orescanin served as Chancellor of Indiana University Northwest from the fall semester of 1975 until June of 1983, during which time he worked to improve the financial and physical state of the campus and to improve the image of the campus in the surrounding communities. He was involved in a large number of community organizations, and was awarded a National Award for outstanding contributions and service by the Association of Teacher Educators in 1979, the first time the award was ever given to a non-education faculty member. In June 1983, Orescanin was appointed Vice President for University Relations, a position that had been vacant for nearly three years. In this capacity, he oversaw the News Bureau, and the offices of University Publications, Community Relations, and Special Events, as well as the offices of University Relations at all campuses. He expanded the staff, which had been reduced in size, and implemented programs intended to create a strong statewide image for I. U. He showed a special interest in communities that had not previously had a strong I. U. presence such as "the Batesvilles, the Lawrenceburgs, the Evansvilles, and the Terre Hautes," as one article put it (Heck, The Columbian, Nov. 1983). He also launched a "Speakers Team" project to invite faculty members with the needed expertise speak to community groups around the state that might have questions about a particular field. His public relations style tended to emphasize personal connections: he compiled a list of "Friends of Indiana" in a wide range of counties and occupations for University Relations use, and sponsored golf events to build ties between members of the administration and influential people outside I. U., such as the news media. He served in the position of Vice President until January 1, 1988, when he returned to teaching management and business policy classes in the business school. In 1992, he was given the Otteson Undergraduate Teaching Excellence Award. He retired in December 1992, and died 22 May 1999 at the age of 67 in Tampa, Florida. Orescanin and his wife, Kathleen, had a son, Danilo II, and a daughter, Lori, both of whom earned degrees from I.U. 
The Board of Student Publications was established by the Indiana University Board of Trustees on September 5, 1946, superceding the Arbutus Board of Control. According to R.L. Shoemaker, the Dean of Students in 1945, increased enrollment triggered by the G.I. Bill of Rights would cause a demand for more student publications. This board would supervise all student publications, making them more manageable by the University and more accessible to the students. The Board was comprised of faculty from the School of Business, School of Journalism and Department of English. There were also members from the News Bureau, the Office of the Treasurer, the Student Activities Office, editors of the Indiana Daily Student, the Arbutus, two students elected by the Student Council, and the Dean of Students, ex-officio. The function of the board was to formulate policies on matters such as budgetary issues, the hiring of student staff, and general business procedures. Before its circulation, any publication first had to be approved by the Board. The Board would examine the content of the publication and then approve or disapprove the publication. While the School of Journalism was in charge of the Indiana Daily Student, the paper was nevertheless required to run their business procedures through the Board. In March of 1955, members of the Arbutus began discussing the idea of acting as a business independent of the Board. However, it was decided that the Board had the right to delegate any decisions made by the Arbutus staff because of the original goals the Board of Trustees set as well as the university procedures. In June of 1969, the Board of Trustees agreed that the Board of Student Publications would meet twice a year to appoint the editor of the Indiana Daily Student. The authority to make decisions on all other business operations was returned to the organizations. 
The Corda Fratres Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs was founded at the University of Wisconsin in 1904, out of an International Club that had formed in 1903. The Corda Fratres Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs began to expand to other Universities and started to hold national conventions of the Cosmopolitan Club chapters in 1907. The first convention was held at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. A Cosmopolitan Club member from the University of Wisconsin, Louis Luchner, wrote to President Bryan in October and November of 1907, inviting Indiana University to form an International or Cosmopolitan Club in order to attend the first convention. This attempt was unsuccessful; however, an Indiana University chapter of the Cosmopolitan Club was founded nine years later, on November 19, 1916, by 12 international students. The original constitutional committee consisted of: T.V. Petranoff (Bulgaria), Heinman Blatt (Russia), Y. Kodera (Japan), and Club President, J.T. Hsi (China). The Indiana University Cosmopolitan Club adopted a constitution on December 9, 1916 and received a charter from the Corda Fratres Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs on January 1, 1918. On December 26-29, 1923, Indiana University hosted the 17th annual National Convention with 77 delegates of 15 different nationalities registered in attendance. This same year, the Indiana University chapter was the executive chapter for all Cosmopolitan Clubs in the United States. In conjunction with this honor, I.U. history professor, Dr. James A. Woodburn, was elected national president of the Corda Fratres Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs. Additional Cosmopolitan Club faculty advisors of note at Indiana University include Leo R. Dowling in the 1940's and Walter E. Burnham in the 1950's and 1960's. As illustrated by the club motto, "Above all nations is humanity," the Cosmopolitan Club was founded to foster understanding and fraternity between foreign and American students, in order to promote international cooperation and world peace. Throughout its existence at Indiana University, the Cosmopolitan Club strove to maintain a 50/50 balance of U.S. and international members. By 1965, the club membership roster for the Indiana University chapter documented a membership of 515 individuals, representing 54 different countries. On March 25, 1922, the Indiana Daily Student reported on the first 'International Revue' (held March 24, 1922), marking the beginning of the Cosmopolitan Club's long tradition of presenting international dance, music and culture to the Indiana University community. The international performances and socials led to the development of an annual International Dinner, coinciding with a week of exhibitions and activities celebrating the United Nations. The first of these dinners was held in 1953 and they continued for 16 years. The International Dinner proved to be one of the most popular and widely attended activities of the club. Throughout the 1950's and early 1960's, interest in the Cosmopolitan Club remained high, as illustrated by events programming, newsletters, and membership rosters. By 1969, however, events and publications had waned and only 6 members were pictured in the Arbutus yearbook. 1969 was the last year the club was pictured in the Arbutus, but the collection contains an invitation to the 1970 International Dinner, indicating that the club remained active after ceasing to appear in the Arbutus. This document, dated February 12, 1970, is the last transaction of Cosmopolitan Club activity in the collection. 
John Robert Cravens was born in Madison, Indiana on November 22, 1819, to Robert Cravens and Sarah Grover Paul Cravens. He graduated from Indiana University with an A.B. in 1840 and an A.M. degree at an unknown date. After graduation, Cravens read law in Madison in the office of Joseph G. Marshall. Cravens was involved in milling with W.W. Page Sr. for several years until their investments burned to the ground. He was then elected president of the Madison and Indianapolis Railway Company and the Shelbyville and Columbus railway. Cravens remained in the office until the companies were reorganized, and he voluntarily retired. He then served for a short time as an editor and proprietor of the "Madison Banner", a Whig newspaper. Cravens was active in Indiana politics. Cravens served in the Indiana State Senate from 1854 to 1862 and 1866 to 1870. He was the Presiding Officer, Senate President Pro Tempore from 1860 to 1862 in the Indiana Senate. Cravens served as Acting Lieutenant Governor of Indiana from 1861 to 1863. He served in other roles including as a judge in the Jefferson Circuit Court and as a school trustee in Madison. Cravens was also involved with the Madison Opera House Company, the Madison Hotel, and the Madison Foundry. Cravens married Drusilla Lanier on February 1, 1844. They had 12 children with 11 living to adulthood. Their children were John, Robert, James, Alexander, William, Elizabeth, Joseph, Mary, Drusilla, Margaret (died in infancy), and Franklin. Cravens died on March 26, 1899 at his home, Fairmount, in Madison, Indiana. 
Myron Eugene Greene was born on January 20, 1915, in Buffalo, New York. Following his birth, his parents, Edward Greene and Florence Volmar, moved to Indianapolis, Indiana, where Myron would grow up, attend college, and establish a dental practice. Following high school, Myron attended school at Indiana University, Bloomington, from 1933-1934. In 1935 he enrolled in IU's dental program located at Indianapolis from which he graduated in 1940. Prior to earning his dentistry license, on January 26, 1940, Myron married Lovilla Horne whom he met while at IU (though she would graduate from Butler University). Unfortunately for the newlyweds, Myron enlisted in the U.S. Army later that year and quickly found himself traveling between training camps in the United States and military camps in Ireland, Africa, Italy, and France. Myron served in the U.S. Army from 1940-1945 as part of the 209th CA (AA) regiment and later the 72nd AAA Gun Battalion, obtaining the rank of captain by the war's end. Following the war, Myron established a successful dental practice in Indianapolis which he sold in 1982 to two fellow IU graduates. He died on May 25, 2010 at the age of 95. 
Gerald L. Bepko was born in Chicago, Illinois, on 21 April 1940 to Geraldine F. and Lewis Bepko. Bepko was a bright student and was entered into a program called "Double Promotion" which enabled him to skip a grade during his grade school career. He graduated in 1957 from Carl Scherz High School, a co-educational institution. Bepko's father passed away in 1958, and his mother remarried in 1961. After having spent his formative years on the North side of Chicago where he excelled as a student, he decided to enroll at Northern Illinois University where he graduated with a B.S. in 1962. He was the first member of his family to graduate from college. Eligible for the draft and unsure of what he wanted to do, he was convinced by a family friend and member of the Board of Kent College of Law in Chicago to apply for entrance into the school. He did and was accepted into the law program where he earned a J.D. in 1965. Still eligible for the draft after graduation but protected by a deferment, Bepko felt the need to serve his country in some capacity. He applied to the United States Navy Judge Advocate General Corps (JAG), the United States Army Officer Candidate School, and the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI). The FBI was particularly alluring to him due to the new found popularity of Ian Fleming's James Bond series. He heard first from the F.B.I. and became an agent in 1965. During his time as an agent Bepko was involved in a very serious accident that almost cost him his life. Just married to Jean Cougnenc in February 1968, Bepko was assigned to a surveillance mission in New York City. In September of that same year the truck he was in was struck by another car, and he was thrown from the vehicle. The truck then tipped over landing on top of Bepko almost crushing him to death. Shortly after this incident, Bepko resigned from the F.B.I in 1969 and turned to teaching, which would become his life-long career. Almost five years after his graduation from Kent College of Law, Bepko returned to Chicago to teach. He served at the school from 1969-1971. Having decided to go back to school to earn his L.L.M., Bepko applied for and was appointed the Ford Urban Law Fellow at Yale University in 1971. When he resigned his position at Kent College he had been appointed as the Director of the Institute for Criminal Justice. He received his L.L.M degree from Yale in 1972. Bepko joined the Indiana University faculty at the School of Law-Indianapolis in 1972, becoming a full professor in 1975, associate dean for academic affairs in 1979, and dean of the law school in 1981. He has been a visiting professor at the University of Illinois, Ohio State University and Indiana University Bloomington At the time of his appointment to Interim President of Indiana University, Bepko was serving as Chancellor of Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis (IUPUI), a position which he had held since 1986. He served as interim president from January-July 2003, when the university officially appointed Adam Herbert as president in August 2003. Bepko is married to Jean B. Cougnenc of New York, and they have two children, Gerald L. Jr. and Arminda. 
Roger Gerhard Newton was born in Landsberg on the Warthe, Germany, on November 30, 1924. His father, Arthur Newton, was a dentist and his mother was Margaret (Blume) Newton. He attended two engineering schools in Germany before attending the University of Berlin in 1946. He married Ruth Gordon on June 18, 1953, while working as a member of the Institute for Advanced Study, in Princeton, New Jersey. The couple had three children: Julie, Rachel, and Paul. In 1955, he came to Indiana University as an Assistant Professor, was promoted to Associate Professor in 1958, and reached the status of full Professor in 1960. While teaching at IU he also held visiting appointments at several universities and laboratories including Ohio State, University of Rome, International School of Physics, University of Montpellier in France, and the University of Geneva. He was also named director of IU's Institute of Advanced Study. Institutes of its kind are designed to foster pure cutting-edge research by scientists and scholars in a variety of fields without the complications of teaching or funding, or the agendas of sponsorship. The Institute was the first of its kind in the U.S. to be associated with an academic institution. Newton's primary research interests were field theory, scattering theories, nuclear and high energy physics, elementary particles, quantum mechanics, and mathematical physics. In addition to authoring many articles and books including From Clockwork to Crapshoot: A History of Physics, Thinking about Physics, and What Makes Nature Tick?, Dr. Newton also served as the editor of the Journal of Mathematical Physics (1992-2005), and was associate editor of the American Journal of Physics and Inverse Problems. Newton died on April 14, 2018 at the age of 93. 
Indiana University's Graduate School was founded, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Advanced Degrees, on February 1, 1904. The committee administered the School until 1908, when Carl H. Eigenmann was appointed as the first dean. For many years, a university Research Committee handled the many research funding requests until the 1977-1978 school year when the Office of Research and Graduate Development (R&GD) was formed to govern higher level research at IU. The first dean of this office was Homer A. Neal, who served in this role until the 1980-1981 academic year, at which time George Springer became acting dean. Morton Lowengrub took over the position in 1982 and stayed through 1988. With Lowengrub's departure, Roger Farr became acting dean until 1989. In 1989, the Office of Research and Graduate Development merged with the University Graduate School to become the Research and the University Graduate School (RUGS). To lead this program, George Walker was appointed Dean of the Graduate School and Associate Vice President for Research. The merger combined the financial resources of the two offices while unloading some of the recordkeeping and admission duties onto the individual schools within the university. As a result, RUGS administrators were better able to work on cultivating financial resources and to study graduate student concerns. Dr. Walker retired as Vice President of Research in 2003 (but continued as Dean of the Graduate School while the university conducted a search for his successor), ending a tenure during which several new prominent centers and initiatives had been established at IU, such as the Center on Congress, the Center for Mathematical Education, and the Advanced Research and Technology Institute. After Walker's retirement, RUGS split into two offices, the Office of the Vice President for Research and the University Graduate School. Vice President for Information Technology Michael A. McRobbie (later named the 18th president of the university), was asked to oversee this office and was given the additional title of Vice President for Research. Finally, in 2006, the office changed its name once more and became the Office of the Vice Provost for Research, led by P. Sarita Soni. 
In 1938, Indiana University began to engage in radio activities. A room was set aside for use as a studio and control room and a radio director and program director were hired. Courses such as "Radio Broadcasting" and "Radio Writing" were offered through the Department of Speech and "Radio News" in the Department of Journalism. In addition, two graduate courses were initiated: "Radio in Education" in the School in Education and "Radio Seminar" in the Department of Speech. At the Board of Trustees September 20, 1945 meeting, they approved the establishment of a Department of Radio as an "unattached department" under the Dean of Faculties. Beginning the fall of 1950, IU offered a B.S. in Radio and listed the courses under the College of Arts and Sciences, but it wasn't until 1953 that Radio officially began a part COAS, when the Trustees approved the establishment of the Department of Radio and Television. In 1974, the Trustees approved a name change to the Department of Telecommunications in order to better reflect the expanded scope of their academic program. This change went into effect on July 1. Harry Skornia served as Director of Radio Programs (and chair of the department once it was established) from 1942-1953. Following him was Elmer Sulzer, who chaired the department for the decade from 1954-1964. Sulzer was succeeded by Donley Feddersen, who served as department chair from 1966-1970. Today the Department of Telecommunications is home to over forty faculty members. It offers courses in marketing strategies, multimedia design, radio and television production, processes and effects, and industry and management. 
The eighth son of Ebenezer and Mary Osborn Ballantine, Elisha Ballantine was born October 11, 1809, in Shodark Landing, New York. After the death of his parents in 1823, Ballantine left New York for Ohio University, from which he graduated in 1828. Desiring to further his education, he went on to attend the Union Theological Seminary at Prince Edward County, Virginia. While a student, he also served as an instructor until moving into a full time teaching position as Professor of Hebrew and Greek, from 1831-1837. In 1838, he returned to Ohio University to teach Greek, but left after two years to answer a call to the ministry back in Prince Edward County. He left this post in 1848 to serve as minister at the First Presbyterian Church in Washington, D.C. where he remained until coming to Indiana University in 1854, where, with the exception of a brief position with the American Board of Foreign Missions (1863-1866), he spent the rest of his professional career. A respected member of the Indiana faculty, Prof. Ballantine held several positions throughout his tenure at IU. Teaching positions included professor of mathematics (1854-1856), professor of languages (1856-1863), and professor of Greek (1867-1886). Towards the end of his career, he also served as acting president (1884) and then Vice-President from 1884 until his death in 1886. Today Elisha Ballantine is memorialized on the IU Bloomington campus through Elisha Ballantine Hall, one of the largest academic buildings on campus, erected in 1959. 
Elvis J. Stahr, Jr., was born in Hickman, Kentucky on March 9, 1916 to Elvis Jacob and Mary Anne (McDaniel) Stahr. After graduating high school as valedictorian in 1932 at the age of sixteen, he attended the University of Kentucky where he was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity, the ROTC program, and the varsity tennis and debate teams. He graduated in 1936 with a degree in English Literature and the highest grades on record at the University of Kentucky. He continued his education at the University of Oxford in England as a Rhodes Scholar, where he received a B.A. in jurisprudence and a B.A. in civil law in 1938 and 1939, respectively. Later, he received his M.A. from Oxford in 1943. After his graduation from Oxford, Stahr practiced law as an associate in the New York firm Mudge, Stern, Baldwin, and Tucker from July 1939 to February 1941. However, his law practice was interrupted by World War II. Stahr joined the war effort in October 1941 as a second lieutenant and served for twenty-six months overseas, mainly in China, but also in India and North Africa. During his military tour, he received the Special Breast Order of Yun Hui, twice awarded by the Nationalist Republic of China, and the Bronze Star medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, among other honors. He ended his stint in the Army as a lieutenant colonel. During his tenure as an officer of the United States Army, he received a diploma in Chinese language in 1943 from Yale University. Dr. Stahr left the Army in 1946 and again joined the law firm of Mudge, Stern, Williams, and Tucker, this time as a senior associate, but left in 1947 to return to what he called his first love, higher education. He joined the faculty of his alma mater, the University of Kentucky, as an associate professor of law in 1947, but was quickly promoted to full time faculty in 1948, and soon thereafter, to the position of Dean of the College of Law. He was the youngest, (at the age of 32) to serve in this post. In 1954, he was named Provost of the University of Kentucky. During his career at the University of Kentucky, he also served as special assistant to the Secretary of the Army during the Korean Conflict, and under United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower in1956 as the executive director of the Committee on Education beyond High School. He left the University of Kentucky in 1957 to become the Vice Chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh. Soon after, he left his position at the University of Pittsburgh to become the President of the University of West Virginia. He stayed in West Virginia for two years before accepting the nomination by President Kennedy to serve as the Secretary of the Army. While in this position, Stahr established the Army Intelligence and Security Branch as a separate, professional division of the Army, oversaw the reorganization of the combat division of the Army, and expanded the community relations of the Army. Stahr gave up the position of Secretary of the Army to return to higher education as the President of Indiana University in 1962, where he succeeded his friend Herman B Wells as Indiana University's 12th President. In his inaugural address, he stressed the need for maintaining the leadership role IU had in fields where it was nationally renowned, for spending Indiana tax dollars to prepare the campus for the expected large influx of baby boom generation students, and for stressing the importance of higher education in creating jobs and security in the state of Indiana. During Stahr's presidency, Indiana University saw its largest expansion. In the course of his term, the awarding of baccalaureate degrees at the regional campuses began, as well as the addition of majors, such as the Study of Religion; of Divisions, such as the Honors Division, and of Schools, such as the Library Science School, within the Bloomington campus. He guided plans for the building of Assembly Hall, the Student Health Center, the Optometry Building, the Graduate Residence Center, and several different residence halls, including Briscoe, Wilkie, and Forest. The University School was also built during his term. His presidency witnessed the creation of the Aerospace Research Center which acted as a clearinghouse for technology developed by the government to be adapted for civilian use. His tenure also saw a large growth in the number of students and faculty, not only in Bloomington, but also in the regional campuses. Finally, Stahr led a reorganization of the university administration into three separate and distinct areas, the Bloomington campus led by a chancellor, the Indianapolis campus, and the regional campuses as more autonomous units. Dr. Stahr served as Indiana University President until 1968 when he stepped down due to "presidential fatigue." He wrote to the Board of Trustees stating that although he had enjoyed his term as president, he felt that he could no longer devote himself to such a large task as president. His intention, he told the Board of Trustees, was to return to Indiana University after a sabbatical as a professor of law. However, he accepted the position as President of the National Audubon Society in 1968, writing that the issue of conservation was something that could not be ignored. He retired as President of the National Audubon Society in 1978, after having seen the membership rate almost quadruple to 400,000, and being instrumental in liberalizing the tax laws in the United States to allow charitable organizations to lobby on public policy issues. Although retired, he was still active in a number of environmental and public service organizations until his death of cancer on November 11, 1998. 
Realizing the need for educational alternatives for those unable to attend traditional on-campus classes, the School of Continuing Studies was established in 1975 to offer further educational opportunities to individuals who worked full-time, had families, were homebound by illness, were in the military, or were in prison. Dean Dr. Robert Richey (Dean from 1975-1978) at the time noted the need for alternative methods of delivery to students rather than the traditional in-class lecture system. He cited alternate mechanisms for delivery of content such as cable television and video cassettes, the radio-television department, the eight campuses around the state, and the already established 130 university independent study programs. In the early days of its existence (1975-1976), the system wide school was comprised of the Division of Extended Studies, Labor Education and Research, and the Division of Continuing Education. By fall 1977, all eight IU campuses offered the Associate of General Studies and the Bachelor of General Studies degrees. The organizational structure of the school evolved under the direction of Dean James E. Weigand (1979-1993). Focusing upon the use of independent study, he fused the Independent Study Division and the External Degree Program into the Division of Extended Studies. He furthermore approved the formation of the New Division of Professional development, which sought to develop nondegree programs for professional associations and business. Additionally, during the course of the 1980s, the School of Continuing Studies established programs in Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Malaysia, and Iran. Kathy Krendl replaced Weigand as dean in 1994 and brought a focused commitment to the use of technology for the delivery of instruction, and furthermore sought to establish a distance education plan. During her tenure until 1996, the school implemented the Multicampus Technology Project, which created state-of-the-art videoconferencing facilities on each of the IU campuses. She was followed by Howard Mehlinger as interim dean, and then Jeremy Dunning as dean in the fall of 1999. In 2008 the School of Continuing Studies is under the direction of Judy Wertheim and is now comprised of the Office of Academic Programs, the Office of Financial Administration, Instructional Design and Development, Technology Support, the Office of Learner Services, and the Office of Marketing and Communications. In addition, to the school's General Studies degree  either the association of arts or the bachelor of arts  students are also given the opportunity to earn several certificates to further develop their career skills. In addition to credit programs, the School of Continuing Studies also offers an Undergraduate Nondegree Program for students wishing to update their jobs skills or looking to prepare themselves before entering a degree seeking program, and Professional Development and Lifelong Learning non-credit courses for those seeking to advance their career or simply seeking further education. Initiated in 1972 and co-sponsored by the Indiana University Alumni Association and the School of Continuing Studies, Mini University is another major program which seeks to provide a unique educational and vacation experience for adults. Another major initiative is the Leadership Bloomington- Monroe County program which is designed to teach skills to those seeking to lead in their workplace and community. 
BRYAN, William Lowe (11 Nov. 1860-21 Nov. 1955), philosopher, psychologist, and educator, was born William Julian Bryan on a farm near Bloomington, Indiana, the son of John Bryan, a Presbyterian minister, and Eliza Jane Philips. In 1876 he entered the preparatory department of Indiana University in Bloomington, which served as the local high school, and the next year he matriculated as a university student. As an undergraduate he developed his skills in public speaking and helped to revive the Indiana Student newspaper in 1882. He became a member of the Specialists' Club organized by David Starr Jordan, professor of natural sciences, to encourage promising students to pursue research careers. Bryan graduated in 1884 with a bachelor's degree in ancient classics. After graduation Bryan was hired as an English instructor in the preparatory department. Within a few months he received an unexpected opportunity to join the regular faculty when the president of the university, Baptist minister Lemuel Moss, and Katherine Graydon, the professor of Greek, were caught up in a romantic scandal and left the university. Bryan was hired as Graydon's replacement, and in early 1885 Jordan was appointed president. Jordan, a noted ichthyologist, placed science at the center of his ideas on educational reform and stressed that the highest function of the real university is that of instruction by investigation. Working with limited financial support from the state he relied heavily on local talent to fill the ranks of the faculty. Although Bryan earned a master's degree in philosophy at Indiana in 1886 with a thesis on ancient Greek logic, his interests shifted toward the new psychology that promised to revolutionize the study of human nature through laboratory experimentation and other empirical techniques. He went to Germany, the center of scientific psychology, in 1886-1887 to study at the University of Berlin; after returning he was promoted to full professor and granted $100 to purchase a Hipp chronoscope for experimental studies of human reaction times. In January 1888 Bryan opened the Indiana University Psychological laboratory, the second such facility established in the United States. Bryan married Charlotte Augusta Lowe in 1889 and in her honor replaced his given middle name with her last name. His wife was a graduate of Indiana University, having earned a bachelor's degree (1888) and a master's degree (1889) in Greek. They collaborated on two books, Plato the Teacher: Selections from Plato (1897) and Studies in Plato's Republic for Teachers (1898). They had no children. Bryan carried a heavy teaching load, and at first the psychological laboratory was used mainly for classroom demonstrations rather than original research. In 1891 he went to Clark University to pursue a doctorate under G. Stanley Hall, a prominent advocate of the new psychology. Bryan received his Ph.D. in psychology in 1892 for a dissertation on the development of voluntary motor abilities in children. He was also recruited by Hall to help organize the American Psychological Association, founded in July 1892, and became one of its twenty-six charter members. After returning to Indiana University, Bryan expanded the psychological laboratory and was appointed vice president of the institution. He resisted repeated offers by Jordan, who had become president of Stanford University in 1891, to join the faculty of the California school. Bryan also became involved in the child-study movement, an effort to develop a scientific foundation for pedagogical techniques. He served as an officer in several national organizations, including the secretary of the National Association for the Study of Children (1893) and the president of the Child-Study Section of the National Educational Association (1894). In the 1890s Bryan conducted pioneering psychological experiments. He investigated the process of learning to send and receive messages in Morse code on the telegraph. The research, published in the Psychological Review (1897, 1899), was among the first such studies to graphically represent its data in the form of learning curves and became a classic in the study of human learning. Because of Bryan's efforts, during this period Indiana University became an undergraduate training ground for notable future psychologists, including Edwin D. Starbuck, Ernest H. Lindley, and Lewis M. Terman. In 1902 Bryan was appointed the tenth president of Indiana University. The next year he was elected president of the American Psychological Association and delivered his presidential address on the problem of Theory and Practice (repr., Psychological Review 11 [1904]: 71-82). His remark that the scholar may at great price become a statesman suggested his ambivalence about leaving the laboratory for administration. Pious and scholarly, Bryan presided over the transformation of Indiana University from a small, traditional liberal arts college into a modern research university. He led the institution for thirty-five years and oversaw an era of enormous growth in student enrollments, physical facilities, and curricular offerings. He considered administration an exercise in practical psychology and viewed the university as a key institution for the transmission of cultural values as well as specialized knowledge. His most notable accomplishment was the expansion of graduate and professional training. During his administration, schools of medicine, education, nursing, business, music, and dentistry were established, along with many graduate programs and several satellite campuses around the state. By the time Bryan retired at the age of seventy-six, Indiana University had significantly broadened access to its programs and had dramatically increased the quality of graduate and professional education. Bryan was known as a pithy orator, and his speeches were highly moralistic. His strong belief in the scientific study of human nature was tempered by an equally powerful conviction that it was not sufficient to provide moral and spiritual guidance. Hence he maintained an interest in ethics and metaphysics throughout his life. In 1940 Bryan published Wars of Families of Minds, a book that reflected on the consequences of different ways of knowing the world. A colleague once called him a philosopher tamed by science--a characterization that could have easily been applied to Bryan's intellectual hero, William James. After retirement Bryan continued to live on campus in the president's house, and he remained a familiar sight walking along its wooded paths. He died in Bloomington. The institution he developed commemorated his work with many memorials, including the William Lowe Bryan Hall, the main administration building at Indiana University, and his hometown also named in his honor Bryan Park, a large municipal park. * Bryan's papers are in the Indiana University Archives. On his university administration, see Thomas D. Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer, vol. 2 (1973), and Burton Dorr Myers, History of Indiana University, 1902-1937, the Bryan Administration (1952). Bryan's career as a psychologist is described in Eliot Hearst and James H. Capshew, eds., Psychology at Indiana University: A Centennial Review and Compendium (1988), which also contains a comprehensive bibliography of his writings. Additional biographical material can be found in Manfred Wolfe Deputy, The Philosophical Ideas and Related Achievements of William Lowe Bryan (Ph.D. diss., Indiana Univ., 1947). Major obituaries are in the American Journal of Psychology 69 (1956): 325-27; Science 123 (1956): 214; and the New York Times, 22 Nov. 1955. Written by James H. Capshew 
Herman B Wells was born on June 7, 1902, in Jamestown, Indiana to Joseph and Anna Wells. In 1920, he graduated from Lebanon High School. Wells initially enrolled at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign but transferred to Indiana University in 1921 at the beginning of his sophomore year. While a student at IU, he was a member of the Sigma Nu fraternity, treasurer of the Union Board, member of the YMCA Cabinet, and business manager of the YMCA Red Book. Wells graduated from IU in 1924 with a Bachelor of Science in Commerce. After graduation, Wells worked as an assistant bank cashier at the First National Bank of Lebanon, Indiana for two years before continuing his education at IU. He graduated in 1927 with a Master of Arts in Economics. Wells began studying for his Ph.D. in Economics at University of Wisconsin-Madison but left school to take a job with the Indiana Bankers Association.In 1930, Wells became an instructor in IU's Department of Economics and Sociology in addition to working for the IBA. He became Assistant Professor in Economics in 1933 but took a two year leave of absence from IU to work for the Indiana Department for Financial Institutions. In 1935, Wells returned to IU and was appointed dean of the business school. After the retirement of IU President William Lowe Bryan, Wells became interim president in 1937 and was elected the 11th President of Indiana University in 1938. Under the leadership of President Wells, IU transformed from a small, locally oriented college to a world-class institution of higher learning through expanded enrollment, recruitment of new faculty, construction of new buildings, new program efforts, and campus beautification projects. He was a steadfast supporter of IU's faculty and students especially in the areas of academic freedom and civil rights. In 1962, Wells retired as IU's president and was named Chancellor of Indiana University, the first to hold that position. His primary duties as chancellor included special projects, fundraising, conferring with private donors, administrative duties, attending cultural and athletic events, and acting as senior advisor to the university. After the resignation of IU President Elvis Stahr, Wells served as IU's interim president from July to November 1968. While chancellor, Wells wrote his autobiography Being Lucky: Reminiscences and Reflections which was published in 1980. He maintained an office at IU until his death on March 18, 2000, at the age of 97.In addition to his roles at Indiana University, Wells held many appointed positions over the course of his career. He served as an economic analyst for the U.S. State Department's Office of Foreign Economic Cooperation from 1943-1944, as cultural affairs adviser to the U.S. Military Government in West Germany from 1947 to 1948, and as adviser to the Ministry of Pakistan in 1959 among other appointments. Wells was a member and served in leadership roles for several education foundations. He was a member of presidential committees on overseas voluntary activities and U.S.-Soviet trade relations.Wells was the recipient of numerous honors and awards including twenty-eight honorary degrees. Since 1962, Indiana University has given the Herman B Wells Senior Recognition Award annually to an IU senior who exhibits a strong academic record, as well as leadership and service to the university. The IU Foundation established the Herman B Wells Scholar Program which provides four-year academic scholarships to a selective group of IU Bloomington students. The main library at IU Bloomington was named the Herman B Wells Library in his honor in 2005.Please see Jim Capshew's brief biography of Herman Wells at http://www.indiana.edu/~libarch/Wells/wellsbio.html. 
In 1914, the Bureau of Public Discussion was established as a part of the Extension Division to respond to all letters to the university requesting information. The new Bureau first functioned as a lending library for the entire state, until this type of service was developed through the Indiana State Library. The Bureau collected materials and lent package libraries consisting of materials from recent books, pamphlets, reports, official documents, and magazine and newspaper articles on topics of current interest. Besides materials on current affairs, files on biography, fine arts, geography, travel and science were also kept up to date with new publications. Aiming to stimulate intelligent discussion of current political, economic and social questions, the Bureau assisted civic discussion clubs, debating societies, and literary clubs with recommendations regarding organizational procedures and suitable questions for debate and topics for study, and with bibliographies on current issues. Furthermore, in an effort to arouse interest in public discussion within the high schools, it conducted a State High School Discussion League. By the 1930s, the Bureau was serving schools, libraries, extension and correspondence students, forum groups, women's clubs, and other civic organizations and had expanded to include a Medical Package Library Service; Latin, music, and mathematics contests in high schools; a loan service of classical and dramatic plays and advisory services to assist local dramatic groups; and a service to teachers which provided information regarding the improvement of classroom instruction and aids to the development of school and community programming. 1945 marked a year of transition for the Bureau of Public Discussion in that the Bureau moved from the Extension Division of the University to the more expanded program of the new Division of Adult Education and Public Service. Under the directorship of Dr. Mary F. Anderson (1946-1961) and beginning in1949 with new library services available in Indianapolis, the Package Library Service was reoriented to exclude books and supply materials from specific periodicals and pamphlets carefully selected to represent a wide range of opinions and recent facts on current subjects of discussion. Additionally, special topics briefs were sent out by the Bureau from September to May, each containing quotations from many points of view on a particular subject and a bibliography for further reading on the subject, program suggestions, and other types of materials. In 1956, the Bureau was absorbed into the Office of University Extension. Under the directorship of Robert W. Hattery (1962-1987) and within the Division of Continuing Education beginning in 1969, the Bureau continued many of these same programs and maintained an extensive library of about a half-million publications of predominantly non-book reading materials focusing on contemporary public affairs. At the time this was one of the largest collections of materials on current affairs in the United States. The Bureau also regularly convened conferences, seminars, workshops, and non-credit short courses on topics of current interest. Furthermore, for those individuals or groups unable to attend meetings away from home, the Bureau developed a number of home-study programs which included guided readings, structured group discussions, and analytical writing exercises. The Bureau of Public Discussion was last listed in the School of Continuing Studies Bulletin in 1980; however, Robert W. Hattery continued to be listed as the Director of the Bureau of Public Discussion in the Indiana University Register until the 1986-1987 academic school year. 
Biographical Note/Administrative History
Adam William Herbert, Jr. was born on December 1, 1943 in Muskogee, Oklahoma. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science in 1966 and a Master of Public Administration degree in 1968 from the University of Southern California. Herbert received his Doctor of Philosophy degree in urban affairs and public administration from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971. He has served as a professor and in administrative roles at several universities including the University of Southern California, Virginia Tech, University of North Florida, Florida International University, Howard University, and the University of Pittsburgh. Herbert served as the 17th president of Indiana University from 2003-2007 and has the distinction of serving IU as its first African American president. As president of IU, Herbert oversaw several new initiatives in teaching, research, and public engagement. After leaving IU, Herbert and his wife Karen moved to Jacksonville, Florida. 
Born December 22, 1923 in Fort Wayne, Indiana, Joseph Charles Muhler attended Indiana University from 1942 until 1944 when he was drafted into the Navy. After World War II, he returned to Indiana University through support of the Navy as a dental student. In 1948, he received his D.D.S. followed by a Ph.D. in chemistry in 1951. He joined the IU chemistry faculty in 1951 as an assistant professor and in 1978 was named research professor of dental science and director of the School of Dentistry's Dental Research Institute, where he remained until retirement in 1984. A proponent of the practice of preventative dentistry, Dr. Muhler assisted in the development of the first preventative dentistry program at Indiana University. Dr. Muhler, teamed with IU professors Harry Day and William Nebergall, developed the original formula for Crest toothpaste in the 1950s. Dr. Muhler began the development of the product in 1945 and continued his research throughout graduate school. Dentists of that period believed that fluorides, specifically sodium fluoride, were the solution to tooth decay. Dr. Muhler researched over 150 fluoride compounds and eventually proved stannous fluoride was the most effective compound in hardening tooth enamel and protecting it. Impressed with Dr. Muhler's research, Procter and Gamble underwrote the research in 1949. Through clinical field tests on Bloomington, Indiana school children, the effectiveness of stannous fluoride was proven, and the Indiana University Foundation received a patent for the product. Licensed to Procter and Gamble, the product was branded as Crest and was distributed nationally in 1956. In 1960 the American Dental Association's Council on Dental Therapeutics endorsed Crest as an effective preventative measure against tooth decay. Dr. Muhler, Dr. Day, and Dr. Nebergall received royalties from the sales of Crest and designated that a percentage of the royalties would be received by the IU Foundation. Beyond the accomplishment of the development of Crest, Dr. Muhler's had extensive book chapters, books, and textbooks on dentistry related subjects. Significant books include Fifty-Two Pearls and Their Environment and A Textbook of Biochemistry for Dental Students. Beyond his association with Indiana University, Dr. Muhler held numerous consultant positions with major companies such as Coca-Cola and S.C. Johnson and Sons, as well as with the various branches of the United States military. Muhler claimed to hold over 800 patents nationally and internationally. Dr. Muhler died on December 24, 1996. 
Born June 29, 1912, in Oberlauringen, Germany, Horst Frenz attended the University of Goettingen, where he received his Ph.D. in English in 1936. Frenz moved to the United States in 1938 to attend the University of Illinois receiving a MA in 1939. Frenz came to I.U. in 1940 as an instructor in English, was promoted to assistant professor of world literature in 1945, associate professor in 1949, and full professor in 1954. Frenz retired in 1981. In 1949, Frenz helped establish the Comparative Literature program at IU, and he served as the first chairman from 1949 to 1977. In addition to these duties, in 1964 Dr. Frenz was named associate director of the School of Letters. Under the direction of Frenz, the Comparative Literature program was one of the first in the world to incorporate Asian-Western relations and an interdisciplinary approach into the curriculum. Outside of IU, Frenz served as the president of the American Comparative Literature Association from 1971-1974, and president of the International Comparative Literature Association from 1973-1976. Frenz was the recipient of Fulbright, Ford Foundation and Guggenheim Foundation fellowships, and he served as Editor of the Yearbook of Comparative and General Literature. In addition to authoring Die Entwicklung des Sozialen Dramas in England vor Galsworthy in 1938, Frenz published and co-edited numerous articles in the fields of drama, comparative literature and American literature.
Frenz died on November 17, 1990 in Bloomington. 
Although Russian had been taught in previous years as part of the war effort, in the fall of 1947, Michael Ginsburg began his tenure at IU as professor of Russian language and literature. Within two years, the need and desire for study in this area grew and in 1949, the Board of Trustees approved the establishment of the Department of Slavic Studies, with Prof. Ginsburg serving as its first chair. In 1958, the department was reorganized and renamed. The Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures concentrated on the languages, literatures, and linguistics of the Slavic and non-Slavic East European peoples, while the Russian and East European Institute, absorbing the already-in-place Institute of East European Studies, focused on the area subjects. The Dept. of Slavic Languages and Literatures provides a course of study in the language, literature, culture and linguistics of Russia, Bosnia/Croatia/Serbia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania and Ukraine. In addition to offering bachelor and master degrees, IU is the only university in the state of Indiana to offer a Ph.D. in Slavic Languages and Literature. 
The Kelley Student Government (KSG) was founded in 2001 and serves as the official representative voice of the Kelley undergraduate student body. KSG is also the governing body and umbrella organization of all registered student organizations within the Kelley school. KSG has two types of members: delegates from each undergraduate class and the presidents of every Kelley undergraduate organization. The Kelley Student Government works to facilitate positive change on behalf of the undergraduate student body. In addition to implementing independent initiatives, KSG collaborates with the administration to improve the Kelley undergraduate experience. The KSG Executive Board sits on the Undergraduate Policy Committee to assist with the business of the committee and to provide the student perspective. 
Joseph Bradford was born in 1815 in Maine, the son of Isaac and Shuah Jordan Bradford. His family later moved to Ohio. Joseph married Martha McMillian, and they moved to Indiana in 1854. The couple had five children: Perry (1859-1921), Eliza (1860-1933), Clara (1862-1940), John (1864-1941), and Albert (1868-1936). Perry, John, and Albert lived on the family farm their entire lives and operated the Bradford Sand Mining Company. They were also prominent landowners and active in their community. Eliza married Grant Monical, a doctor. Grant served during the Spanish-American War. He spent most of his career practicing medicine in Morgan County, Indiana. Clara married George L. Bush. The couple lived in Riverside, California and had two children, Bernard and Selma. The Bradford family were descendants of Governor William Bradford who came to America in the Mayflower. In the mid-1800s, Joseph Bradford and his brother-in-law, Joseph Campbell, began acquiring land in Martinsville, Indiana. In 1855, Joseph and Martha Bradford moved to what is today known as Bradford Woods. Their sons Perry, John, and Albert later discovered valuable sand on the property. In 1877, Perry Bradford successfully submitted the Bradford Sand Mining Company's articles of association to the Morgan County chamber of commerce, and the family began mining the sand and selling it to foundries. Over the years, the business grew, and additional land was acquired through the 1920s. Although the financial records of the company suggest they found themselves in some debt, the Bradfords and the Bradford Sand Mining Company survived the 1929 stock market crash. After Albert's death in 1936, all of the family's land and stock were transferred to John.In 1938, John Bradford deeded 900 acres of the Bradford family land to Indiana University for the use of the Riley Hospital for Children. This area, now known as the Bradford Woods, was first developed by Dr. Reynold Carlson and the Indiana University Recreation Department. Under the direction of Dr. Carlson, the Bradford Woods became a day camp area for handicapped children from Riley Hospital. Today Bradford Woods provides experiential and therapeutic outdoor programs for both adults and children. 
In 1972, the Indiana University Jewish Studies program began with a single Jewish literature class taught by English professor Alvin H. Rosenfeld to indulge his own academic interests and the growing interest of the student body. During the 1972-1973 academic year, the program saw its official beginnings, with help from a grant from the Lilly Endowment, and in 1992 the program was renamed the Robert A. and Sandra S. Borns Jewish Studies program. Today the program, is known as one of the country's leading centers on Jewish research with an interdisciplinary program including faculty in anthropology, history, literature, linguistics, philosophy, political science, religious studies, and others. Expanding form meager beginnings, in 1976 the program began offering a certificate in Jewish Studies and in 1992 a Bachelor of Arts degree. Today the program offers a Master of Arts in Jewish Studies and a PhD minor. Each year the program hosts numerous distinguished lectures, film screenings, Hebrew conversation hours, and social gatherings often in coordination with the Helene G. Simon Hillel Center on the Bloomington campus. 
The idea to form a Staff Council at Indiana University Bloomington was first conceived by President Herman B Wells prior to 1939. The Board of Trustees preliminarily authorized a Personnel Division in 1940, under which an Employee Advisory Committee was appointed. The purpose of this division and committee was to serve as liaison for relaying problems, desires, and grievances from non-academic employees to the university administration, as well as to advise the administration concerning relevant employee welfare policies and interpret said policies to employees. The Staff Council was officially authorized by the Board of Trustees in November 1951; it existed as a body of elected employee staff representatives democratically selected by and from non-academic staff at the university. The purpose of the Staff Council was to provide members of the university staff with a means of representative participation in the formulation of policies and solutions for problems affecting the general welfare of university staff personnel. The elected group provided a respected, organized medium of exchange of information between staff and administration which worked to promote the rights and benefits of personnel. Prominent issues with which the Staff Council dealt include the establishment of an employee credit union (1956), employee benefits issues, grievances, leave policies, and educational grants. The Staff Council also began the Fun Frolic, which is a highly successful fundraiser at Indiana University featuring a week-long carnival with rides, games, and food offerings. The idea for the Fun Frolic was originally conceived with the intention to use proceeds toward the establishment of a Staff Council Scholarship Fund. In 1993, the Staff Council was absorbed by the IU-CWA (Communications Workers of America), when the university Board of Trustees officially voted to acknowledge the IU-CWA as a formal union on campus. 
Born on August 17, 1928 in Waukesha, Wisconsin, James B. Christoph graduated with highest honors from the University of Wisconsin in 1950. He received his doctorate in political science from the University of Minnesota in 1956. In 1955, Christoph joined the Ohio State University political science faculty and eventually served as Assistant Dean of Arts and Sciences. He later earned a faculty appointment for the 1966-1967 academic year from John Hopkins University at that university's Bologna Center in Bologna, Italy. He then came to Indiana University in 1967 as the chairman of the Department of Political Science, a position he retained until 1971. In 1973, he began a one year term as the chairperson of the West European Studies Program. He continued to teach courses in political science and West European studies until his retirement in 1990. Christoph's research was focused on increasing the understanding of government politics and the society of post-World War II Britain. He authored and contributed to many books and articles on these topics, including two of his most recognized works, Capital Punishment and British Politics and The Mandarins of Western Europe, a book for which he served as editor. Led by his interest in British politics, he played a key role in the founding of the British Politics Group. He was president of this group from 1979-1980. Other accomplishments in his career include receiving Indiana University's Distinguished Teaching Award in 1980 and the Faculty Service award in 1988. He died in May 1998 at the age of 69, and was survived by his wife Natalie Kunz and their 5 children. 
The Folklore Students' Association (FSA) is a student run organization supported by the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology and Indiana University. FSA strives to provide support for IU folklore students, both graduate and undergraduate. FSA encourages members to broaden their personal horizons by providing opportunities to meet, work with, and exchange ideas with other developing scholars in the field. The association also seeks to build professional interests in members through such means as development workshops that bring in faculty and other professionals to speak with students on a variety of current issues in the discipline. Perhaps the most crucial objective is promoting the folklore discipline. By giving members opportunities to develop both personally and professionally, FSA seeks to aid them in preparing for their emergence as the next generation of folklore scholars. Likewise, in expanding the role of folklorists as both participants in and organizers of community events, FSA endeavors to bring folklore into the spotlight as a scholastic discipline. Through encouraging the efforts of students and facilitating familiarity with folklore among the communities in which we live, work, and study, FSA ultimately aims to propagate overall awareness of and interest in folklore as a vibrant sphere of academia. Folklore Students' Association website: http://folksa.wordpress.com/ 
Creation of a Safety Department was authorized in 1939. Throughout the period following World War II, security functions expanded to meet the needs of a rapidly growing university community. From a staff consisting of one assistant to the Dean of Students in the late 1940's, the Bloomington Safety Division grew to a force of approximately 50 officers in 20 years. The security force at the Indianapolis campus was about the same size by 1970. The other regional campuses had only informal safety or security operations prior to that year. Since the duties of these separate organizations were primarily custodial, it was considered sufficient for them to derive authority as security forces from special police or deputy sheriff commissions. In 1970, in response to a perceived need for a more sophisticated campus law enforcement agency, the president of the University initiated a plan to reorganize safety operations statewide. In cooperation with other state universities, I.U. prepared H.B. 1358 for consideration by the 1971 Indiana General Assembly. The bill, as amended, was signed into law on March 30, 1971 (I.C. 20-12-3.5-1 et seq.), enabling the Boards of Trustees of the universities concerned to appoint police officers. On April 24, 1971, the Trustees of Indiana University passed a resolution implementing the law that established University Safety as a fully empowered law enforcement agency. The office was given jurisdiction on all regional campuses, with the exception of Fort Wayne, which was within the jurisdiction of Purdue University. A new organizational structure for the Office of University Safety, implemented in 1971 and revised in 1973, included three operational divisions (Bloomington, Indianapolis, and Regional), as well as the I.U. Police Academy, which operated a police cadet program for students. The Department of University Safety is now known as the Indiana University Police Department. Records in this collection indicate that the terms were used in interchangeably for many years, which caused some confusion for university administrators, faculty, and students. In light of this, "Indiana University Police Department" became the favored term in the mid 1970s, though it is not clear when this change was made official. 
Ruth Clifford Engs was born Ruth Clifford on September 15, 1939 in Ridgway, Pennsylvania to Elinor and Theodore Alexander Clifford and was later raised in Bethel, Vermont. In 1957, she graduated from Cushing Academy in Ashburnham, Massachusetts and then enrolled at the University of Vermont in Burlington, where, in 1961, she earned a B.A. in Liberal Arts with a major in chemistry and minors in English literature and biology. After working as a laboratory assistant to virologist Elmer Pfefferkorn at Harvard Medical School from 1961 to 1963, Engs moved briefly to Australia where she worked as a computer programmer, before moving on to San Francisco, California in July of 1964. In 1968, she earned her degree in nursing from Merritt College in Oakland Hills, California and in 1970, she received M.S.'s in both Counseling Psychology and Health Education from the University of Oregon. After earning these degrees, Ruth Engs moved to Halifax, Nova Scotia where she served as an assistant professor at Dalhousie University, teaching both health education and nursing courses for a year. In 1973, she earned her Ed.D. in Community Health Education from the University of Tennessee, completing a dissertation entitled The personality traits and health knowledge of crisis intervention volunteers in the state of Tennessee. Degree in hand, she joined the Indiana University faculty as an assistant professor in the Department of Health and Safety Education in the School of Health, Physical Education and Recreation. In 1979, she was promoted to the rank of associate professor in the Department of Applied Health Sciences, and in 1990, she received a promotion to full professor in this department. Ruth Engs' initial research focused on exploring factors for the determinants of university student drinking behavior. During the 1970s and 1980s, she conducted research and produced significant scholarship related to this area of concentration, and frequently collaborated with David Hanson at the State University of New York, Potsdam. She also published several textbooks during this period, including Responsible Drug and Alcohol Use (1979), Alcohol and Other Drugs: Self Responsibility (1987), and Teaching Health Education in the Elementary School, which she co-authored with Molly Wantz. She led a committee that developed and produced a thirteen-minute alcohol education film entitled Booze and Yous (1975), and later, Drinking and Thinking (1985). Engs also developed the influential Student Alcohol Questionnaire which is still used today to measure college students' drinking behaviors and knowledge of alcohol. From 1976 to 1988, she served as the director of the Annual Drug and Alcohol Workshop at Indiana University. Dr. Engs' later scholarship shifted focus, as she took an interest in studying the role of alcohol in society in cross-cultural and historical contexts. As a result of her research into the history of health reform in America, Engs published Clean Living Movement: American Cycles of Health Reform in 2000 and later, The Progressive Era Health Reform Movement: A Historical Dictionary in 2003. Engs' interest in the study of views of health in a historical context also led to her publication of The Eugenics Movement: An Encyclopedia in 2005. In 2008, her book Unseen Upton Sinclair explored the previously unpublished writings of author and reformer Upton Sinclair. In addition to her published scholarship, Engs also taught Introduction to Health Counseling, Research Methods, Theories of Addictive Behaviors, Personal Health, and Epidemiology and Human Diseases. Aside from her work at Indiana University, from 1989 to 1995 Engs served as an adjunct faculty member at the Union Institute in Cincinnati, Ohio, developing an undergraduate alcohol and treatment curriculum. From 1999 to 2000, she also served as an adjunct faculty member for Walden University, for which she developed a distance learning curriculum for an introductory public health course. Throughout most of the 1980s, Dr. Engs operated a private stress reduction and self-hypnosis practice. In 2003, Ruth Engs retired with the title of Professor Emeritus of Applied Health Science. 
Lawrence Leslie Waters was born in Axtell, Kansas, on February 3, 1913. He earned a B.S. from Central Missouri State in 1935, and his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in 1939. Waters taught in the School of Business at the University of Kansas from 1939 to 1948, where he won an Excellence in Teaching award in 1947. In 1948, Waters came to Indiana University as a professor of Transportation and Business History in the School of Business. He remained with the school until his retirement in 1978. Waters won Excellence in Teaching awards in the Business School in 1971, 1974, and 1976. He was the coordinator of the European Productivity Agency program at Indiana University from 1955 to 1960 and played a role in the Indiana University International Business Forum from 1980 to 1994. From 1961 to 1966, Waters was the IU administrator of the Ford Foundation program for the improvement of teachers. Dr. Waters was a recognized authority on transportation and business. He authored or co-authored over a dozen books in these fields and wrote numerous articles, speeches and book reviews. He edited innumerable books and articles, and served on the editorial boards of several publishers and journals. Waters belonged to or held high offices in many professional organizations. Especially noteworthy was his service with the American Society of Traffic and Transportation, for which he served as a Director, President, and Chairman of the Board; his work with the Military Airlift Committee of the National Defense Transportation Association (Advisory Board, 1973-1984); and finally, his service to the Transportation Council of the United States Department of Commerce (member of Executive Committee, 1957-1960). Waters served as a consultant for corporations and for governmental units at the state and national level. He was on the board of directors of many companies, including Yellow Freight and Baldwin & Lyons, Inc. The honors Waters received during the course of his long career include: the Salzberg Honorary Medallion Award, presented by Syracuse University (1985); the National Defense Transportation Association's President's Award for Contributions to National Defense (1984); the Joseph C. Schleen Award for Excellence in Traffic and Transportation, presented by the American Society of Traffic and Transportation (1978); Distinguished Business Scholar, 1976-1977, by Beta Gamma Sigma; and the Distinguished Service Award in Transportation and Public Utilities, presented by the American Economic Association (co-winner, 1976). Waters was Indiana's Transportation Man of the Year in 1974. In 1979, the Indiana Transportation Conference was renamed the L. L. Waters Transportation Conference. Waters was awarded honorary doctorates by the University of Ghent (1979) and Indiana University (1987). Waters married Mary Louise Harrison in 1937. They had three children: Robert Lawrence, Linda Jean, and Donna Louise. Waters died on September 8, 2012 at the age of 99 in Bloomington. 
Born July 18, 1872 on a farm near Germantown (Wayne County, Indiana), Frank Orman Beck came to Indiana University as a student in 1890, receiving his A.B. in 1894 and A.M. in 1895 both in comparative literature. As an undergraduate he wrote a series of editorials in The Indiana Daily Student which were instrumental in the organization of the Arbutus yearbook which began in 1894. He was a charter member (1892) of the university's chapter of Sigma Nu fraternity, and secretary for the YMCA. While teaching part-time his senior year at Bloomington High School, he met then student Daisy Woodward a native of Monroe County and direct descendent of Colonel John Ketcham, one of the original IU trustees. The two married on July 23, 1899 shortly after she received her A.B. degree from the University. That fall the two moved to Boston, where she attended the New England Conservatory of Music and he Boston and Harvard Universities. He later went on earn a theology degree from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. from Edinburgh University in Scotland. Upon their return to the United States in 1912, the Becks settled in Chicago where Frank spent over 25 years serving as a teacher, minister, and social worker. He served as a professor at the Garrett Biblical Institute of Northwestern University, minister of the Wabash Avenue Methodist Church in the infamous First Ward on the fringe of The Loop, the first survey director for the Chicago Welfare department, the executive secretary of the Chicago Inter-Church World Movement and worked with Jane Adams in Hull House and in the missions along Skid Row. Drawing from each of these experiences, in 1956 he published the book Hobohemia. Retiring in 1934, Frank and Daisy returned to their alma mater where neither held official positions at the university, but rather served as unofficial counselors to the student body and the administration. In 1937, at the request of President Wells, Frank Beck began work to organize what would become the University Committee on Religion which consisted of representatives from various religious faiths and sought to ease prejudice with tolerance and understanding. The related Student Religious Cabinet formed shortly thereafter. As the programs grew, the Beck's began a nearly twenty year campaign to build a place of worship on campus for those of all faiths, and in 1957 thanks in large part to their own donation Beck Chapel was dedicated. The chapel houses the symbols of the Christian, Jewish, Buddhist and Muslim faiths. Until his death, Frank served as the chapel Curator, presiding over the weddings of numerous students. While working with Indiana University's religious programs, Beck was also extensively involved with community concerns such as issues effecting the elderly and race relations. Beck founded the Borrowed Time Club for senior citizens in 1949 which sought to combat the widely accepted notion of the social uselessness of the elderly, and was the first chair of the State Commission on the Aged and the Aging. In 1965 Beck was recognized by the state of Indiana for his work on behalf of senior citizens. In 1959 following on the path of his previous work for social and racial equality in Chicago, Beck published Some Aspects of Race Relations at Indiana University. Frank preceded his wife in death on August 17, 1968, at the age of 96, and she followed nearly four years later on April 24, 1972 at the age of 95. 
The Government Publications Department (GPD) at Indiana University, now known as Government Information and Kent Cooper Services, has always aimed to make government information and publications free and readily accessible to the public. Under its past and current titles, the GPD's responsibilities have been and still are to select, acquire and make available publications from city, county, state and federal governments. Additionally, the GPD has always maintained a selection of publications from foreign governments and international organizations. At one point the GPD took part in the Documents Expediting Project (DOCEX), which was started by the Library of Congress in 1946. DOCEX was a unique program in that it provided a way to obtain documents that had previously been confidential or otherwise unattainable for the public, such as records relating to the U.S. involvement in World War II. While DOCEX was discontinued in 2004, the GPD continues to obtain government publications through the Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP), as well as the U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO). 
First established in 1962, Indiana University's Undergraduate Library (UGL) was founded with the intention of providing undergraduate students with resources and programs more suitable to their needs than what was being offered by IU's Main Library. From 1962 to 1969, UGL contained between 33,000 and 65,000 books and periodicals, occupied three floors of space and was housed in what is today known as Joseph A. Franklin Hall. In 1969, UGL was moved to its present-day location in the west tower of the Herman B Wells Library. Proud of its brightly-lit reading areas, reserve reading rooms and media materials, UGL also became known for its Media Center, its career reference and browsing collections, as well as the Resource Center for the Visually Impaired. Additionally, UGL played a key role in developing an innovative bibliographic instruction program for IU in the 1970s. As a result of its merger with the Halls of Residence Libraries (HRL), the Undergraduate Library changed its official title in 1982, becoming the Undergraduate Library Services Department (UGLS). In more recent history, UGLS has been partnered with the Information Commons (IC), and is still committed to providing quality resources, support and information to undergraduate students at Indiana University. 
Construction on John Watson Foster Quadrangle began in January, 1961 and was completed in July, 1963. However, the housing crisis was so severe that 400 male students moved into Shea and Martin Halls at the start of the 1962 Fall semester. They were joined the following January by nearly 500 female students when Harper Hall and Gresham Cafeteria were finally opened. It took another nine months for all of the lounges to be furnished and the heating system to be installed. Foster Quad was designed to house 1189 students in a six-building "mini-university," complete with dining hall, recreation areas, caf/diner, classroom, laundry facilities, library, and its own branch of the IU Student Bookstore. Foster was dedicated on May 4, 1966, during the Founder's Day Ceremonies along with the newly completed Briscoe, McNutt, and Willkie Quadrangles. Foster Quad Student Government was established directly following the opening of the quad and was immediately admitted to the Residence Halls Association. The Indiana University Student Government (now IUSA) was more reticent to allow FQSG a seat on the Student Senate, but the issue was resolved quickly, and Foster was admitted to IUSG on March 26, 1963. The Board of Governors is the legislative arm of the Foster Quad Student Government and is comprised of twenty-three governors, each one representing a floor in one of the five residence halls and elected by the students living on that floor. The Executive Council reports to and is in attendance at the BOG meetings; however, Executive Council members do not have a vote. The Executive Vice-President presides over BOG meetings, while the Judicial Board Chairperson serves as parliamentarian. The Executive Board is elected every spring semester by the entire Foster Quad Student Body and consists of seven voting members and six non-voting members. The voting members are: President; Executive Vice-President; Financial Vice-President; Communications Vice-President; Programming Vice-President; Administrative Vice-President; and Executive Secretary. The non-voting members are: Recreational Sports Coordinator; IUSA Senator; President of the Black Student Union; President of the Foster International Living/Learning Center (FILLC); Foster Against Driving Drunk (FADD) President; and Social Coordinator. Members of both the BOG and the EC serve on a multitude of committees, including the Steering Committee, Special Affairs Committee, Community Council, Foods Committee and the Center Store Board. In February of 1965 Foster Quad established its own student run radio station, "Radio-Foster WFQR." Initially broadcasts only reached Harper Hall, but with the installation of an amplifier and completion of the FM tuner the station was soon broadcasting to the entire quad, 24 hours a day. For a time, Foster Quad also had its own newspaper, the Penetrator. The 1970s saw the FQSG continue to grow. The creation of the Foster Project or Foster Seminar Program was the first attempt on campus to teach classes in the Residential Halls. Eventually the Foster Project became the campus-wide Residential Education Program, teaching classes on topics such as evolution and the use of drugs, Existentialism, and rock lyrics, among others. Foster Quadrangle also created the successful Community Council system which allows students and administrators to work together to make the decisions that affect life in Foster. Like the Residential Education Program, the Community Council system spread to encompass the entire Residence Halls Association. Significant Foster Government accomplishments in the 1980s and 1990s include the chartering, building, and opening of Foster's weight room, the establishment of a successful aerobics program in 1986, and two years later the passing of a smoking ban for the Foster Center Store. During this time the FQSG continued to play an important role on campus, supporting annual activities like United Way's Miss-a-Meal, Red Cross blood drives, Little 500 events, and Miss Gay IU. Foster also supported such nationwide and campus groups as the Hip Hop Congress and OUT. 
Construction on Daniel Read Residence Center began in June 1953. Completed in 1955, the Center was originally known as the Smithwood Center and intended as a new dormitory for female students. In 1960, the Center was renamed Daniel Read Residence Center to honor the late professor of ancient languages who taught Indiana University's first female students. By 1996 the building was home to upperclassmen in the Music department and was perceived as a quieter, more study focused place to live. In place throughout the IU system, community councils oversee any aspect of center life affecting students and staff. The Daniel Read Residence Center Council is made up of representative groups from within the center, including center staff. It serves as an open forum for staff and students to proactively address center issues, to create programming, to use community resources efficiently, and to help sponsor events. 
Born on December 16, 1942, Mary Jo Weaver began her scholastic career by obtaining a Bachelor's Degree in Chemistry from Ohio Dominican College in 1964. She then went on to receive a Master's Degree in Theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1968 before becoming the first lay woman to receive a PhD in Theology from Notre Dame with her 1973 dissertation, "Pneuma in Philo of Alexandria." During this time, Dr. Weaver also served as an Assistant Professor of Religious Studies at Pontifical College Josephinum in Columbus, Ohio, from 1972 to 1975. Dr. Weaver's teaching career within the Indiana University Department of Religious Studies spanned the period from 1975 until her retirement in 2006. She now holds the title of Professor Emerita. In addition to teaching, she also served in a variety of administrative roles both within the University and in a number of professional organizations as well. Throughout her career, Dr. Weaver has been actively involved in research and publishing on subjects relating to American Catholicism, contemporary Christianity, women and religion, and mysticism and spirituality. These research interests are also reflected in the classes she taught at IU, most notably in her courses "American Catholicism," "Introduction to Christianity," "Women and Religion," and "Star Trek and Religion." 
Leo F. Solt, professor emeritus of History and dean of the University Graduate School, was born on October 12, 1921 in Waterloo, Iowa, and died in 1994 at the age of 72. He received his B.A. in 1943 from Iowa State Teachers College (now the University of Northern Iowa), before joining the U.S. Navy in 1943 to serve as an officer on the aircraft carrier Bataan in the Pacific during the final years of World War II. Following the war, he attended graduate school, receiving his M.A. in 1948 from Iowa State University and his Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1955. Solt taught courses at the University of Iowa and the University of Massachusetts before joining the Indiana University faculty in 1955. He was promoted to full professor in 1961, accepted the responsibility of Acting Chair of Indiana University's Department of History from 1962-1963, and served as Chair of the Department of History from 1965-1970. He also chaired the West European Studies Program Committee. In 1978 he was named dean of the University Graduate School, a position he held until 1987. During his tenure in the department and the graduate school, he was instrumental in bringing the Journal of American History, the national office of the Organization of American Historians, and the American Historical Review to Indiana University. Solt retired in 1992 with the title Professor Emeritus of History. Solt served as the president of the Midwest Conference on British Studies from 1968 to 1970 and as Vice President for Research of the American Historical Association in 1975. He is the author of two books Saints in Arms: Puritans and Democracy in Cromwell's Army and Church and State in Early Modern England, 1509-1640, as well as numerous reviews and scholarly articles, including "History of Britain, 1603-1714" for the 15th edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. 
Born on February 1, 1913 in Wichita Falls, Texas, Fred Walter Householder began his study of languages at an early age by reading the dictionary. After completing high school in Burlington, Vermont he attended the University of Vermont, where he received his A.B. in Greek in 1932. The following year he entered graduate school at Columbia University where he took his first linguistics course from scholar Louis Gray. Completing his M.A. in 1934, he continued his studies in pursuit of his Ph.D., receiving the Drisler (1935-1936) and the Seymour Fellowships (1936-1937) which allowed him to study at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens, Greece. While in Greece, Householder took up studying ancient doors and sills on top of his studies of the Greek language. While working towards his Ph.D. he married Clarice Bagley on February 6, 1935. Following the completion of his Ph.D. in 1941, Householder continued to lecture at Columbia University in Greek and Latin until 1946, at which point he took a position as an associate professor of classics at Allegheny College. Two years later, he joined the Indiana University faculty as an assistant professor of classics where he quickly rose through the ranks being named associate professor in 1951 and full professor in 1956. Over the next several years Householder served a variety of outside roles: a visiting professor at Cornell University, the University of Michigan, the University of Hawaii and as a Guggenheim Fellow (1958-1959). He retired from IU in 1983. During his time at Indiana University, Householder played an instrumental part in the elevation of the university's linguistics program to departmental status. Initially, there was just an interdisciplinary linguistics committee which formed the nucleus for the later establishment of a linguistic department. From 1959-1962 he served as the chairman of the Linguistic Committee. In 1963 the College of Arts and Sciences officially created the Department of Linguistics of which he served as the chair from 1974 through 1980. Although Householder held a busy schedule he always continued to research and write on a variety of areas including: Greek, Latin, Azerbaijani and much more. He and his colleague even installed the first Sona-Graph machine in the department's phonics laboratory. He was an active member in multiple professional societies and associations including: American Philological Association, Linguistic Society of America, Archaeological Institute of American, Modern Greek Studies Association and the American Association of Phonetic Science (participating on boards and committees too). He also wrote and participated in multiple research grants including for the United States Air Force on Turkic, specifically Azerbaijani; American Council of Learned Societies on an English textbook for Greeks; Contract with Rome Air Development Command on Information Retrieval; a National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) grants. Fred Walter Householder Jr. died on January 4, 1994. He was survived by his wife Clarice (Bagley) Householder and their two daughters Alison Prindle and Lynn Householder. 
Begun in 1940 and held annually each year except for two years during World War II, the Indiana University Writers' Conference was originally organized by IU English professor Cecelia H. Hendricks to provide aspiring writers with the opportunity to learn from and interact with more experienced and often nationally renowned or award-winning authors. Throughout its history, Conference Directors such as Ralph Collins, who took over in 1941, Robert Mitchner, and Roger Mitchell, amongst many others, and up until the current Director, Bob Bledsoe, have reached out over the years to numerous authors, editors, and literary agents to lead workshops in fiction, nonfiction, and poetry. Other topics, such as radio scripts and blogging reflected the writing styles and techniques popular to their day. Though much of the correspondence within this collection represents failed efforts to convince well-known authors to present at the Conference, many of staff's efforts were successful, bringing a variety of significant literary figures to teach in Bloomington. As noted by Kurt Vonnegut, a 1964 faculty member, it's "the most respectable writers' conference I know." 
A native Oklahoman, Byrum Earl Carter Jr. was born on March 3, 1922. Shortly before the outbreak of World War II, Carter began working towards his B.A. from Frederick Jr. College, however quickly his studies were interrupted by service in the Marine Corps and as a wage rate analyst for the War Labor Board. Following his discharge in 1943, Carter returned to his studies and in 1943 his received his B.A. from Oklahoma University. In 1945, he enrolled in the Wisconsin University where he began to work towards his Ph.D. and in 1947 he joined the faculty of Indiana University in the Department of Government. Upon the completion of his Ph.D. in 1951, he became a Junior Faculty member and over the course of the next decade he rose through the ranks, achieving the status of Full professor in 1960. In 1959, Carter began working his way the administrative ranks of the university as the Assistant Dean of Faculties, in 1963 he was named the Acting Dean of Faculties, Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences in 1966, and in July of 1969 following a large-scale reorganization of the state-wide University he was named by the Board of Trustees as the Chancellor of the Indiana University Bloomington campus. Among the duties noted for this new post were: Campus academic program development, campus budget development, recruitment, promotion, tenure, retention, and termination of faculty and staff members, enforcement of rules and regulations pertaining to students and faculty, supervision of student services, library development and coordination and other duties as prescribed by the President. Carter presided over the Bloomington campus during a period of great unrest, large-scale student demonstrations such as the 1969 boycott, the Ballantine Lock-In and those relating to the ongoing Vietnam War. Additionally, Carter was known for his discussion of the impact of veterans in the student population after World War II, the growth of the university and its graduate programs, and campus politics. On June 29, 1974 under the presidency of John W. Ryan the board of trustees again ratified a massive reorganization of the university system. The Bloomington and Indianapolis campuses were designated as the "core" of the Indiana University multi-campus system with responsibilities split between the Chancellors of Bloomington and Indianapolis, whose titles were changed to "Vice President" of their respective campuses to reflect their new responsibilities. The Vice President of the Bloomington campus oversaw the: College of Arts and Sciences, Graduate School, School of Music, Indiana University School of Law, Graduate Library School, School of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation. The Vice President of the Indianapolis campus oversaw the Health related professional schools, School of Social Services, School of Business, School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indianapolis School of Law, School of Continuing Education, School of Liberal Arts, Herron School of Arts, School of Science (in conjunction with Purdue), School of Engineering and Technology (in conjunction with Purdue). In addition to his administrative role, Byrum Carter was also noted for his scholarship and work within the classroom. In 1956, he was awarded the Faculty Research fellowship for his study, "The Political Theory of John Stuart Mill;" his book, The Office of the Prime Minister (Princeton University Press, 1957) became a New York Times best seller, and in 1957 he was awarded the Fredric Bachman Lieber Memorial Award for teaching. Carter resigned from the office of the Vice President of Bloomington in June of 1975 and on September 12, 1975, Robert M. O'Neil was appointed to the office. Carter finished his career in the Department of Political Science and retired from IU in December 1986 with the title Professor Emeritus of Political Science. Carter was married to Beth Peter in 1944 and they had two children Terry Elizabeth (Mrs. Robert Hedrick) and son Casey Keith Madison. 
The School of Commerce and Finance (now the Kelley School of Business) was established at Indiana University in 1920 with Professor William A. Rawles as dean. Since this time, the school has grown from an initial enrollment of 70 students in 1920 to over 8,000 students in undergraduate, graduate, and online programs, on two campuses, both full- and part-time. The school's doctoral program dates from just after World War II. In June 1947, the IU trustees authorized the Doctor of Commercial Science degree, which was later changed to a Doctor of Business Administration. The D.C.S. degree required candidates to be competent in five fields, including economic theory. Written and oral examinations in those fields and the preparation of a dissertation completed the degree requirements. In 1948-1949, there were 28 D.C.S. candidates. Since its inception, the doctoral program in the School of Business has graduated more than 1,000 students. 
John William Ryan was born on August 12, 1929, in Chicago, Illinois. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Utah in 1951. Ryan came to Indiana University as a graduate student in 1951. He received a master's degree in 1958 and a Ph.D. in 1959, both in political science, at IU. He was a research analyst in the Department of Revenue for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 1953- 55; research associate in the I.U. Program in Public Administration in Thailand, 1955-57; Assistant Director of the Institute of Training for Public Service on the Bloomington Campus, 1957-58; Associate Director, Bureau of Government, University of Wisconsin, 1958-62; Executive Assistant to the President and University Secretary, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 1962-63; Vice- President for Academic Affairs, Arizona State University, 1963-65; and Chancellor, University of Massachusetts, Boston, 1965-68. In July, 1968 Ryan become Vice- President and Chancellor for Regional Campuses. Dr. John W. Ryan was elected fourteenth president of Indiana University on January 26, 1971. One of the hallmarks of Ryan's administration was the development of the campuses at Fort Wayne, South Bend, Gary (Northwest), Kokomo, and Jeffersonville (Southeast) from extension centers to degree-granting divisions. During his tenure, a cooperative program of long standing in Richmond was launched as the University's sixth regional campus. After announcing his retirement as President in 1986, Ryan continued an active public role as a liaison, public speaker, and representative for IU. Dr. John Ryan passed away on Saturday morning, August 6, 2011 at IU Health Bloomington Hospital. He was married to his wife Patricia for 62 years, and the couple had three children: Kathleen, Kevin, and Kerrick. Portions of this Biography taken from "The Investiture of John W. Ryan as Fourteenth President of Indiana University" Program. 
The Indiana Club was first established at Indiana University on December 9, 1904. The club was reorganized September 29th, 1905 in an effort to resolve issues that had been problems during its first year. For example, the club had trouble obtaining regular membership and lacked a system to keep track of who was a member and who was not. The club was created to deal with political issues among student clubs, primarily due to the fact that fraternity and sorority members (the "Greeks"), had more clout in campus clubs than did those who were unaffiliated (the "barbs"), despite the fact that the latter made up the majority of the student population. It got to a point where the "barbs" had trouble getting involved with student organizations unless they could gain political support. The Indiana Club was first called the Barb Organization, but the name was changed at its first official meeting. The aims of the club were primarily social and literary, although politics and athletics were part of it as well. Social events were held for members and friends, and literary programs highlighting original works such as plays were regularly held. Any IU student who was not a member of a fraternity or other organization that stood "as a unit socially and politically" (1905 Arbutus) were eligible for membership. The club is last mentioned in the Arbutus in 1929, and a letter to Alumni members dated June 1, 1929, states as follows: "As for the Club itself, there is not much to tell. The members were very hopeful last fall, but with a debt of over five hundred dollars hanging over them, they say they do not feel encouraged to get new people into the organization.  The debt, of course, will be cared for but the Club will not go on unless the alumni express a desire to have it do so." On November 20, 1915, the Alumni Association of the Indiana Club was organized. Regular updates on members, including marriage and birth announcements, were given. Records in this collection suggest that the Indiana Club alumni group was still in existence in 1978, but it is not known how long it existed after that. 
The Annuitants' Association was established in 1975 to inform retired faculty and staff members enrolled in the TIAA-CREF retirement program about social and educational activities in the Bloomington area, as well as to provide information on retirement funds to its members. The brainchild of Chancellor Herman B Wells and Professor Harry Sauvain, the Association grew steadily in the decades after its founding and continues to have strong support today. In 2004, the name changed to the IU Association of Retired Faculty and Staff and in 2010, the name changed again to the IU Retirees Association. According to a history posted on the group's web site (http://www.indiana.edu/~iura/detailed-history.html), retirees from all IU campuses, their spouses or partners, widows or widowers, are welcomed into membership. 
George List was born George Harold Lisitsky in Tucson, Arizona in 1911. In 1933, he graduated from The Julliard School with a diploma in flute performance, and in 1941, earned a Bachelor's degree in music education from Columbia University. After completing a Master's in the same field at Columbia in 1945, he went onto earn a PhD in music theory with minors in composition and education from Indiana University in 1954. Throughout his life, List remained active as a musician, composer, and scholar of ethnomusicology and folklore. Before entering academia, List had a career as a school music teacher in New York City. In 1934, he established and directed the Madison Square Boys Club, a music school for underprivileged children in Manhattan. From 1939-1943, List remained in New York, teaching and directing several orchestras and bands in public school systems, as well as conducting for the International Workers Order. During this time, he was also active as a performing flutist in New York and Denver, and also published several compositions for flute, piano, voice, orchestra, and band. List began his academic career as an Instructor of Music at Colorado College from 1945-1946, then quickly became Assistant Professor (1946-1948) and Associate Professor (1948-1953) of music at Miami University in Ohio. He moved to Indiana University in 1954, where he remained until his retirement in 1976. During this time, he was prominent in the establishment of the Archives of Traditional Music and the Ethnomusicology program. During his time at Indiana University, List taught courses in folk music, music, anthropology, and folklore, and served as Director of the Archives of Traditional Music from 1954-1976 and Director of the Inter-American Program in Ethnomusicology at Indiana University from 1966-1976. His primary research interests included folk music, the traditional music of the Hopi tribes of Northern Arizona, as well as the music of indigenous tribes in the Caribbean regions of Colombia and the Andes and Amazon regions of Ecuador. Some of his notable publications include Cantos Costeos, Folksongs of the Atlantic Coastal Region of Colombia (1973), Music and Poetry in a Colombian Village: A Tri-Cultural Heritage (1983), Singing About It: Folksong in Southern Indiana (1991), and Stability and Variation in Hopi Song (1993). He also founded and edited the periodical The Folklore and Folkmusic Archivist and created and narrated the television program Music in the Life of Man, produced by the Indiana University Department of Radio and Television. List's most prominent contributions to Indiana University were his involvement in developing the ethnomusicology program and his tenure as Director of the Archives of Traditional Music. Since ethnomusicology was not yet an established field, List began his career as a lecturer in folk music, anthropology, and the recording and transcripting of traditional music. In 1964, he was appointed an associate professor in the Department of Folklore. In 1966, with the help of a grant from the Ford Foundation, List established and taught in the Inter-American Program in Ethnomusicology within the Folklore Department. This program specialized in the traditional music of the Americas, Europe, and Africa, only the third program of this type in existence at the time. Between 1954-1976, List also served as the Director of the Archives of Traditional Music. During this time, he formulated policies and procedures for the processing and use of the collections, making them accessible to researchers. His contributions were instrumental in turning the archives into an internationally known public research resource. Additionally, he was one of the first people to create practices for archiving and cataloging these types of materials, and some of his procedures served as models for similar music archives, such as those at UCLA. List retired from Indiana University in 1977 due to the onset of blindness caused by glaucoma. Despite his retirement, he remained active in the field of ethnomusicology, writing books, obtaining research grants, giving lectures, staying active in professional organizations, and publishing articles up to the age of ninety-one. List passed away on September 28, 2008 at the age of 97. 
John William Ryan was born on August 12, 1929, in Chicago, Illinois. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Utah in 1951. Ryan came to Indiana University as a graduate student in 1951. He received a master's degree in 1958 and a Ph.D. in 1959, both in political science, at IU. He was a research analyst in the Department of Revenue for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 1953- 55; research associate in the I.U. Program in Public Administration in Thailand, 1955-57; Assistant Director of the Institute of Training for Public Service on the Bloomington Campus, 1957-58; Associate Director, Bureau of Government, University of Wisconsin, 1958-62; Executive Assistant to the President and University Secretary, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 1962-63; Vice- President for Academic Affairs, Arizona State University, 1963-65; and Chancellor, University of Massachusetts, Boston, 1965-68. In July 1968 Ryan become IU Vice- President and Chancellor for Regional Campuses and was elected fourteenth president of Indiana University on January 26, 1971. One of the hallmarks of Ryan's administration was the development of the campuses at Fort Wayne, South Bend, Gary (Northwest), Kokomo, and Jeffersonville (Southeast) from extension centers to degree-granting divisions. During his tenure, a cooperative program of long standing in Richmond was launched as the University's sixth regional campus. After announcing his retirement as President in 1986, Ryan continued an active public role as a liaison, public speaker, and representative for IU. Dr. Ryan passed away on Saturday morning, August 6, 2011 at IU Health Bloomington Hospital. He was married for 62 years to his wife Patricia, and the couple had three children: Kathleen, Kevin, and Kerrick. Portions of this Biography taken from "The Investiture of John W. Ryan as Fourteenth President of Indiana University" Program. 
The University Committee on Historic Preservation was established in 1968 by then-interim president Herman B Wells "to provide a means for discussion and recommendation of ways in which the University might take a leadership role in identifying the problems of historic preservation in the state of Indiana and in indicating how those problems could be met." He further suggested that the committee might investigate ways of developing historic buildings and museums and that it might sponsor conferences, tours, and the collection of data. Donald F. Carmony was named the first chair of the committee, a position he held until 1971. University president John Ryan appointed a University Heritage Committee in 1976, chaired by University Chancellor Herman B Wells for the period from 1976-1987. The Heritage Committee included a Subcommittee on Historic Preservation (chaired by John B. Patton, 1977-1988), which was created to deal with preservation issues as they related to university buildings and properties. The University Committee on Historic Preservation was absorbed by the Subcommittee in 1986. In 1987, however, the subcommittee's parent, the University Heritage Committee, was dissolved, and the following year the Subcommittee was re-appointed at a university-wide level as the University Committee on Historic Preservation. Donald F. Carmony was named chairman, succeeding Patton. Carmony was succeeded by Philip Scarpino in 1989. A notable subcommittee of the University Committee on Historic Preservation has been the Cornelius O'Brien Lecture Series Committee which was organized in 1972 to administer the lecture series on preservation begun with donations by the O'Brien family. The O'Brien Lecture Committee had independent status as a university-level committee from 1977-1988, but became a part of the Historic Preservation committee again at that point. The O'Brien Committee was chaired by Donald F. Carmony, 1972-1980, 1988-1989, and by John B. Patton, 1980-1988. Another important activity of the University Committee on Historic Preservation has been to arrange an annual conference on historic preservation, which first occurred in 1969 has been held at various locations around the state. 
John William Ryan was born on August 12, 1929, in Chicago, Illinois. He earned his Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Utah in 1951 and earned his master's degree and Ph.D. at Indiana University in 1958 and 1959, respectively. He was a research analyst in the Department of Revenue for the Commonwealth of Kentucky, 1953-55; research associate in the I.U. Program in Public Administration in Thailand, 1955-57; Assistant Director of the Institute of Training for Public Service on the Bloomington Campus, 1957-58; Associate Director, Bureau of Government, University of Wisconsin, 1958-62; Executive Assistant to the President and University Secretary, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, 1962-63; Vice- President for Academic Affairs, Arizona State University, 1963-65; and Chancellor, University of Massachusetts, Boston, 1965-68.In July 1968, he became Vice-President and Chancellor for Regional Campuses at Indiana University. In this post he guided the development of the campuses at Fort Wayne, South Bend, Gary (Northwest), Kokomo, and Jeffersonville (Southeast) from extension centers to degree-granting divisions. On January 26, 1971, Ryan was elected the 14th president of Indiana University. As President, he saw the establishment of two new IU campuses in New Albany (Indiana University Southeast) and in Richmond (Indiana University East). He also oversaw the formation of various cultural centers on the IU Bloomington campus and the creation of the IU School of Journalism, IU School of Continuing Studies, the IU School of Optometry, and the IU School of Public and Environmental Affairs. During this time, he was also active in many organizations including the Air Force's Air University, American Society for Public Administration, Indiana Bell Telephone Company, College of St. Thomas, and State Life Insurance Company. In 1987, Dr. Ryan retired as president and was awarded the title President Emeritus of Indiana University. He continued to serve as a professor in the School of Public and Environmental Affairs and as a member of several boards and committees. Ryan also maintained an active public role as a liaison, public speaker, and representative for IU. He also served in short-term administrative roles including as interim president at the University of Maryland at Baltimore and at Florida Atlantic University, as advisor to the Papua New Guinea Commission for Higher Education, and as Chancellor of the State University of New York.In 1949, he married D. Patricia Goodday. They had three children, Kathleen Elynne, born in 1950; Kevin Dennis Mitchell, in 1951; and Kerrick Charles Casey, in 1953. Dr. Ryan died on August 6, 2011. 
The Browning Society of Indiana University was established circa 1916 as a social and cultural club for students who had an interest in the poetry and other literary works of Robert Browning and his wife Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Students would meet to discuss Browning's works and the nineteenth century society that he created them in. Meetings were held regularly and would take place at various fraternity and sorority houses and other buildings on campus and would often feature special programs and talks by university faculty and students. The Browning Society did not have a direct affiliation with the Indiana University English Department and membership was open to all students, male and female. Membership, though, was very limited. Students were granted membership by invitation only, and the club would vote before accepting any new members. It is not precisely known when the club disbanded. The last date in the book of minutes is from November 1921. 
Born in New York City on April 6, 1913, Martha Lipton went on to win a scholarship to the Julliard School, graduating in 1942 and the following year becoming an Honorary Member of Delta Omicron, a worldwide music fraternity at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. In 1944 she made her debut with the New York Opera Company and went on to also perform with the New York Metropolitan Opera. Her 401st and last performance with the Met was in 1961. During her career Lipton performed three dozen roles in four languages. She also sang under famous conductors such as Bruno Walter, Leonard Bernstein, and Leopold Stowkowski. Lipton came to Indiana University as a professor of voice in 1960 where she also performed in many IU opera productions. The most notable being Puccini's "Aida" in which she played the role of Amneris in IU's outdoor stage production at Memorial Stadium in July and August of 1963. While she officially retired from teaching in 1983 with the rank of professor emeritus, she continued to teach part-time until her death on November 28, 2006. 
On December 3, 1937, as one of his first official acts as University President, Herman B Wells established a University Committee on Religion. Composed of members of faculty, local clergymen, group religious sponsors, lay members, and students, the group was tasked to correlate the independent religious activities on the campus, and to study trends and agencies here and elsewhere for the expansion and unification of religious service to faculty and students, and throughout its existence served as a clearinghouse in coordinating religious programs. With Frank O. Beck serving as the Executive Secretary, the group oversaw the establishment of the Student Religious Cabinet which consisted of representatives from various religious faiths on campus. The committee was last mentioned in the University Register in 1962. 
The University of Islamabad project focused on establishing a residential postgraduate university with an emphasis on advanced teaching and research in science and technology located in Islamabad, Pakistan. This initiative included developing academic programs for Master's and Doctorate degrees, with the intent that graduates become scholars, teachers, and researchers at universities in Pakistan. At the time, most scientists and Ph.D. degree holders obtained their degrees at Western universities and stayed in those countries to teach and conduct research. The goal of the University of Islamabad was to create a university comparable to those in the West in order to reduce Pakistan's dependence on foreign countries for advanced scientific training. Part of the project plan was to bring Pakistani scientists back to their home country to teach and do research with the promise of a high-ranking university position, competitive salary, prestige, and a professional work environment. This project was funded by the Ford Foundation and administered by the Office of Research and Advanced Studies at Indiana University, which was headed by Lynne L. Merritt during the span of the project. Chancellor Herman B Wells, who was President of the Indiana University Foundation at this time, also took a very active role in the planning and management of this project. Wells frequently traveled to Pakistan, both for preliminary research and to monitor the project's progress. He remained in frequent correspondence with Dr. Raziuddin Siddiqi, the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Islamabad and director of the project in Pakistan, and served as the primary contact person between Indiana University and the Ford Foundation for this project. The Ford Foundation grant began in 1966, and it is unclear when the Ford grant ran out or when Indiana University's association with the project ended. The latest record of IU's involvement comes from an order for a journal for the University of Islamabad's library dated 1974. There does not appear to be specific information about the termination date of the Ford grant or IU's departure from the project in this collection. Indiana University's contributions to the project included the following: providing consultants for the organization and development of the University and planning of its campus, hiring visiting professors to teach short-term appointments at the University of Islamabad, recruiting Pakistani teachers residing abroad to the University, and purchasing library books, journals, and equipment. The grant also paid for visits to Western countries, such as the United States and the United Kingdom, for select Pakistani faculty and administrators to observe how several Western universities managed their institutions. Select students were also sent abroad to obtain PhDs, with the understanding that they return to Pakistan and join the faculty at the University of Islamabad. Since Indiana University's role in the project revolved around managing the construction and staffing of the University of Islamabad, most of the work was conducted from the United States rather than Pakistan. Consultants and visiting faculty came from many universities worldwide, but largely from the United States, Canada, and several European countries. Indiana University was in charge of arranging these visits for all instructors, regardless of their country of origin. Visiting faculty and consultants from Indiana University included Vaclav Hlavaty from the Mathematics Department, Walter John (W.J.) Moore from the Chemistry Department, and F.B. Malik and Don Lichtenberg from the Physics Department. In 1968, Stanley Hagstrom from the Chemistry Department served as a consultant for the installation of computers purchased for the university and the training of staff. This project worked to build the University of Islamabad from the ground up, including the construction of new campus buildings. In 1966, Indiana University entered into a contract agreement with the architect Edward Durell Stone to provide master drawing plans for the construction of the University of Islamabad campus. Stone was contracted to design the following buildings for the university: institutes of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, earth sciences, social sciences, and Islamic studies; a library and administration building; an auditorium and community center; and student hostels and staff residences. Classes began in October 1966 in rented buildings containing the institutes of physics and mathematics. Future phases of the project included plans to create an institute of economics, followed by chemistry, biology, earth sciences, and social sciences institutes. The first new buildings designed by Stone opened in 1971. The collection does not contain much information about construction post-1971, but the project was eventually completed with brand new campus buildings and academic programs in all planned fields of study. In 1976, the university's name was change to Quaid-i-Azam University, the name by which it is currently known. 
The University of Dacca Institute of Business Administration project in Dacca, East Pakistan was administered by the Indiana University School of Business from 1966-1970 through a grant from the Ford Foundation. Danilo Orescanin, Costic Roman, and Lee Nehrt each served terms as Chief of Party. Edgar G. Williams, Associate Dean of the Business School, served as the Indiana University Campus Coordinator. Initial short-term consultants were Joseph Waldman and Maurice Mandell, with other faculty members serving one or two year appointments throughout the course of the project. The project was designed to establish a graduate level university program to provide training, research, and consulting services in modern management methods to students in East Pakistan. It was the only institution of its kind in East Pakistan at the time. Groundwork for the Institute of Business Administration (IBA) began in 1965, and the institute officially opened on November 1, 1966. The IBA offered an MBA degree, diploma programs, and short courses in the fields of management, research studies on business problems, and consulting services for the business community. Indiana University assisted by providing consulting services in administration and in curriculum development and by providing teaching and advisory assistance. Overall, the Institute of Business Administration was regarded as a successful program. By 1969, there were 750 student applicants for 158 positions, 8 faculty members at the IBA campus, and 9 IBA faculty members enrolled in graduate degree programs at Indiana University. The increase in faculty allowed for a move to a larger building, an increase in the number of courses offered, a higher degree of specialization within fields of study, and a greater research output. Additionally, an internship program was developed, giving students the opportunity to gain practical work experience between their first and second years in the MBA program. Indiana University applied to the Ford Foundation for an extension of the grant for the period from 1970-1972, but conflict in the region forced the project to end when East Pakistan seceded from Pakistan and became the independent state of Bangladesh in 1971. 
The office of Vice President of Administration was established during the 1974 University reorganization and was responsible for the management of a wide range of University functions. The office's diverse duties included budgetary administration, management services, computing systems, and intercollegiate athletic programs. Incumbent Glenn Ludlow served as Assistant Vice President of Administration from 1975 until 1981. Ludlow's duties as Assistant Vice President of Administration pertained mainly to management services and included such responsibilities as management of the University registrar, faculty record systems, fellowships, safety and security, Affirmative Action Program, University scholarships and financial aid, long-range planning, internal auditing, I.U. Press, and the University Archives. 
Biographical Note/Administrative History
The Alpha Kappa Psi Fraternity was founded on October 5, 1904 at New York University and is recognized as the world's oldest and largest professional business fraternity. The objectives of the national fraternity are to further the individual welfare of its members; to foster scientific research in the fields of commerce, accounts and finance, and to promote and advance within higher education courses leading to degrees in business administration. The Beta Gamma Chapter at Indiana University, Bloomington was founded on April 5, 1927, though the earliest records represented in this collection date back only to 1939. The chapter is still operating as of 2013. 
Biographical Note/Administrative History
Camilla Williams was born on October 18, 1919 in Danville Virginia. She earned a Bachelor's of Science degree in music education from Virginia State University and in 1943 she won the first Marian Anderson Award which was established by the African-American opera singer to support young singers. In 1946 she was the first African American to get a contract with the New York City Opera singing the lead role of Madame Butterfly. She married Charles T. Beaver (a civil rights lawyer who worked with Malcolm X) in 1950. Other notable points in her career included being a guest of President Eisenhower in 1960 at the White House where she performed for the crown prince of Japan during his state visit, and on August 28, 1963 as part of the Civil Right March on Washington singing the Star Spangled Banner at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C. for 200,000 people before Martin Luther King's famed "I have a dream" speech. Camilla Williams' teaching career began with a faculty position at Brooklyn College as a professor of voice from 1970 to 1973 and Queens College from 1974 to 1977. She came to Indiana University in 1977 and became the first African-American professor of voice at the Jacobs School of Music. In 1984 she was also the first African-American to teach at the Central Conservatory of Music in Beijing, China. She received numerous honors and awards over the years including: the Art, Culture and Civic Guild Award for her contribution to music in 1962, the Harlem Opera and World Fellowship Society Award in 1963, and in 1971 her hometown of Danville, Virginia designated a park in her name. Furthermore, in 1995 she was the inaugural recipient of the National Opera Association's "Lift Every Voice" Legacy Award and the following year Harvard University named her as an Outstanding African American Singer and Pioneer. Indiana University awarded her with the President's Medal for Excellence in 2009. She retired officially from university duties in 1997, but continued to teach privately until her death in January 2012. 
During the 1930 summer session, Indiana University offered its first class for the preparation of school librarians. The class was taught through the School of Education and was offered only in the summer until 1938, when the class was expanded and offered throughout the entire school year. That same year, Margaret I. Rufsvold came to I.U. to help develop the Library Science curriculum. In 1947, the Division of Library Science (DLS) was established within the School of Education, with Rufsvold as its director. DLS offered an undergraduate program consisting of eighteen semester hours of work and ten graduate semester hours that were only offered in the summer. At the time, the Division concentrated on training individuals for work in school and public libraries. Students focusing on school librarianship were granted a school librarian's provisional certificate in the library science area. The certificate was valid for five years and could be converted to a first-grade certificate if a Master's degree was acquired. In 1949, the curriculum was expanded to include a five year program that would lead to a Master of Arts with a major in Library Science. In 1951, DLS moved to the new Education Building. The program grew further to include two new degrees. The first was a Master of Arts degree with a major in Library Science for persons interested in becoming school librarians. The second was offered jointly through the College of Arts and Sciences and the School of Medicine, and was a Bachelor of Science degree in Medical Record Librarianship. That same year the American Library Association (ALA) adopted new standards for accreditation of library schools. In April 1953, after two years of preparation, the DLS was granted accreditation by the ALA. In the early 1960's discussion of a new library building was introduced as the DLS program continued to expand, and by the end of 1964 the Program began to offer courses at the I.U. regional campuses. That same year discussions began to establish a doctoral program in library science, which eventually led to the creation of a Graduate Library School in 1966 and a split between Library Science and the School of Education. The result was The School of Library and Information Science (SLIS). Rufsvold held the title of Dean for the newly created school for two months before relinquishing her administrative duties in order to teach full time. Charles H. McMullen served as acting dean from August 1966 through June 1967, when Bernard Fry was named to the post, a position he held until his retirement in 1980. During Fry's tenure, the school was noted nationally and internationally as being in the top five schools in the field. Fry also initiated The Research Center for Library and Information Science, which produced major studies for the National Science Foundation, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Education. He retired from the IU faculty in 1984 and was awarded the title Professor Emeritus of Library Science. In July of 2013, SLIS merged with the School of Informatics and Computing and became the Department of Information and Library Science. 
James H. Madison was born on October 5, 1944, in York County, Pennsylvania. He attended Gettysburg College where he received his Bachelor of Arts in 1966. Madison received his Master of Arts in 1968 and his Ph.D. in 1972 from Indiana University. From 1972 to 1973, he was a Harvard-Newcomen Postdoctoral Fellow in Business History at Harvard University. In 1973, Madison returned to Indiana University as a Visiting Assistant Professor of History and Visiting Associate Editor of the Journal of American History. In 1976, Madison was named Assistant Professor of History and Editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. In 1981, he became an Associate Professor. Madison served as an Exchange Professor at the University of Kent during the 1982-1983 academic year. He served as chair of the History Department from 1993-1997. Madison was a Fulbright Professor at Hiroshima University in Japan during the 1997-1998 academic year. In 2000, Madison became Thomas Milton Miller and Kathryn Owens Miller Professor of History. He served as Director of the Liberal Arts and Management Program from 2003-2009. Madison retired from IU in 2011 and was given the title Thomas and Kathryn Miller Professor of History Emeritus. Over the course of his tenure at IU, Madison was the recipient of several awards including the Sylvia E. Bowman Distinguished Teaching Award and the IU Student Alumni Association "Student Choice" Award. Madison has authored multiple books including Indiana Through Tradition and Change (1982), The Indiana Way: A State History (1986), Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977 (1989), Wendell Willkie: Hoosier Internationalist (1992), A Lynching in the Heartland: Race and Memory in America (2001), Slinging Doughnuts for the Boys: An American Woman in World War II (2007), World War II: A History in Documents (2010), Hoosiers: A New History of Indiana (2014), and The Ku Klux Klan in the Heartland (2020). He has served on the Board of Indiana Humanities, as a trustee of the Indiana Historical Society, and as a member of the Indiana Bicentennial Commission. Madison married Jeanne Myers on August 26, 1967. Jeanne is a biologist who worked in the IU Department of Biology and later managed IU's Lifelong Learning and Mini University programs. 
Madison's notable books related to Indiana history include, Indiana Through Tradition and Change (1982), The Indiana Way: A State History (1986), Eli Lilly: A Life, 1885-1977 (1989), and Wendell Willkie: Hoosier Internationalist (1992). He has served as associate editor of the Journal of American History and as editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. 
Marina Svetlova was born Yvette von Hartmann on May 3, 1922 to Russian parents in Paris, France. She began studying dance at a young age and debuted professionally as a child performer in 1931, with the experimental dance troupe of Ida Rubinstein. While in Paris, Svetlova studied under Vera Trefilova, Lubov Egorova, and various other Russian emigres. She became a soloist with the Original Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in her late twenties, dancing with the company for three seasons and performing notable roles in David Lichine's Graduation Ball and George Balanchine's Balustrade. After Leaving Ballet Russe, Svetlova came to the United States. In the U.S. she danced as a guest artist with the American Ballet Theatre in New York City and in 1943, assumed the position of Prima Ballerina with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, where she remained for seven seasons, leading the opera's 1949 and 1950 tours. She was also a featured soloist with the New York City Opera Ballet for one season, and led her own touring dance troupe from 1944-1969. In addition to her performance career, Svetlova was also a dance teacher and choreographer. She worked for the Southern Vermont Art Center from 1959-1964 before founding Svetlova Dance Center in Dorset, VT in 1965, serving as its director until 1995. Svetlova joined the IU School of Music and its Ballet Department as a part-time instructor in the spring of 1970. By the fall, she was named department chair, a role she held until her retirement in 1992. Svetlova lived in Bloomington until her death on February 11, 2009. 
Menahem Pressler, an internationally acclaimed pianist, was born in Magdeburg, Germany on December 16, 1923. His family emigrated to Israel to escape Hitler and Nazi sentiments in 1939 when he was 15, and it was there that Pressler began his education in music. He was enrolled in the Tel Aviv Conservatory and studied with Eliah Rudiakow and Leo Kestenberg, before beginning to play smaller concerts and on Israeli local television. In 1946, Pressler entered the International Debussy Piano Competition as a contestant to be held in San Francisco, California, and flew there from Israel to compete for the $1,000 prize. His aptitude was recognized by the Competition's jury and he won the prestigious award, along with the chance to debut his talents on a North American concerto with the Buffalo Orchestra, as well as the Philadelphia Orchestra. Pressler began his international career as a concert artist after this point, travelling throughout the United States, England, Belgium, Holland, the Scandinavian countries, and Israel to perform as a soloist, as well as with orchestras. Throughout this time, Pressler continued his studies with, first, Egon Petri, and then Edward Steuermann, before accepting a teaching position at Indiana University's Jacobs School of Music in Bloomington, Indiana, in 1955. Concurrently to his teaching, Pressler co-founded, and was a continuing member of, the Beaux Arts Trio with fellow musicians Daniel Guilet, violinist, and Bernard Greenhouse, cellist. The group made their debut performance at the Berkshire Music Festival on July 13, 1955, now known as the Tanglewood Music Center (Massachusetts). The group set the standard for trios around the globe, and is considered one of the most enduring and widely acclaimed classical, chamber music ensembles. The Beaux Arts Trio has performed more than one hundred concerts and master classes in each year they played together, and made over fifty recordings. The Trio resided on the Indiana University, Bloomington campus each summer, teaching classes to students and performing in local, public shows. Over the fifty-three years the Trio performed together the members changed: the last configuration of the group included Daniel Hope, violin, and Antonio Meneses, cello. The Trio made their final performance on August 24, 2008 on the same stage at Tanglewood, before receiving a Lifetime Achievement Award from The Edison Foundation on June 11, 2009. As a soloist, Pressler has performed with some of the world's top ensembles, including the orchestras of New York, Chicago, London, Paris, Brussels, and Oslo. He has compiled more than thirty solo recordings, ranging from the works for Bach to Ben Haim. Pressler has received much recognition related to his work as a musician and has won many awards including the Debussy Prize (1946), Germany President's Cross of Merit, First Class (2005), France's Order of the Arts and Letters (2005), Honorary Fellow of the Jerusalem Academy of Music and Dance (2007), a Lifetime Achievement Award from The Edison Foundation (2009), and four Grammy nominations. Menahem Pressler married Sara (of Petah Tikva, Israel) in the early 1950's. They have a son, Amittai Pressler, radiology technician, and daughter, Edna Pressler, clinical psychologist and an instructional designer. Sara preceded Menahem in death on December 19, 2014 More information about Menahem Pressler can be found on his official webpage: http://menahempressler.org/ 
The library has long been an important institution at Indiana University with Theophilus A. Wylie serving as the first librarian of the university. Originally located in Wylie Hall, then Maxwell and Franklin Hall before the Main Library was opened in 1969 to meet the growing needs of students, staff, and faculty at the Bloomington campus. The library was originally built to house 2,600,000 volumes. In 2005, the library was renamed the Herman B Wells Library to honor the long-time support and dedication of IU president and chancellor Herman B Wells to the library. Wilmer Henry Martin Baatz was born on October 23, 1915 in Fort Wayne, Indiana. In 1940, he earned his Bachelor of Arts degree, and in 1941 he earned his Master of Arts degree in English, both from Indiana University. During World War II, Baatz served in the U.S. Army Air Corps for three and half years. After the war, he attended the University of Chicago where be obtained his Library Science degree in 1946. After graduate school, Baatz took a job as an Assistant Librarian at Beloit College in 1947. From 1949-1950 he worked as the Assistant Director of Libraries for the University of Rochester. He subsequently worked as the Chief of Technical Services at the Milwaukee Public Library from 1950-1955, as Supervisory Librarian for the Veterans Administration in Washington, D.C. from 1955-1960, and as the Chief Librarian of the Federal Aviation Agency from 1960-1965. Baatz joined the Indiana University Library in 1965 as an Assistant Director and worked for the IU libraries for twenty years. During that time, he was responsible for recommending the cooperative library projects between the IU campuses that allowed faculty to use all state university library materials. He was also behind the idea to copy Bloomington library resources on film so that faculty and students at all campuses would have access to the same information. Baatz was knowledgeable about grant funds for libraries, and successfully helped to bring more than a half a million dollars in grant funding to Indiana University. Additionally, he worked to improve library resources for the Black Culture Center and the African-American Studies curriculum. During the course of his career, he published more than thirty-four articles and books. He served as an officer or chairman of several professional organizations, such as the Indiana Library Association and the Special Libraries Association. Baatz retired from librarianship in the spring of 1986, but continued to volunteer his time to the university by working part-time at the Black Culture Center. Wilmer Baatz passed away on February 21, 1991. 
The Indiana University Libraries comprise one of the leading academic research library systems in North America, providing strong collections, quality service and instructional programs, and noted leadership in the application of information technologies. After Indiana College was officially renamed to Indiana University in 1838, the student body began to grow in large numbers. In 1841, when the University was only about two decades old, chemistry professor and librarian Theophilus A. Wylie created the first catalog of all of the books Indiana University retained in its holdings. In 1888, the library employed eight staff members, and although it was growing exponentially each year, it contained less than 30,000 volumes. From the 1940s through the 1970s, the University continued to broaden its objectives and serve the cultural, professional, and practical needs of the state. As the years went on and the University grew, library employees and university administrators were coming to the realization that the current location of the library in Franklin Hall, on the flagship campus of the University (Bloomington), was no longer capable of housing the entire collection and therefore no longer capable of meeting the needs of the students and faculty. A new facility would be required in the near future to meet these needs, and the process of acquiring funding for the project began in the 1960's. The construction of the Main Library was completed in spring of 1969, and it was formally dedicated in October 1970. By the mid-1990s the Main Library, build to hold 2,600,000 volumes, had exceeded its capacity by more than a million volumes. To address this problem, the Trustees of IU approved the construction of an off-site shelving facility and state-of-the-art preservation lab that would conserve and protect the Libraries' collections for an estimated 400 years. Designed to hold 2.7 million volumes and to allow for same-day delivery service, the Ruth Lilly Auxiliary Library Facility (ALF) and E. Lingle Craig Preservation Laboratory opened in 2002. Currently, the Bloomington campus is the home to 26 branch libraries and is ranked 27th among member libraries of the Association of Research Libraries. The IU Bloomington Libraries have holdings of over more than 7.8 million books in over 900 languages. Since the university's founding in the early 1800s, the Indiana University Libraries have grown from one room in the first College Building to a state-wide system with more than 10 million volumes. Additional information may be available at: http://bl-libg-doghill.ads.iu.edu/gpd-web/iulibraryhistorysite/chron.php 
Clarence Joseph Bulleit (later Bulliet) was born on March 16, 1883. During World War I he changed the spelling of his last name to Bulliet to avoid any connection to Germany. He grew up in Corydon, Indiana, and went on to study at Indiana University. While at the University, he was a writer for the Daily Student and became editor in chief in 1904. He often wrote poems that were published in the paper. After graduating in 1904, he pursued a career in journalism in Indianapolis, Indiana. Eventually he became a press agent for Robert Mantell, who was the Head of the Shakespearean Touring Theater Company. This job involved touring the United States and Canada, which he did for a period of nine years. One year was spent as a regional "advance man," or publicist, which involved traveling ahead of the company to promote the silent film, The Birth of a Nation, released in 1915. He briefly returned to his career in journalism in Louisville, Kentucky, until relocating shortly after to Chicago, Illinois, to work as an editor of the Magazine of the Art World, a weekly journal published by the Chicago Evening Post (later The Chicago Daily News in 1932). Bulliet played a key role in popularizing modern art in the Midwestern United States and over the course of his career he published six books on the subject. Bulliet married his first wife, artist Katherine Adams, on October 22, 1905. They had one son named Leander Jackson. After Katherine's death in 1946, Bulliet remarried but died shortly thereafter, in 1952. 
Born September 25, 1917 in Vienna, Austria, Alfred "Freddy" Diamant escaped religious persecution in 1940 and settled in the United States. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, Diamant could not enlist, but was drafted by the United States military to fight for the cause of the Allies. After volunteering to speed up his service, he started basic training at Fort Knox, Kentucky and was later transferred to Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indianapolis, Indiana. He was selected for Officers Graduate School and served in Maryland. There, his commanders learned of his German speaking skills and he was trained as an interrogator of prisoners of war for three months. Before being sent to England in 1944, Diamant became an American citizen. On D-Day, June 6, 1944, Diamant served as part of the 82nd Airborne Division. His team was dropped eighteen miles off course. He was fortunate to survive, but was captured and taken as a prisoner of war. After attempting to escape, Diamant was shot in the back by his pursuers and survived a potentially fatal shot. He and the other prisoners were rescued in the following days. His wound was enough to send him home where he enrolled at Indiana University and pursued his interest in political science. He achieved two degrees in political science at Indiana University in 1947 and obtained his Ph.D. from Yale in 1957. He taught at the University of Florida (1950-1960), Haverford College (1960-1967), and finally, Indiana University, from which he retired in 1988. During his tenure at IU he served as the Chair of Political Science and the Chair of West European Studies. Over the course of his career, Diamant earned various prestigious awards, including the Guggenheim in 1973 and a Fulbright Senior Research Fellowship. He was described by his colleagues and students as a tenacious, courteous, and intellectual person who had a keen interest in both his students and colleagues. He married his wife Ann Redmon Diamant in 1943 and the couple had two children, Alice and Steve. He passed away on May 11, 2012. 
Born in 1913 in Dana (Vermillion County), Indiana, Marvin Carmack attended the University of Illinois and received an A.B. degree in Chemistry with honors in 1937. After completing both M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Organic Chemistry at the University of Michigan in 1940, where he studied carcinogenic hydrocarbons, Dr. Carmack became a research associate at the University of Illinois, working on the chemistry of Senicio and Crotolaria alkaloids. Professor Carmack began teaching at the University of Pennsylvania in 1941 as the Towne Instructor in Chemistry. He became Professor of Chemistry in 1951. During World War II, Dr. Carmack worked on contract with the National Defense Research Committee on high explosives and later on anti-malarial agents. Following the war, he began extensive studies in the field of organic sulfur chemistry. Awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1949, he spent the year in Zurich, Switzerland. He later held a Fulbright Fellowship at the Commonwealth and Industrial Research Office in Australia. In 1953, Dr. Carmack accepted a position at Indiana University as Professor of Chemistry. The offer of professorship arose after Carmack attended the First International Conference on Organic Sulfur Chemistry hosted by Indiana University. Impressed by the University's administration and after meeting with then-Chemistry Department chairman, Harry G. Day, Carmack decided to move back to his home state. He formally retired from Indiana University in 1978, although he continued to work and conduct research for several more years. Indeed, Dr. Carmack remained involved with the Indiana Association of Science, undertaking a research project in the early 1990s on George Hale, an Indiana scientist who helped to develop the explosive known as RDX. (George Hale's papers are also held by the IU Archives.) Dr. Carmack's major research contributions focused on natural products and organosulfur chemistry. In the former area, his internationally recognized research detailed the chemistry of alkaloids and proof of structure of the active principle of Lithospernum Ruderale, the agent of fertility control used by the American Indians. His studies of organosulfur chemistry elucidated the spectral properties of sulfur compounds and the mechanism of the Willgerodt reaction. In addition to academic work, Professor Carmack worked as a consultant to Abbott Laboratories, DuPont Company, and the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. He was also a member of Phi lambda upsilon, the National Chemistry Honor Society, and Sigma Xi, a scientific research society. Dr. Carmack died on July 6, 2010. 
The Grunwald Gallery of Art, formerly the School of Fine Arts (SoFA) Gallery presents contemporary works by both professional and student artists in a special exhibition format. The SoFA Gallery began in 1983 when the IU Art Museum moved to its new building and vacated over 5200 square feet of exhibit space. The first few years of the Gallery featured intermittent shows curated by faculty in studio and art history until 1987 when the University established a part-time gallery director position. In 2011, the SoFA Gallery was renamed the Grunwald Gallery of Art in honor of John A. Grunwald, thanks to a significant endowed gift from his widow, Rita Grunwald. John A. Grunwald (1935-2006) was born in Budapest, Hungary, to Jewish parents. He survived the Holocaust in Europe, and came to New York in 1950. Grunwald graduated with a degree in Economics from Indiana University in 1956, and met his wife Rita during that time. Both Mr. and Mrs. Grunwald were deeply interested in art, and frequently attended SoFA Gallery openings, exhibitions, and discussions. Rita Grunwald worked in the Fine Arts building for about 25 years, both in the Bookshop, and also as a Friend of the Art member. Today, the mission of the Grunwald Gallery is to present contemporary art by significant regional and nationally known artists, as well as by faculty and students within the school. Exhibits incorporate art from a variety of contemporary genres and approaches, and can be experimental or traditional. The Gallery is conceived as a visual arts laboratory with artists participating in the installation of their works and interaction with students and the public is encouraged. As the Grunwald Gallery frequently collaborates with artists, scientists and scholars, this results in the production of exhibits that interpret visual art in a broader scientific or humanities context. The temporary exhibit format provides the Gallery with flexibility to respond to opportunities and directions in the contemporary art world, allowing programming to evolve based on current trends and directions. The Gallery hosts over thirty exhibits annually of students from Indiana University's Henry Radford Hope School of Fine Arts, focusing on work by advanced undergraduate, BFA and MFA students. 
Faye Calvert Abrell was born on February 20, 1909 in Freedom, Owen County, Indiana to Foster and Amy V. Abrell. Faye attended Indiana University and graduated with a BS in Education in 1936 and a MS in Education in 1941. Following her time at IU, Abrell sought employment with the U.S. Army as a War Department civilian employee in the U.S. Forces European Theater. As a result, she spent 1946-1947 teaching in the Dependents School Service, established in 1946, in war-torn Frankfurt, Germany, and was involved in the Allied Forces mission of effecting a permanent peace. At the Dependents School, Abrell spent the year in the American occupied zone of Germany teaching American children who had moved overseas with their military families. During her periods of leave from teaching, Abrell travelled around Europe and during this time, visited Adolf Hitler's home (also known as "The Eagle's Nest) and attended some of the Nuremburg Trials. The photographs taken by Abrell document the resiliency of the German people to continue forward and rebuild after World War II. Abrell photographed numerous views of the bombed buildings and countryside she witnessed during her year abroad. Abrell described the apartment building she lived in during her time in Frankfurt as "half bombed away," and the city of Frankfurt itself over 65% destroyed. In one of the journals within this collection, Abrell comments that she later returned in 1967 just to see the city of Frankfurt rebuilt. Abrell was an elementary school teacher for Monroe County Schools until her retirement in 1975. She was actively involved in the community and in many organizations. Abrell died on March 8, 2003 at age 94. 
Doris Joan Richards Neff (often called Joan or Jo) was born July 12, 1927 to Eileen and Robert Richards. She lived by Winona Lake near Warsaw, Indiana, before coming to Indiana University in 1945. At Indiana University, she lived in Sycamore Hall, serving as Corridor Chairman her junior and senior years. She participated in the Archery Club, becoming social chair in 1947, and was a member of Pamarada her junior and senior years. She graduated in 1949 with a BS in Physical Education with High Distinction. After graduation she married Franklin Warner Neff, who graduated from Indiana University in 1949 with an AB in Government with Honors. They both taught in public schools after graduation. The Neffs eventually moved to Kansas City. Over the years, the couple has been active philanthropically with the Indiana University School of Education Alumni Association, the University of Missouri-Kansas City, and the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee, and also have an endowed scholarship in their name for doctoral students in Organization and Leadership at the Teachers College at Columbia University. 
The core collection of the original Chemistry Library was donated by Dr. Robert Edward Lyons around 1895. Most of those early works are still in the book collection with his book plates on them. From 1895-1931, the Chemistry Library was housed in a room in Wylie Hall. It was moved to the ground floor of the new Chemistry Building in the early 1930s. The library was extensively remodeled and enlarged around 1965, and the present quarters were occupied during the remodeling and expansion of the Chemistry Building in the early 1990s. The Chemistry Library has long been an early adopter of new information technology. It was the first unit on campus to have a photocopy machine and the first to have a CD-ROM player. An innovative current awareness service based on the Chemical Abstracts tapes was offered for a number of years during the 1970s, initially through ARAC (the Aerospace Research Applications Center), then through the Chemical Information Center (CIC). Housed in the library, the CIC was the first unit on campus, and indeed in the entire state of Indiana, to offer online searching of remote databases through the Dialog and Orbit systems. Miriam Bonham, wife of Emeritus Professor Russell A. Bonham, was the expert searcher who initially provided the service. A complete microfilming unit was part of the CIC operations for many years, providing compact archival storage for laboratory notebooks and Molecular Structure Center reports. In 1985, the Chemistry Library was one of the first in the world to offer the Chemical Abstracts Service Academic Program that permits low-cost searching of the CAS ONLINE files. For 10 years, this service was offered at no cost to the user. CAS ONLINE was replaced at IUB by SciFinder Scholar in the mid-1990s. Since July 2000, SciFinder Scholar has been available at all IU campuses 24 hours/day with full substructure searching. In combination with current subscriptions to all of the American Chemical Society journal Web editions and electronic versions of other chemistry journals (including backfiles of most of them), the SciFinder Scholar databases provide unparalleled access to the major primary and secondary sources in chemistry. Another resource that has been available to IU researchers at all campuses since its inception is the CrossFire system that includes both the Beilstein Handbook of Organic Chemistry and the Gmelin Handbook of Inorganic and Organometallic Chemistry. The Cambridge Structural Database is also provided by the Chemistry Library. The Chemistry Library remains open on Bloomington's campus and is located in the Chemistry Building. 
The Folklore Institute at Indiana University began as an eight-week program in the summer of 1942 under the directorship of Professor Stith Thompson. From June 29 to August 22 of that year residential and visiting faculty taught courses, which carried university credit, on a number of topics. Course topics ranged from an introductory course on folklore to field collecting and recording to the folk tale and similar forms. Others covered folk song and folk music as well as Native American folklore. The Folklore Institute grew into a stable research branch of Indiana University's College of Arts and Sciences in 1949 and received departmental status with an independent faculty in 1963; however, the Graduate School first listed M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Folklore for the academic year of 1949-1950 Since the academic year of 1971-1972 the Institute has offered an undergraduate degree in folklore as well. The Institute has also had a long history with research and teaching interests in ethnomusicology. In 2000 the Ethnomusicology Institute was created and merged with the Folklore Institute to become the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, which now offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in both fields. 
The Indiana University Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology jointly administers the Folklore Institute and Ethnomusicology Institute and offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in both fields. The Folklore Institute at Indiana University began as an eight-week program in the summer of 1942 under the directorship of Professor Stith Thompson. During the program, residential and visiting faculty taught courses on a number of topics, including field collecting and recording, the folk tale and similar forms, folk music and songs, and Native American folklore. The Folklore Institute grew into a stable research branch of Indiana University's College of Arts and Sciences in 1949 and received departmental status with an independent faculty in 1963. In 1977, the Folklore Institute was named an affiliated institute of the newly designated Department of Folklore. While ethnomusicology programming began at Indiana University as early as 1948, the field first gained official status at the university through the introduction of the Ethnomusicology Program under the Department of Folklore in 1982. In 2000, the Ethnomusicology Institute was established. That same year, the administrative structure governing folklore and ethnomusicology was reorganized, and the Department of Folklore officially became the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology, with the Folklore Institute and Ethnomusicology institute as units within the department. Since 2001, the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology has coordinated annual, ghost-themed campus tours known as "ghost walks." These tours take place during the Halloween season and feature legends tied to well-known campus and Bloomington spaces. Students, staff, and faculty from the department act as organizers, storytellers, and performers for the walks. Past faculty and staff participants include Ruth Aten, Linda Degh, and John Johnson. 
Margaret Albersmeyer Werling was born to Harold and Helene Albersymeyer in 1932 and graduated from New Haven High School in New Haven, Indiana in 1949. As an undergraduate at Indiana University she was involved in the Memorial and Morrison Women's Residence Hall Clubs, Future Teachers of America, the Association for Childhood Education, Alpha Xi Delta, and the Wesley Foundation. She graduated with a BS in Education in 1953 and an MS in Education in 1961. She married Melvin Werling on December 23, 1961 and worked as a teacher in Fort Wayne Community Schools. 
Born on September 27, 1897 in Indianapolis to Clara Louise (Schnabel) and Homer Dale Hopkins, Helen Dale Hopkins attended Shortridge High School and entered Indiana University as a freshman in the fall of 1915. She was an active member of the Classical Club, Browning Society, Pi Beta Phi, and was elected to the student honorary Phi Beta Kappa. She graduated with an A.B. in Latin with Distinction in 1918. Following graduation, she married Donald Wampler in 1928. She retired as a Latin teacher at Ben Davis High School in 1963. Helen Hopkins Wampler died at the age of 99 in Indianapolis on September 28, 1996. 
Folklore as a discipline arrived at Indiana University with the hiring of Stith Thompson in 1921. Thompson served as director of the freshman English program and taught the first course in folklore at IU, The Ballad, The Folktale, and The Romance, in 1922. In 1942, Thompson established the Folklore Institute of America, a quadrennial gathering of American folklore students and scholars. Folklore was an interdepartmental program in 1949 and students could earn M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in folklore beginning in the 1949-1950 academic year. At this time, many folklore courses were taught under the auspices of the English Department and the program was housed in one room in the old main library. Richard M. Dorson was hired as a professor of history and folklore in 1957 and served as the Chairman of the Committee on Folklore. Under his leadership, the program expanded significantly in quality and quantity. The quadrennial Folklore Institutes continued through 1970, but in 1963, under the dynamic leadership of Richard Dorson, Indiana University formally established a permanent Folklore Institute as an academic unit within the College of Arts and Sciences. During the 1971-72 academic year, IU began offering a bachelor's degree in folklore. Ethnomusicology was introduced to Indiana University in 1948 by George Herzog, who came to Bloomington from Columbia University. Herzog's first Ethnomusicology class was a two-semester Anthropology course, Folk and Primitive Music. In the 1950s when Herzog's health began to fail, George List, an Indiana PhD in Music (1954) took over many of his activities. List accepted a permanent appointment in Folklore in 1956. The Ethnomusicology Program was formally recognized as an interdepartmental program in the Folklore Department in 1980. In 1978, the Folklore Department was established and Richard Dorson served as the first Chairman and Director. The Folklore Institute was established as a separate unit from the Folklore Department in 1978. The Institute promotes research and publication projects. The Folklore Institute has a history of publishing prominent folklore journals. The Journal of the Folklore Institute (the Journal of Folklore Research as of 2002) includes articles of international scope and a prominent folklorist typically serves as editor. Indiana Folklore was a major regional journal from 1968-1980. Indiana Folklore and Oral History operated from 1980-1987 and was published in conjunction with the Oral History Research Center. The Special Projects unit of the Folklore Department was created in 1979 with the goal of obtaining external funding for publications, conferences, videos, research, and outreach activities. Between 1979 and 1992, Special Projects received $807,994 in external funding on 22 projects. In January 2000, the Folklore Department merged with the Ethnomusicology Institute to become the Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology. The Department carries out the teaching mission at the undergraduate and graduate levels, and the Special Projects unit promotes and organizes a variety of research and outreach activities. 
Herman B Wells served as president of Indiana University from 1937 through 1962 and Chancellor from 1962 through 2000. In 1964, Wells occupied the house on the corner of 10th Street and Jordan Avenue in Bloomington now known as the Herman B Wells House. While living in the house, Chancellor Wells often entertained guests of the university. The recipes in this collection were likely collected by Wells and Lorne Shields, Matilda "Tillie" Hopkins, and other cooks who worked at the house. 
The Indiana University Honors Program in Foreign Languages for High School Students (IUHPFL) is a foreign language study abroad program for high school students from Indiana. The IUHPFL combines academic study of a foreign language with living abroad in order to emphasize both language learning and cross-cultural knowledge. Students admitted into the program spend five to six weeks during the summer living with a host family and engaging with the local culture. As of 2018, the IUHPFL featured study of five languages: Chinese, French, German, Japanese, and Spanish. The program began operations in 1962, when David C. Munford, a former official of the Ford Foundation, approached Professor Merle Simmons of IU's Department of Spanish and Portuguese about establishing a study abroad program for high school students. Upon its foundation, the IUHPFL featured instruction in French, German, and Spanish, with sites in St. Brieuc, France; Trier, Germany; and Oaxaca, Mexico. In 2018, the St. Brieuc location was still active, with two more sites in France added in 1994 and 2010 in Brest and Saumur, respectively. The site in Mexico moved first to Monterrey, then to San Luis Potos, and then in 2010 to Mrida on the Yucatan Peninsula. The site for the German program moved from Trier to Krefeld, Germany, in 1964, where it remained until 2014. In 2015, the German program moved to Graz, Austria. In addition to the site in Mexico, the Spanish program also hosts sites in Spain. The first program site in Spain was established in the city of Valencia in 1996, with additional sites added in Ciudad Real, Len, and Oviedo in 1999, 2005, and 2007, respectively. The site in Valencia was discontinued in 2013. In 2014, the program established its first site in South America, in the city of Via del Mar, Chile. That same year, the IUHPFL also began a program in Chinese, setting up its first site in Asia, in the city of Hangzhou, China. In 2017, it began instruction in Japanese, with a location in Osaka, Japan. In summer of 2018, a program in Quebec City, Canada, will become operational, making it the fourth site in the French program. As of 2018, the IUHPFL operates twelve sites in eight countries. 
Traditional springtime "May Day" celebrations were organized at Indiana University as early as 1897, when IU Musical Director C. Norman Hassler presented the May Music Festival, a grand concert and oratorio in the Men's Gymnasium. The "Indiana University May Festival" began in 1905 under the auspices of the Indiana University Lecture Association. Modeled on the 1897 event, the festival featured orchestral and choral performances by German, American, and local musicians in the Men's Gymnasium. Starting in 1908, the Women's Athletic Association (WAA) and IU Department of Physical Education for Women co-organized the May Festival and highlighted exercises and dance programs at the Women's Gymnasium. By the 1920s, due to the growth and popularity of the event, the festival was moved to Dunn Meadow. The event included a "Dance Drama" program presented by singers and students from the Department of Physical Education's natural dancing classes. The Women's Student Government Association (WSGA) also sponsored the construction of a large May pole and the crowing of a May Queen. The WAA and Department of Physical Education for Women continued to organize an annual May Festival through at least 1928, although other organizations such as women's residence hall groups organized their own festivities in following years. 
Edna Hatfield Edmondson was a faculty member in the Indiana University Extension Division from 1919 through 1942. She was born Edna Elder Hatfield in Magnet, Perry County, Indiana on January 5, 1886. In 1907, she enrolled at Indiana University, where she earned a bachelor's degree in economics (1911), followed by a master's degree (1914) and PhD (1917) in sociology. On July 31, 1913, she married Clarence Edmund Edmondson (1883-1944), who taught human physiology and social hygiene at Indiana University from 1913-1944 and was Dean of Men from 1925-1944. Edmondson began her work in the Extension Division in 1919 as an instructor with a focus on child welfare work in Indiana. She became an assistant professor in Sociology in June 1921, at which rank she retired in July 1942. Both Edna and Clarence Edmondson accompanied the Indiana University baseball team on its April-May 1922 trip to Tokyo, Japan. Edmondson passed away in Los Angeles, California, on December 7, 1973. 
Daniel W. Biddle was born on October 24, 1870 in Gilboa, Benton County, Indiana to parents Jerome H. and Lydia J. Biddle. Daniel Biddle attended Indiana University from September 1893 through Spring 1895. Upon departing IU, Biddle tested and received a teaching license, going on to teach and later farm in Benton County. He married Janie Bartee (1874-1925), with whom he frequently corresponded while at IU, in 1897. The couple had two sons. Janie passed away in 1925, and Daniel remarried in 1929 to Gertrude Besse (1880-1982). In 1918, Biddle became secretary of the Remington Farmers Mutual Insurance Company, which his father founded. His subsequent career in insurance included serving as a charter member and director at several companies, including Indiana Farmers Mutual Insurance Company and Meridian Mutual Insurance Company. Biddle passed away on January 18, 1954. 
Sandra K. Dolby was born in 1946 and received a BA in English from Manchester College in 1969. After a period of teaching high school English, she received her master's degree (1973) and PhD (1975) from the Folklore and Ethnomusicology Department at Indiana University. As a doctoral student, she studied her family's folklore and how literary scholarship could help explain the genre of personal experience narratives, which led to her first book, Literary Folkloristics and the Personal Narrative (1989). After graduating, Dolby worked briefly in the English department at the University of Houston before returning to IU as an Assistant Professor in 1979. During her tenure at IU, she was Acting Director of American Studies from 1994 to 1995 and Director of the Folklore Institute from 2007 to 2008. She spent several years doing research internationally, receiving a fellowship from the National Libraries in Australia in 1985 and spending 2001 to 2002 as a Fulbright Roving Scholar of American Studies in Norway. In a service capacity, she was the Director of Undergraduate Studies in the Folklore and Ethnomusicology Department, taught folklore pedagogy, was on the advisory committee for the School of Teaching and Learning, and co-chaired the AI Committee as part of her work on the Bloomington Faculty Committee. After retiring from IU in 2010, she worked in the Department of English at the University of Houston. Throughout her academic career, Dr. Dolby also maintained a love of music: she sang, recorded, and composed folksongs, jazz, and choral works, and produced several albums. 
Charlie Nelms was born in 1946 in Crawfordsville, Arkansas. His family members were cotton subsistence farmers and rural community organizers, many of whom moved to Midwestern cities like Chicago and Flint during the post-war second great migration. Nelms earned his B.S. in chemistry and agronomy from University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff in 1968. He then attended Indiana University, where he earned his M.S. in higher education and student affairs in 1971 and his Ed.D. in higher education administration in 1977. After working in administration at Earlham College and University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, Nelms worked at Indiana University Northwest as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Assistant Professor of Education from 1978-1984. Following a period of employment as Vice President for Student Services at Sinclair Community College (Dayton, Ohio), Nelms returned to the IU regional system as Chancellor and Professor of Education at Indiana University East in 1987. He served in this role from 1987-1994. He left Indiana in 1994 to become Chancellor and Professor of Education at University of Michigan-Flint, a position he served until 1998. Nelms returned to Indiana in 1998 as a member of IU's executive leadership team. He served as Vice President for Institutional Development and Student Affairs and Professor of Higher Education Administration at IU (Bloomington campus) from 1998-2007. In total, Nelms served in higher administration for the Indiana University system for twenty-four years. In 2007 Nelms became Chancellor at North Carolina Central University (NCCU), a public historically black university. He retired from NCCU in 2012. Since then, Nelms has focused on research and consulting primarily for historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs). Since 2014 he has been a Senior Fellow for the Division of Academic Leadership & Change, American Association of State Colleges & Universities (AASCU) and Senior Consultant for AGB Consulting in Washington, D.C. In 2015 he established Nelms & Associates, a higher education consulting firm that specializes in strategic planning and communications, enrollment management, and diversity and inclusion. Nelms has written prolifically about education and race throughout his career. In 2011 he published A Call to Action: Strengthening America's Historically Black Colleges and Universities after participating in a series of symposiums on the topic at NCCU. He has been a columnist for the Huffington Post since 2012, where he blogs about family, leadership, higher education, and civil rights. His first memoir publication was Lessons Taught, Lessons Learned (Mansfield, Ohio: Bookmasters) in 2004. In 2019, Indiana University Press published Nelms' From Cotton Fields to University Leadership: All Eyes on Charlie, A Memoir. The book details his upbringing in the Deep South, his educational journey, and his experiences as a black administrator in predominantly white universities. Nelms has been granted honorary degrees from Earlham College (1993), University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff (2001), and Indiana University (2019). He has been awarded The President's Medal from the University of Michigan (1996), the Distinguished Alumni Service Award from Indiana University (1996), the City of Bloomington Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Legacy Award (2007), the U.S. Department of Education MLK Drum Major for Service Award (2012), and the Distinguished Leadership Award from the American Association of Blacks in Higher Education (2013), among other distinctions. 
The I-Men's Association was created in 1913 to honor male student athletes who earned varsity letters while competing for Indiana University. In 1982, an I-Women's Association was founded and in 2007, these two groups merged to create the I Association. Being an alumni organization, the I Association was a group within the IU Alumni Association until 2020, when it became part of the Department of Athletics. The I Association has held a variety of annual events for its members including I Association 25- and 50-year reunions, the Clevenger Award for individuals who have contributed outstanding services to the athletic program, golf outings, homecoming and tailgating festivities, and athletic activities for alumni living in Chicago and Indianapolis. 
Biographical / Historical
Initially known as The Bloomington Gay Liberation Front in 1970, the BGLF formed alongside many other similar organizations across the nation in the wake of the Stonewall uprising in 1969 and was at first intended as a radical political organization and protest group. The group quickly became more of a social organization and changed its name to the Bloomington Gay Alliance in 1971. With this name change, many women left the organization to organize separately. Over the next several years, talks continued with the desire to make the organization more representative of women as well as men. To this end, the group underwent structural changes such as adding a co-chair position so that it would be headed by one man and one woman at all times, and in 1981, changed its name again, to become The Bloomington Gay and Lesbian Alliance. This organization sponsored many protests and an annual "Gay Awareness" conference, established a telephone "rap line," called regular meetings, and coordinated a wide variety of subgroups including a speaker's bureau, legal groups, and advice and support groups among others. The group was active until at least 1981. 
Biographical / Historical
New Horizons was an independent community center founded in 1975 that intended to provide services for the increasingly open LGBTQ+ community in Bloomington. There were two known locations, first at 809 S. Rogers, and later at 118 W. 3rd, both in Bloomington, Indiana. These spaces were used for programming such as classes and fundraising events, and served as a general social space for community members to meet, with the later facility even holding a coffee shop and dance hall. The group was active until at least March 1976 and potentially longer. 
Biographical / Historical
Formed in 1980, Integrity/Bloomington was the local chapter of Integrity/International, a nationwide LGBTQ+ advocacy and support group affiliated with the Protestant Episcopal Church. Founded in 1974, the nationwide group sought to help gay Episcopalians gain full acceptance within the church. The local Bloomington chapter published an ongoing newsletter entitled Gabriel which included recent and upcoming events, activism, and other news of interest. The nationwide organization officially dissolved in 2022. 
Biographical / Historical
Lynn M. Jamieson (1946-) was born in Paterson, New Jersey. She spent her career working to promote and improve the work of park, recreation, and leisure. Jamieson particularly focused on youth and underserved population, as well as people with disabilities. The importance of this was personal to her, as she contracted polio at age 4 and had an active life as part of her rehabilitation. She had a significant family background in the field of sports and recreation. One of her grandfathers was a high school teacher. Her other grandfather, Walter Jamieson, was a park commissioner in Patterson and worked with his brother and Jamieson's great uncle, Charlie Jamieson, who played professional baseball, to establish a youth league baseball program.
Jamieson earned her bachelor's degree in health and physical Education from Muskingum University in the class of 1968. She then began her involvement with Indiana University, earning a master's degree in Physical Education in 1970.
In the years following her first master's degree, Jamieson worked a number of administrative roles in Parks and Recreations departments, in Corpus Christi, Texas; San Diego, California; and Johnson County, Kansas. During this time, she studied part time to earn a second master's degree in Recreation from Indiana University in 1976. She then went on to earn a Doctorated in Recreation from Indiana University in 1980, with a major in Recreation Administration and a minor in higher Education. Her doctoral dissertation was entitled "A Competency Analysis of Recreational Sports in Selected Institutional Settings." During her doctorate, Jamieson was an Associate Instructor in the Department of Recreation and Park Administration as well as working as an intern in the Indiana University Division of Recreational Sports.
Following her Re.D., Jamieson became a full-time member of the faculty of the Recreation Administration department at California Polytechnic State University, from 1980-1993. She primarily taught courses on commercial recreation and recreation administration. In 1985, she also became the Curriculum Coordinator of the Recreation Administration Program. Additionally, in 1986 Jamieson and her husband Stephen Wolter founded the consulting firm Leisure Visions, the name of which was changed to Visions in 1995. 
Jamieson joined the Indiana University Department of Recreation and Park Administration in 1993 as an Associate Professor. She taught undergraduate and graduate courses in research, sport management and administration. From 1994 until 1999, Jamieson served as the Assistant Chair for Academic Affairs within the department. In 2001 she was promoted to full professorship at Indiana University and became the Chair of the Department of Recreation, Park, and Tourism, serving as the first female chair in the history of the department. In her role as the chair, she also served as the Executive Director of the Bradford Woods, Hilltop Garden and Nature Center, as well as the National Center on Accessibility. She also oversaw the Eppley Institute for Parks and Public Lands. Her efforts within the department saw changes such as changing the name to Department of Recreation, Park and Tourism and nearly doubling the number of undergraduate students majoring in the department through marketing efforts. In 2008, Jamieson stepped down from her position as Chair but remained as a full Professor within the department. She served as the chair once again from 2015-2017, and retired with the title Professor Emeritus in 2018.
In addition to teaching, Jamieson conducted research on sport and violence, recreational sport competencies, recreation management, and international sport and leisure policy. The certification program of the National Intermural-Recreational Sports Association was based on her research on competencies in recreational sports. As part of her lengthy research on sport policy, she was a visiting scholar in China, Australia, England, Scotland, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, Turkey, Macau, South Africa, Taiwan, Tanzania, and Zanzibar as part of this research. She was a visiting faculty member at Beijing University of Physical Education in 1997 as well as at the University of Costa Rica in 2003.
Throughout her career, Jamieson was a member of a wide variety of professional organizations, published and presented prolifically, and was very involved in the Indiana University and Bloomington, IN communities. She contributed significantly to her field, and in 2020 was named a Legend within the American Academy for Park and Recreation Administration, which she became a member of in 2005.
Deposited by Prof. Oscar Osburn Winther, who was a member and one-time Secretary-Treasurer of the organization. 
Transferred from the Department of Religious Studies to the University Archives on 21 January 2003. 
Custodial History
Accession 9297 was transferred to Indiana University archives at an unknown date. Accessions 2021/144 and 2022/015 were purchased 2021-2022. 
Transferred to the Archives from the IU Lilly Library in 2000. The School of Letters annual bulletins were transferred from the IU Archives publications collection in April 2018. 
The bulk of the collection (accessions 5075-5085, 0428, 0196, 0281, and 0090) were transferred by the Indiana University Department of Biology to the University Archives in 1978, 1984 and unknown dates. Accession 93/008 was transferred by Charles W. Hagan in 1993. The biological reports by W. R. Breneman (Accn. 2010/096) were receieved with the papers of Marvin Carmack in 2010. 
Accession 96/024 donated by Margaret Campbell (Mrs. Joseph R. Ewers), Great-Grand Daughter of Elizabeth Dunn. 
Accession 2002/041 transferred by Teresa Spiegel, Bloomington Professional Council. Accessions 2000/027 and 99/053 transferred by Doris Burton, Political Science. 
Transferred from President Herbert's speech writer Susan Moke. 
Transferred from Mrs. Joseph C. Muhler to the University Archives October 1997. 
Deposited in the Archives by Mrs. Frenz, December 1984. Additions sent to the Archives in 2010 by Howard Swyers of the Dept. of Comparative Literature. 
Transferred from the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures to the University Archives, July 2001, October 2008, and August 1980. 
Transferred from Kelley Student Government to the University Archives, April 2010. 
Transferred from the Indiana University Jewish Studies Program to the University Archives, Aug. 2010. 
Transferred from the Staff Council to the University Archives in August 1993 and 28 November 1995. 
Gift of Natalie Christoph, 2010. 
Transferred from the Indiana University Folklore Department, 2003. 
Transferred to the University Archives in 1977. 
The bulk of the papers were gifted to the Archives by Dr. Engs in 1997, 2003, and 2007. 
Transferred to the University Archives in 1994. Deed of gift received in 1997. 
This collection was transferred to the University Archives from Government Information and Kent Cooper Services in March of 2011. 
This collection was transferred to the University Archives from librarian Lou Malcomb in March of 2011. 
Transferred from Foster Quad to the Archives in 2004. 
Accession 2005/076 transferred from Tehanee Ratwatte, Daniel Read Residence Manager, August 3, 2005; Accession 2005/097 (photographic negatives) transferred from Tehanee Ratwatte, September 6, 2005. Accession 2006/034 (Little 500 materials) transferred from Tehanee Ratwatte, May 4, 2006. 
Gift of Mary Jo Weaver, November 2010. 
Transferred to the Archives by the Writers' Conference in February 2007; Accession 2007/012. 
Transferred from Kelley School of Business in September 2005. 
Records were transferred to the IU Archives in October 2011. 
Some materials were donated by Clifford M. Blowers via Prof. Newell Long and Cecilia Wahl to the University Archives, Feb. 1984. The rest of the collection was transferred from Collection C413, the Cecilia Hennel Hendricks family papers. Dr. Hendricks served as vice president of the organization in 1907, and was a member of the Anniversary Publication Committee, which published a book on the history of the Indiana Club in 1915. Her sister, Cora, served as treasurer in 1905, secretary in 1906, and as the alumni secretary. 
Transfer from the Association. 
Dr. List's memoir given to the Archives by him in 2005; remainder of papers transferred after his death in 2008. 
Collection came from the offices of John B. Patton, who served as the committee chair from 1974-1978 and Donald F. Carmony who served as the first chair until 1971. 
Gift of alumnus Dr.Thomas R. Palfrey, 1962. Palfrey's wife, Josephine Stengel, was Secretary of the organization 1920-1921. 
Transferred from the IU Music Library in 2012. 
Transferred from the Kelley School of Business, February 2013. 
Transferred from the IU Music Library 2012. 
Transferred from June Fry to the University Archives, October 21, 1998. 
Transferred from James Madison to the University Archives, June 2011 and August 2012. 
Transferred from the IU School of Music Library to the University Archives, November 2012. 
This collection was transferred to the University Archives from Edna Pressler (daughter) in 2013 and William Brown of the Indiana University Music Library in 2014. 
Transferred from Lilly Library to the University Archives, July 2, 1997 and September 12, 1997. 
This collection was transferred to the University Archives from Betty Davis in October 2008. Additional materials were transferred to the University Archives from Diane Bevers in October 2012. 
Donated to the Archives in 2014 by grandson Richard Bulliet. 
Given to the University Archives by Alice Diamant, Alfred Diamant's daughter, in 2013 and 2014. 
Transferred to the IU Archives in February 2015 by Grunwald Gallery Director, Betsy Stirratt. 
Transferred in October 2008. 
Donated by D. Joan Neff, July 1, 2004. 
Transferred to the IU Archives in 2003 by John McDowell, Chair of Folklore Department. 
Records were transferred to the IU Archives in 2011 by John McDowell, Chair of the Folklore department. 
Transferred by Margaret (Albersmeyer) Werling in 2013. 
This collection was discovered curbside in Lafayette, Indiana by Marvin Hanson and his wife. The couple contacted the IU Archives and transferred the collection in early 2016. 
Transferred from the IU Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology in 2003, 2007, and 2016. 
The contents of this collection were found in two recipe boxes in the former residence of Herman B Wells at 1321 East 10th Street, Bloomington, Indiana. They were transferred to the Indiana University Archives by Dixie Mobley in January 2016. 
Transferred from the IUHPFL to the University Archives, November 2017. 
This collection was assembled by Indiana University Archives staff. The immediate sources of the collection materials was not documented, but it is likely they were separated from other collections already held by the IU Archives. 
Transferred to the University Archives at an unknown date. 
Donated to the University Archives by Janie K. Whaley, granddaughter of Daniel W. Biddle, in June 2018. 
Collection was donated by Sandra Dolby in 2012 and 2015. 
Transferred by Charlie Nelms to the University Archives, 2018. 
Custodial History
This collection was transferred from the IU Alumni Association - I Association to the University Archives, March 2014. 
Custodial History
Gift of Lynn Jamieson, 2017-2022
The IU society met monthly during the school year. At the meetings, they discussed developments in social science scholarship and had featured speakers on a social science topic. Speakers were sometimes IU faculty members, other times campus visitors. By the mid-1930s, meetings were more infrequent, and the minute book reports "No regular meetings were held during 1936-37 or 1937-38. Special meetings were held on call of the President to consider special emergency problems pertaining to the field of the Social Sciences." At their October 3, 1939 meeting, then-President Moffatt moved that meetings be held only upon call of the officers. This is the last entry in the minute book, although there are a few loose minutes dating from the 1939-1940 school year as well as a few items in the collection from later years, including a 1950 meeting announcement. However, due to a lack of minutes, the main activities of the society are not known after 1942.
The Correspondence series is arranged in chronological order and spans 1925-1942, but the bulk of the correspondence dates from 1925-1928. In the correspondence, there is quite a bit of discussion about the establishment of the group at Indiana University. The correspondence is not only between the members of the Indiana chapter but also between members of the national organization and chapters at other universities throughout the country.
The Administrative files series spans 1924-1950 and includes membership lists for both IU and other chapters throughout the state, reports, meeting announcements, constitutions, and financial records. The financial records primarily consist of notices and payments of dues and receipts for various expenditures. There is one item in the meeting announcements folder that dates to 1950, the only item in the collection dated that late.
The final series, Minutes, 1924-1940, includes 2 folders. The first folder holds a bound minute book that begins with the group's first meeting on December 10, 1924. The last entry in the book is from October 3, 1939. The loose minutes consist of some draft minutes, minutes of the national organization's December 31, 1924 meeting, and some loose minutes that had been tucked into the minute book.
Additional information about the group can be found in Herman B Wells' presidential files.
These files were generated by various IU participants, but seem to be primarily those of the President's office. An inventory was made in 1994, and duplicate printed material was discarded, but no attempt was made to reorganize the material within the folders. During processing, working papers were unified, financial records combined, correspondence related to planning and organization was separated from invitations and correspondence with guests, and the records arranged in chronological order. The records are organized into one series, Administrative files. Each conference represents a sub-series. Within each sub-series, folders contain working papers, organizational correspondence, invitations and related correspondence, programs and packets, requisitions and vouchers, and publicity and news clippings, all in chronological order.
The John Lunstrum papers span the time period of 1959-1965 during which Dr. Lunstrum was both the coordinator for Social Studies in the College of Arts and Sciences and an Associate Professor of Education at Indiana University Bloomington. The collection is organized into six series: Correspondence, Clippings, Councils and committees, Proposals, Programs, and Syllabi. Three sub-series exist within the series of Councils and committees: State, National, and Indiana University.
The majority of Lunstrum's correspondence is arranged alphabetically by subject. However, four general correspondence files exist within the series and are alphabetized by either author or recipient. The arrangement in this series reflects the original organization of Dr. Lunstrum's correspondence. This series consists of correspondence between Dr. Lunstrum and his professional colleagues at Indiana University, with colleagues in the community and within national organizations, and with individuals he met through his professional endeavors. No distinction has been made between personal and professional correspondence; this is in accordance with Lunstrum's original filing system.
The Clippings series consists of one file and contains an editorial written by Hugh S. Ramsey in response to changes in the Indiana high school social studies curriculum. The file also contains a response to Mr. Ramsey written by graduate students of Dr. Lunstrum.
The Councils and committees series is arranged alphabetically and is comprised of records about Dr. Lunstrum's membership in and leadership of various councils and committees on a state, national, and university level. These three levels reflect the sub-series: State, National, and Indiana University. Within each sub-series, individual files exist for each council and committee and are arranged alphabetically.
The State sub-series consist of files for each organization Dr. Lunstrum was involved with in Bloomington, Indiana, and throughout the state. Files exist for the Bloomington Citizenship Council and the I.C.S.S. (Indiana Council for the Social Studies) newsletter. Dr. Lunstrum was a proponent for change in the social studies curriculum, and this is reflected by his activity in both of these organizations. These files are arranged alphabetically.
The National sub-series consist of files about the National Council for the Social Studies. Lunstrum was the chairman of the NCSS audio-visual committee from 1961-1962. The purpose of this committee was to study the use of educational and instructional television in the social studies curriculum. These files are arranged alphabetically.
The Indiana University sub-series consist of files regarding campus organizations and committees in which Lunstrum was involved. The university became involved with the Asia Society when Lunstrum spearheaded the summer institutes on Asia and the Soviet Union with support from the organization. These institutes focused on the importance of non-western cultures, specifically Asia and Russia. These files are arranged alphabetically.
The Proposals series consists of proposals made at the university level and are arranged alphabetically. Included are the Langan-Gehrels proposal so named for the professors who penned it, it required incoming students to pass certain standards in language and mathematics upon entering the College of Arts and Sciences. This proposal failed to pass. The Anthropology Institute proposal details the development of a summer institute for Junior and Senior high school teachers in the subject areas of biology and social studies in anthropology. Lunstrum was actively involved in facilitating and coordinating both of these proposals.
The Programs series consists of files regarding both university and non-university programs and are arranged alphabetically. Files exist for High School Day and the All-Campus Party. These were university programs that Dr. Lunstrum advised. Files exist for non-university programs such as the John Hay Fellows Program. Dr. Lunstrum was heavily influenced by this program in designing the Asia Summer Institute at Indiana University.
The series Syllabi consists of one file that contains a syllabus for a course on the History of the Federation of Malaya. The uses of this syllabus are unknown.
The Indiana Religious Studies Project records date between 1976 and 1997 with the bulk of the records dating between 1978 and 1985. The records are organized into five series: Newsletters; Participants; Sample lesson plans; Subject files; and Cassette tapes.
The Newsletter series contains the newsletters that were published from Spring 1981 to Spring 1985. In all cases except 1985 (when the project ended), the newsletter was published biannually  once in the Spring and once in the Fall. Each newsletter contains general information about the project, the current expectations and goals of the project, and discusses several current resources for teachers of religious studies. The newsletters are approximately four pages in length and have been arranged chronologically.
The Participants series, 1977-1981, contains applications, course projects, evaluations, and some pre- and post-project correspondence between the organizers of the program and the participant. It appears that the participants produced the course projects as part of their course workload. While the projects vary in length, most projects are lesson plans designed for classroom use and contain assignments, lecture information, handouts, exams, and photocopies of secondary texts (used to verify the information and/or serve as student readings). The evaluations that, in most cases, follow the course projects were written by ISRP instructors and provide commentary and positive and negative feedback regarding the participant's work. The series has been arranged alphabetically by the participant's surname, and files include application and pre-project correspondence, participant's course projects, evaluations, and post-project correspondence. In the application materials, social security numbers have been blacked out by the processor.
The Sample lesson plans, 1978-1985, appear to be revised versions of selected participant's original projects. In similar format to the participant's projects, the sample lesson plans contain classroom assignments, lecture information, handouts, exams, and photocopies of secondary texts. The original sample lesson plans are in layout form with articles, assignments, handouts, etc. having been cut apart and taped to pages in preparation for photocopying. In several instances, the photocopied version accompanies the original sample lesson plan. Folders in this series have been arranged per the original order; consequently for some years some participants have their own folders, while for other years no distinction is made between participants. The folders in this series have been arranged alphabetically, and materials within the folders are arranged chronologically.
The Subject files series, 1976-1997, contains a wide variety of information about the project, its origins, and its yearly activities. Of particular interest to understanding the development of the ISRP may be the cover letter and description (undated), along with the final reports (1978, 1985), and the grant proposals (1978, undated), that provide detailed descriptions about the purpose and progress of the project. These reports and descriptions were written by the acting director of the ISRP. Several files provide lists of participants and their contact information (participant data, participant lists, description and participant profile), while other files offer general information about the class schedules and course work of the secondary teachers during the project (curriculum unites, schedule of classes, and syllabus by track). Although the ISRP ended in 1985, the Indiana University's religious department continued to receive requests for sample lesson plans; these letters account for the majority of the general correspondence following 1985. The Subject files series have been arranged alphabetically by subject and chronologically within the folders.
It is unclear if the cassette tapes, 1978-1980, resulted from lectures by instructors during the project or were recorded elsewhere and used as teaching aids by the ISRP. The labels on each cassette have been recorded on the finding aid. The cassettes were in no discernable original order and are currently in no established order in box 4, though they are listed chronologically.
The Inter-Institutional Study Committee's records range from 1941-1961 with the bulk of the material being dated 1949-1952. It is arranged into four series: Administrative files; Four State Schools Study Data; Four State Schools Physical Plant Study; and Bound reports.
The first series is Administrative files. It consists of correspondence, minutes, reports, and a few records of a sub-committee created to study the capitol needs of the institutions. The bulk of the correspondence is either to or from Joseph A. Franklin, but it also includes a number of letters between President Herman B Wells of Indiana University and President Frederick L. Hovde of Purdue University. The reports provide details about the individual goals of the committee and document the final budget formula. It spans the years 1941-1961.
The second series, Four State Schools Study Data, ranges from 1949-1953. This series contains budgetary information, studies done by the committee, forms, and miscellaneous material from three of the institutions. The bulk of the data pertains to Indiana University and Purdue University.
The Four State Schools Physical Plant Study is the next series. It is mostly comprised of the forms that the committee used in this study but also includes instructions to the institutions on how to fill out these forms correctly. The forms have been placed into separate files except for forms 4 and 6. These are kept together since they appeared that way in the original collection and seem to compliment each other. The collection originally contained ten or so blank copies of each form, but all but one of these copies were discarded. Materials in this series are mostly undated. Those dated range from 1951-1952.
The last series is Bound reports. It consists of five bound reports made by the committee in 1952, as well as a letter from Briscoe to Franklin. The letter is accompanied by a report which, consequently, seems to be a later draft of the preliminary report made by the committee. These bound reports are summaries of the committee's achievement. The reports cover each institution separately and then together showing the school's budgets for 1952 collectively and by department.
Charles Hyneman donated seven cubic feet containing his correspondence to the University Archives in 1982. After his death in January, 1985, another seven cubic feet comprising material of various kinds arrived at the archives. The collection relates to Hyneman's work as a member of the Indiana University faculty, and also contains material reflecting Hyneman's work at other universities and with the federal government before his arrival in Bloomington. The collection comprises ten cubic feet of records and dates from the 1920's to his death in 1985 and the posthumous publication of his final book in 1994, with the great majority of material covering the years after 1942.
Prominent types of materials in the collection include: correspondence, draft manuscripts, typed lectures, memoranda, reports, clippings, three reel-to-reel tapes and a gradebook.
Biographical Materials: This series includes 17 folders and three reel-to-reel tapes, arranged topically. Materials encompass the years 1937- 84, including transcripts of oral interviews (3 folders, 1976-79), contracts from universities (4 folders, 1937-62), Indiana University Annual Reports (1956-71), and other folders relating to a bibliography of his writings, a proposed endowment in his name, and others of a lighter nature.
Publications, Manuscripts and Research Notes: There are 51 folders in this series, chronologically arranged from his 1930's research notes to his handwritten musings on the sanctity of life. In addition to several articles are draft manuscripts of longer-term research products. Among these are manuscripts relating to the unpublished Government and Politics in the United States (6 folders), the unpublished book with Hubert H. Humphrey (23 folders), and drafts of what was published posthumously as The American Founding Experience (7 folders).
Public Lectures and Teaching Materials: The 36 folders and gradebook in this series date from 1935 to 1980, documenting a lifetime of talks given at conferences and universities across the country. The subjects of the talks range from the theory and practice of democratic government to the politics of race and protest to the concepts of the Founding Fathers. These have been filed chronologically, along with the materials relating to teaching (Teaching--Handouts and Notes-- 1935-69, Hyneman Circulars Regarding the Teaching of Political Science--1952-54, and the Gradebook, 1947-55.) Also related to teaching is the unpublished Government and Politics in the United States in Series 2, which grew out of his teaching at Northwestern University. There are no regular class lectures.
Government War Work: This series documents Dr. Hyneman's work in three government positions during the American years in World War II. Included within these 14 folders dating from 1942 to 1949 are materials from the Bureau of the Budget (2 folders), the Training Branch of the War Department (2 folders), and his work with the Federal Communications Commission (9 folders).
General Correspondence: The 201 folders included here were carefully kept by Dr. Hyneman, and comprise over half of the collection. Personal and professional correspondence is largely indistinguishable here, as the professor's professional colleagues and former students were frequently his closest friends. Material here are filed alphabetically, with organizations interfiled with individual names. More information regarding his publications may be found here, with critical correspondence of his work filed under the name of the press or under a book title. Correspondents include: William F. Buckley, Jr., Hubert H. Humphrey, Sander Vanocur, and Herman Wells.
The Central Scholarship Committee records, 1939-1940, consist of one series, the administrative files of its chairman, Herman T. Briscoe, arranged alphabetically by subject. Briscoe served in this capacity as it related to his interest in and duties with the Student Guidance Office. The records reflect policy and decision-making communications with members of his own committee as well as that with legal counsel and members of similar student aid committees at the University. There are several letters to Briscoe from students and parents inquiring about Indiana University scholarships and loans. Also present are some analytical studies and a few lists of recipients of and candidates for student aid.
The collection consists of subject files arranged alphabetically and spans the years 1940-1946. It is comprised primarily of the files of the Office of Military Information Director Frank E. Horack. Professor Horack acted in this capacity on two separate occasions: June 1942-August 1943 and July 1944-1947. In the interim Professor Horack served as Coordinator, War Service Programs, from 1943 to 1945 and these materials are also in the collection. Also present are the papers of Harold F. Lusk, who acted as Director of the Office of Military Information from September 1943 to June 1944.
The files contain: correspondence with military and university personnel; directives from Washington, D.C. and regional military offices; and information on housing, courses, and instructors. A significant correspondent with the Office of Military Information was Herman T. Briscoe in his role as consultant to the Division of Professional and Technical Training, War Manpower Commission, Washington, D.C.
Included in the collection are three folders containing confidential information regarding students enrolled in the various programs. These are at the end of box 2 and are closed to researchers.
The papers of Charlotte Lowe Bryan are organized into four series: American Association of University Women, 1932-1933; Addresses and presentation, 1929-1937; Correspondence, 1873-1937; and Publications, 1933-1937.
The American Association of University Women series is small, consisting of only one folder. It is made up of Loan fund reports of the organization.
The Addresses and presentations series includes copies of speeches and presentations both given by and for Bryan, many of them containing Bryan's handwritten notes. The folders are arranged alphabetically.
Arranged alphabetically, the Correspondence series is by far the largest series, containing correspondence both to and from Bryan spanning 1873 to 1948. Additionally, the Lowe family folder contains notes about the Lowe family, including genealogical information. The correspondence from Lora Webster, Janet Ramsay Sims, Elizabeth Pennington, "Nettie", Alice Moore, Mrs. Carl Franzeu and H. E. Cowan are voluminous.
The journal kept by "Lotta" is from 1879, and it is complete and detailed.
In the Publications series, typescripts and galley sheets of articles written by Bryan can be found. Many of them contain handwritten corrections and notes by Bryan. The folders are arranged alphabetically.
This collection is divided into three series: Correspondence, 1880-1941 and undated; Ephemera, 1880-1951 and undated; and Research, 1880 and undated. The Correspondence series consists mainly of letters exchanged between Rosa Smith Eigenmann and her family. Common correspondents include Carl H. Eigenmann (Rosa's husband), Adele Eigenmann (Rosa's second-youngest child), Mary Smith Berry (Rosa's sister), and Lucretia Smith (Rosa's mother). The series also features correspondence of David Starr Jordan to Rosa Smith Eigenmann about professional and personal interests. The Ephemera series contains items collected by Rosa Smith Eigenmann and her family, including an invitation to the IU Commencement in 1886. The Research series contains three texts written by Rosa Smith Eigenmann.
This collection consists of the manuscript, What Tree is That? written by Henry Thew Stephenson. It is organized in a single series, Publications, and then is further organized into two subseries, Part One and Part Two. Part One is arranged by chapter number and consists of information on general aspects of trees. Part Two is arranged alphabetically and includes detailed information of specific species of trees. All of the materials date to 1922.
The folder containing chapter 2, Trees in Winter, also contains a published version of that chapter as printed in American Forestry v.28, no. 338, February 1922.
This collection consists of speeches given by Thomas Ehrlich during his tenure as the President of Indiana University, dating August 1987 to June 1994.
The Herrick B. Young papers comprise 2.8 cubic feet and span the period from 1925 to 1984. The collection is organized into three series: Subject files, Correspondence, and Writings.
The first series is entitled Subject files. This series consists of twenty-one folders arranged alphabetically and spanning the years 1925-1982. Of special interest are Young's memoirs of trips to Africa (1945 and 1958), Iran and the Middle East (1925-1933), and Latin America (1936-1939), and a scrapbook of clippings and other publications compiled by Young from the 1920s to the 1980s.
Correspondence is the second series. This series consists of fifty-one folders arranged chronologically and spanning the years 1925-1984. The majority of the papers in this series consist of letters from Young to his family and friends written during his extensive travels. The letters from 1933 include a letter mentioning Teddy Roosevelt's visit to Teheran and how Young was able to meet him at a legation tea.
The final series in the collection is entitled Writings. This series consists of thirty-six files arranged chronologically and spanning the years from 1927-1975. In addition to his books, articles and reviews, the collection contains addresses, lectures, and notes compiled for his publications as well as a biographical essay written by John T. Fares about the life of Herrick B. Young. Included in the collection is his book Strange Lands and Wonderful People. Prominent subjects in Young's writings include religion, Middle Eastern culture, and education.
Series: Ernest H. Lindley 1892-1940.
Subseries: Correspondence 1917-1940, is by no means all of Dr. Lindley's correspondence. This collection only offers a few letters regarding his professional career, but his personal correspondence offers an abundance of letters from Dr. and Mrs. William Lowe Bryan (1917-1939), from the Carnegie Foundation (1934- 1939) and William T. Foster(1920-1939).
Subseries: Writings, 1893-1939. This subseries is further separated into four subseries: Academic Career, Publications, Speeches, and Notes.
Subseries: Academic Career, 1893-1925, offers a sampling of Lindley's undergraduate work including his thesis, doctoral dissertation and some of his post doctoral research.
Subseries: Academic Publications 1897-1938, is not an exhaustive list, most of these publications were produced during his time at the University of Kansas 1920-1939; however, there are some publications during his time at Indiana University and Iowa.
Subseries: Speeches, 1899-1939, contains some of his speeches and presentations given throughout his career. Also included are some unidentified or incomplete speeches.
Subseries: Notes, 1894, n.d., contains notes taken during a lecture given by Dr. W. L. Bryan as well as personal notes and two personal notebooks.
Subseries: Biographical, 1890-1941, includes biographical information about Dr. Lindley and is organized in three subseries: General, Trip to China, and Death of E.H. Lindley.
Subseries: General, 1890-1941, n.d., primarily consists of newspaper articles from his professional career at IU, the universities of Idaho and Kansas, and some biographical information.
Subseries: China trip, 1939-40, includes mostly souvenirs and pamphlets of places he and his wife visited.
Subseries: Death of E.H. Lindley, 1940-41, n.d., mainly consists of memoriams and newspaper clippings concerning his death.
Series: Mrs. Elisabeth Kidder Lindley 1892-1944.
Subseries: Correspondence 1920-1941, includes subseries of Mother's Death, 1920 and Death of Dr. Lindley, 1940-41, n.d. Prominent correspondents include: Mrs. Charlotte Lowe Bryan, Alice and Frank Dains, Harrison C. Dale, Lucy Calhoun, Charles and Anna Jenkins, Walter and Eleanor Jessup, Raymond Nichols, D. M. Swarthout and Herman B Wells.
Subseries: Biographical 1892-1944, includes a letter of reference, and newspaper clippings and other materials concerning her death.
Series: Correspondence of Ernest K. Lindley 1941-56, includes some correspondence that he received after the death of his father in 1940, but most of it is after the death of his mother 1944. Prominent correspondents include Dr. and Mrs. William Lowe Bryan and Herman B Wells.
The Records of the Carnegie Seminar are divided into two series. The Correspondence series is arranged alphabetically and contains both incoming and outgoing correspondence. The outgoing correspondence is primarily that of the Seminar director. Materials in this series date from 1959 to 1973.
The Subject series is also arranged alphabetically. It includes the Seminar's annual reports from 1962 to 1965. Files relating to the Seminar's meetings and the political and administrative development program are also contained in this series. Span dates for this series from 1962 to 1967, with the bulk of the material falling between 1962 and 1965.
The papers of Kate Hevner Mueller comprise 12 cubic feet and cover a span of time from her young childhood until just a few years before her death in 1984. Kate Mueller was very meticulous, she kept virtually all her correspondence and research notes, much of which is annotated to explain its importance and relevance. Most of the collection is from the 1950s and 1960s, but a great deal also exists from her childhood and college days. The papers are organized into the following series:
Biographical and Personal Material: This series is subdivided into three subseries: Clippings- Newspaper and Magazine Clippings about KHM; Childhood and Student Papers, Stories, Report Cards, and Yearbooks- Stories and poems written by KHM as a child, report cards from grade school through college, class notes from high school and college, high school and college yearbooks, which feature school pictures and articles written by KHM; General Biographical and Personal Files- Awards, financial documents, biographies, reviews of her books, her wedding announcement, contracts, college commencement announcements, resume, etc.
Memoirs and Journals: Kate Mueller began writing her memoirs, both of her private life and her professional life. Some errors exist in the manuscripts, however. Some of the dates are off by five years, and some of the order of things is a bit skewed. The journals date mainly from KHM's early teenage years through college and a brief diary (mainly of appointments and activities) from 1981.
Correspondence: Easily the largest series. Most of the letters are from the 1950s-1960s, but is fairly weighty for the other years as well. This series is separated into three categories: Correspondence with John Mueller- When they met, he lived in Oregon and she lived in Minnesota, so letters passed between them daily for a few years before they were married in 1935. Subject- These are letters which were better classified by subject rather than by correspondent because many times KHM only wrote to an individual once or at most a couple of times, or she wrote to many people about the same thing. General- This is organized in alphabetical order with the correspondent. For the most part, these people carried on a significant correspondence with KHM or it lasted over many years. Explanatory details are included on the folder and below to further identify the correspondents and the contents.
Research Notes: This is split into two subseries: Twenty-Seven Major American Symphony Orchestras: a history and analysis of their repertoires, seasons 1842-1843 through 1969-1970 - this is the book that Kate Mueller finished in 1973. Her notes for the book are numerous enough to warrant this separate subseries. The folders do not really have a consistent or adequate labeling system, but rather than take the chance on misrepresenting the contents, the original names have been retained, but have been organized into headings such as CHARTS and NATIONALITIES below to give some organization to the multiplicity of naming methods. General Research Notes- These are all her other notes which do not pertain to the book or to class work. These folders are organized alphabetically by subject.
Teaching/Class notes: Kate Hevner Mueller kept a great deal of her class materials. They are organized into these subseries: Subject- These are notes taken or collected by KHM for use in her classes. Classes- This subseries is organized by the names/numbers of the individual classes that KHM taught and contains the materials she used for that particular class, including syllabi, assignments, and final examinations. Student Work- These folders contain work submitted by students of KHM, some dated, some undated.
Professional Organizations: Kate Mueller was involved with many organizations and because of her expertise in many disciplines, she was used professionally a great deal. The material found in this series has to do with her professional activities both within groups and as an individual scholar.
Writings: This is subcategorized into the following subseries: Speeches/Radio Addresses- typescripts of speeches, outlines, and transcripts for public speaking. Reviews- Kate Mueller reviewed many books and articles in both Psychology and Guidance and Counselling. Also included are reviews about works written by Mueller. Published Works- These are articles, monographs, and drafts for books. Included are both edited drafts and final copies, in addition to the publication themselves in some cases. Other writings and books- This contains unidentified writings by KHM, or otherwise unclassified drafts. Also contained here are the editions of books she either wrote or contributed to in some way. Not all the books she wrote are included here.
Miscellaneous materials: These materials were added to the collection after it had been processed and can all be found in Box 12. It primarily consists of record albums used in Kate and John's research. Also included are microfilm of sheet music and data taken during their research.
This collection consists of one cubic foot of records created and/or saved by Malcolm Webb during his tenure as Assistant Director of the Office of State Relations. It is organized in a single series, Subject files, and is arranged alphabetically. Within the folders researchers can find correspondence, faxes, memos, and reports sent and created on the particular subject. The most prominent subject of the collection, consisting of 11 folders, deals with the early development of the Theatre/Neal-Marshall Center.
This collection consists of incoming correspondence from former and prospective Indiana University students. Many are inquiries about entrance or transfers and requests for transcripts or catalogs. The collection is clearly not complete, as it ends with the "M" correspondents. The fate of the remainder of the correspondence is not known, although it is likely that the later correspondence was interfiled with the President's files.
Donald Carmony donated his papers to the University Archives in 1983 and 1984. The collection relates to Carmony's work as a member of the Indiana University faculty and to his activities as a member of University and community committees. The collection comprises 7.6 cubic feet and dates from 1949 to 1984, with the bulk of the material falling between 1955 and 1980. Prominent types of materials in the collection include correspondence, reports, memoranda, and clippings.
The first series, General correspondence, is arranged alphabetically by surname. Materials date from 1949 to 1984 with the bulk of the correspondence falling between 1955 and 1980. Correspondents in the general correspondence files include faculty members at Indiana University, especially within the history department, faculty at the extension centers, deans of the university, university presidents Herman B Wells and John Ryan, scholars such as Robert M. Utley, staff at historical societies, citizens of Indiana, publishers, former students, and elementary school students. There is little correspondence with family members. Correspondence relating to committees and outside organizations can be found in IU Committee, and Outside organizations series.
Indiana University is the second series and spans the years from 1955 to 1983. It is further organized into four subseries: History Department, History Department Committees, IU Committees, and IU Subject Files, with each subseries arranged alphabetically. The History Department subseries includes departmental meeting minutes, various undergraduate and graduate student program materials, and faculty annual and summary reports. History Department Committees includes Advisory Committee materials, and Executive Committee and Policy Committee meeting minutes. IU Committees contains materials concerning the American Revolution Bicentennial, Historic Preservation, Heritage, IU Sesquicentennial, and Professional Status of Librarians c ommittees. Finally, IU Subject Files includes materials on the Buley memorial, the Dow Chemical student protest in the fall of 1967, and Carmony's retirement in 1980.
The third series, Outside organizations, consists of materials from organizations not connected with Indiana University. It is arranged into ten subseries: Adult Education Association; American Association of State and Local History; Bloomington Bicentennial Commission; Commission on Higher Education; Hoosier History Committee; Indiana History Panel / Indiana Higher Education Telecommunication System; National Conference of Christians and Jews; NDEA; New Harmony Commission; and State Social Studies Curriculum Revision Committee. Outside organizations series is arranged alphabetically by organization name and dates ranging from 1956 to 1981. The subseries are also arranged alphabetically.
The fourth series is Great Books. It is arranged into four subseries: Clinics; Alphabetical files; City files; and Leader files, and consists of materials from the 1940s to 1973. The subseries and their arrangement are derived from the original order; Clinics is arranged chronologically, while the other three are arranged alphabetically. Clinics consists primarily of correspondence and bulletins regarding the yearly training clinics for group leaders held by the Indiana Great Books program. Alphabetical files include correspondence and subject files while City files contains annual reports from Great Books groups in Indiana; it is arranged by city name. Finally, Leader files consists of materials Carmony used to lead Great Books meetings on select works and is arranged by the author's last name. Although Great Books could logically be part of Outside organizations, its size and depth require it to be its own series.
Subject files make up the last series; it spans the years from 1953 to 1983 and is also arranged alphabetically. It consists of awards and newspaper clippings about Carmony, history bibliographies, materials on the Hershey Library and river trails in Southern Indiana, and Hubert Humphrey campaign materials from Carmony's involvement in the campaign.
The papers of David Andrew Rothrock comprise 2.4 cubic feet. The collection is organized into four series: Publications, Teaching and Research Materials, Student Materials, and Correspondence.
The Publications series consists of manuscripts of published materials and sometimes copies of the publications. They are organized in 7 subseries: (1) Algebra Manuscript and Notes on Functions, (2) Concerning Differential Invariants and Conjugate Functions, (3) Elements of Plane and Spherical Trigonometry, (4) Essentials of Algebra, (5) Essentials of High School Mathematics, (6) Invariants of the Finite Continuous Groups of the Plane, and (7) Solid Geometry. Items in the subseries are arranged according to the original processing arrangement. It is not clear what "Algebra Manuscript and Notes on Functions" is a draft of; however, the materials appear to have been received together under that designation and the arrangement appears to maintain the original. "Concerning Differential Invariants" and "Conjugate Functions" are separate items that were published together. "Essentials of Plane and Spherical Trigonometry" may be a revision since some of the handwritten manuscript pages contain printed clippings. There are both a handwritten and typewritten manuscript as well as a file of figures and one that appears to be lesson plans for a one hour credit course. "Invariants of the Finite Continuous Groups of the Plane" was published in 1899. Rothrock's dissertation had the same title; however, the publication varies from the dissertation.
The Teaching and Research Materials series consists of three subseries: General, Teaching Materials, and Exercises. All of the items in the General subseries are undated and thus it is not clear whether items were teaching and research materials from when he was a student or faculty. A few items appear to be copies of the work of others. Materials in the General subseries are arranged alphabetically by title. The Teaching Materials subseries are dated material and can be identified as related to Rothrock's teaching. Items are arranged by date. The Exercises subseries contain undated mathematical exercises or computations that have little or no text. Materials in this subseries are arranged by title.
The Student Series contains materials that can be identified, by date, from his studies at the University of Chicago and the University of Leipzig. Three of the items are notebooks on Sophus Lie's (1842-1899) theories of continuous groups and differential equations. It is not clear whether these notebooks are a copy of a publication by Lie or whether they contain lecture notes. A fourth notebook contains lectures by Professor H. Maschke. Also in this subseries is Rothrock's 1898 dissertation.
The Correspondence series consists of one item, a letter to the Monroe County Board of Commissioners regarding a "view out and survey" of a pike road in Bean Blossom Township. A blank page at the end has this title on the verso: Viewers Report on Wayport and Mt. Tabor Pike Road. A date in the letter suggests it was written in 1906.
This collection contains the records of the Director of The School of Letters, incumbent Newton P. Stallknecht. The records date between 1947 and 1979, although Stallknecht was only officially the director from 1953 to 1972. The bulk of the collection is comprised of office files from the School of Letters and correspondence between Stallknecht and other faculty and guest lecturers. The diverse faculty correspondence files demonstrate the excellence of the IU School of Letters and the international acclaim it received. The collection includes correspondence with numerous famous American poets and critics, such as Randall Jarrell (1914-1965) and John Crowe Ransom (1888-1974), as well as noted foreign scholars, including the French Existentialist philosopher, Jean Wahl (1888-1974). The collection also includes a sample of School of Letters student files and files representing his general university activities as Director of the School of Letters.
This collection comprises 3 boxes and includes records spanning the 1950s through the 1990s, with the bulk of the collection spanning the 1970s and 1980s. The collection is organized in two series: Faculty memoranda and Class files.
The Faculty memoranda series includes memos to Political Science faculty, 1970-1991, reminding them of meetings, other departmental correspondence regarding meeting times and subjects to be discussed, the transcript of one of the meetings, and the schedule for a faculty retreat in 1980. Also included are minutes from the Department of Political Science Faculty meetings.
The Class files series consists of syllabi from various Political Science professors, arranged alphabetically by the instructors last name. They range in date from the 1950s-1990s, but most date to the 1970s and 1980s. Also included in the files are exams, discussion questions, handouts, and other classroom material.
The Correspondence series primarily consists of letters written to James A. Woodburn by friends and colleagues. Significant correspondents include George Ade, Walter Q. Gresham, Benjamin Harrison, David Starr Jordan, Daniel Kirkwood, Meredith Nicholson, James W. Riley, T. C. Steele, and Frederick Jackson Turner. At the end of this series is a folder of two indexes that list Woodburn's correspondents in alphabetical order as well as the dates of the separate letters.
The Personal items series contains one of Woodburn's report cards from when he was in his final year at IU, a class grade book from when he taught American History and Politics at IU, and a program from a slide show.
The Publications, galleys & transcripts series has been separated into three subseries. The first subseries, History of Indiana University, consists of the transcript, book jacket, announcement of publication, notes and outlines, and the published copy of History of Indiana University. The second subseries, Books and Articles, contains Woodburn's publications. The third subseries, Collected Publications, includes publications written by anyone other than Woodburn.
The Testimonial Banquet series consists of program materials, speeches delivered during the banquet, related news clippings, and related correspondence. This banquet was held on November 30, 1920 to celebrate Woodburn's 84th birthday and the publication of the "History of Indiana University."
In an attempt to maintain the original provenance of the collection, all files were organized in one large series, Subject files, and arranged in alphabetical order by folder title. The subject files include material concerning the administrative functions of the Division of Biological Sciences, the creation of a single Department of Biology, development of undergraduate and graduate courses, and scientific research conducted throughout the division and department by various faculty members including Noble prize winner, Hermann Muller.
The Dunn family collection has been organized into five series: Correspondence, Legal documents, Writings, Cemetery records, and Genealogical material.
The Correspondence series spans from 1851-1892 and includes original letters along with their transcriptions to George Grundy Dunn from some of his associates in Bloomington.
The Legal documents series spans from 1855-1900. This series includes deeds, insurance papers, leases, and receipts from real estate and other transactions from members of the Dunn family. Most of these materials belonged to Felix C., Samuel G., Mary E. and Mabel S. Dunn.
The Writings series spans from 1833-1859 and includes addresses and manuscripts by members of the Dunn family. Items include an address by George Grundy Dunn to the Philomathean Society in 1833 and an address given by William McKee Dunn at the inauguration of Rev. James Wood at Hanover College.
The Cemetery records series spans from 1855-1956. This series includes drawings of the plot plans for the cemetery on the Indiana University campus in the 1950's; sketches of the headstones; and a type-written copy of the original deed for the cemetery written by George Grundy Dunn in 1855. Interestingly, the cemetery is still owned by the Dunn family today and is maintained by the university's grounds crew.
The Genealogical material series spans from 1906 through 1954. Of particular note is a family history record that is mostly on the Knight-Campbell Family, but includes a section on Elizabeth Willis Pryor Dunn, who married Samuel Dunn. This material came from the Archives Reference File under "Dunn, Elizabeth-Genealogy." This Elizabeth Dunn is the daughter of Elizabeth Willis Pryor and Samuel Dunn, and later married Jonathan Richards. This same Elizabeth Dunn drew a map of the United States in 1820 that hangs in the Wylie House in Bloomington. The family record was given to the archives by Margaret Campbell (Mrs. Joseph R. Ewers), great-great-granddaughter of Elizabeth Dunn. Further information is available in Maxwell History and Genealogy.
Additional information about the University's real estate purchases is located in the Archives' Real Estate Files. Additional information on George Grundy Dunn is located at the Lilly Library.
These files are the administrative files of the project. They contain mostly correspondence regarding the project and reports prepared for the United States Department of Justice.
The Correspondence series, arranged chronologically, has been broken down into several sub-series which define the entity being written to. Some of these sub-series have been arranged alphabetically. Sub-series include correspondence to the United States Department of Justice, Co-operation, Report Required, and a miscellaneous sub-series with assorted correspondence.
The Reports series is arranged alphabetically and deals with reports sent to the United States Department of Justice. There is one sub-series regarding research trip reports.
The Subject files series has been arranged alphabetically. One file, Appointments and Tenure, 1954-60 is closed to research due to the sensitive material contained within. Contact the university archivist for more information.
The Financial materials series is a representative sampling of the original records contained in this collection. When the collection was originally processed half a dozen folders were selected that covered the bulk dates of the financial materials. The remaining financial documents were determined to not have any historical significance and were discarded. The files are arranged in alphabetical order.
The records of the provost are divided into two series: Correspondence and Subject files. The correspondence series is further divided into three subseries: general, state field nursing, and construction.
The general correspondence is made up of a variety of subjects Smith addressed in his position as provost. The state field nursing subseries consists of correspondence and reports on the State Field Nursing project sponsored jointly by the Indiana University Training School for Nurses, the Extension Division, and the James Whitcomb Riley Memorial Hospital. The goal of this project was to extend the services of the Riley Hospital to communities throughout Indiana. The subseries on construction includes correspondence about construction throughout IU's Bloomington and Indianapolis campuses, but primarily consists of correspondence on the construction of the 10th Street Memorial Stadium.
The Subject files series contains inventories, records, and reports from a variety of sources. The subject of medicine is most prominent and a good number of the records are about Riley Hospital for Children. Copies of several House Bills can also be found here.
The Edward Grant papers are organized in six series-- Correspondence, Teaching, Student work, Research, Publications, and Professional activities.
The Correspondence series is arranged alphabetically with the most frequent correspondents making up their own folders. The contents of the letters include insight into Dr. Grant's publications, research, and letters from colleagues and students. Some folders are restricted because they contain detailed research proposals. The Correspondence series comprises 2 cubic feet.
The second series, Teaching, is further organized into two subseries--Dr. Grant's materials before beginning his career at Indiana University and after. The bulk of the series consists of folders relating to a variety of courses taught in the History and Philosophy of Science department at I.U. The folders are arranged by course and consist of exams, questionnaires, readings, and handwritten notes. This series comprises 7 cubic feet.
Dr. Grant's work as a student makes up the third series and consists of notes taken from his undergraduate and graduate courses. Some folders contain original research leading up to his dissertation, of which two copies are included. This series comprises 2 cubic feet.
One of the largest series, Research, is further organized into eight subseries- -Research proposals, Research for articles, Miscellaneous research, and Research for five of Grant's books: (Nicole Oresme: "De Proportionibus Proportionum" and "Ad Pauca Respicientes", Nicole Oresme and the Kinematics of Circular Motion. Tractatus de Commensurabilitate Vel Incommensurabilitate Motuum Celi, A Source Book in Medieval Science, Much Ado About Nothing, and Jordanus de Nemore's Arithmetica (unpublished). Included in this series are several National Endowment for the Humanities and National Science Foundation research proposals, microfilmed manuscripts used for his books, handwritten notes, and Xeroxes. There are five oversized folders that pertain to this series, stored in box 23 of the collection. A box of index notes containing notes from Dr. Grant's extensive research completes the series. This series comprises approximately 4 cubic feet.
The Publications series consists of three subseries--Articles, Reviews, and Materials relating to books. The articles subseries contains drafts, correspondence and some published articles. It is arranged in chronological order and there is one oversized folder stored in the last box. Similarly, the Reviews subseries is arranged chronologically and contains drafts and published reviews. The Books subseries is arranged chronologically and contains galley sheets for some of the books, published copies (not of all books), reviews, and permissions. This series comprises approximately 4.5 cubic feet.
The final series of the collection documents Dr. Grant's Professional activities. It is further organized into five subseries--Professional associations, Professional committees, Lectures, Biographical information, and Office files. The first two subseries consist of correspondence pertaining to various associations and the Committees subseries also includes appraisals of History of Science departments at a number of universities. The Lectures subseries consists of drafts of talks given at conferences, meetings, banquets, and universities. Information about Dr. Grant's various Who's Who Listings and some miscellaneous items are contained in the Biographical subseries, including honors and awards, and memorabilia from Dr. Grant's trip to England. The last subseries is comprised of Dr. Grant's files pertaining to the Department of the History and Philosophy of Science and the Department of History Included are minutes of meetings, faculty annual reports, and book acquisition information. This series comprises approximately 4.5 cubic feet.
Collection C198 consists of records created during Edward Grant's tenure as Chair of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, 1973- 79 and again 1987-90. They were separated from Grant's personal papers deposited at the Archives (Collection C184 - www.indiana.edu/~libarch/Personal/c184pers.html).
The collection is organized in two series - Subject files and Correspondence. The Subject files are arranged alphabetically and wherever possible, Dr. Grant's original file heading was used. The files labeled "Agenda" provide a wealth of information on the department, as Prof. Grant put correspondence, memos, or flyers that needed to be discussed at departmental meetings in these Agenda files. Also prominent in the collection are the Budget files, which hold correspondence, Dr. Grant's figures, and memos. Some files are are not open to researchers, as they contain evaluations or letters of recommendation. These files are indicated (RESTRICTED) and listed where they would fall alphabetically, but then placed at the end of Box 2.
The Correspondence series is arranged alphabetically and the more frequent correspondents were assigned their own folders. Frequent correspondents include university administrators Kenneth R. R. Gros-Louis and Morton Lowengrub.
With materials which date from 1907 through 1997, the contents of the American Association of University Women collection is comprised of three series: Administrative files, Subject files, and Scrapbooks.
Series one, the Administrative file series (1916-1997), is comprised of five subseries: Correspondence, Financial records, Governance files, Meeting notes and Reports. Correspondence (1916-1997) includes incoming and outgoing correspondence that organized chronologically and according to the correspondence. Financial records (1949-1996) includes materials such as budgets, receipts and reports. The third sub-series, Governance files (1925-1993) is comprised mostly of bylaws and charters of the Bloomington Branch and the Indiana Division of the A.A.U.W. The Meetings notes (1939-1996) sub-series contains board meeting agendas and minutes, branch meeting minutes and bulletins, secretarial materials, and State Board meeting minutes. The fifth sub-series, Reports (1937-1992), is composed primarily of Annual Reports, Branch Reports, and Treasurer's Reports. Correspondence written by and addressed to Indiana University President, William Lowe Bryan, has been removed and filed in his presidential collection under the heading "A.A.U.W." Correspondence to or from William Lowe Bryan after he resigned as president of the university (June 1938) remain in the collection.
Series two, Subject files (1907-1996), are organized alphabetically by folder title. These files include branch histories, information on programs, calendars, fellowships and scholarships, membership information, A.A.U.W conventions, and several publications. The newsletters are arranged chronologically with the A.A.U.W. Bloomington Branch Newsletter running from 1969-1985. The newsletter was re-named the Bloomington Leaf in 1985 and in this collection the span continues through 1992.
Finally, Series three, Scrapbooks (1941-1988), contains the Scrapbook materials of the Bloomington Branch, and is comprised mostly of newspaper clippings cut from the Bloomington Herald Telephone and the Indiana Daily Student from the 1940s through the 1970s.
Photographs from this collection have been transferred to the Archives Photographs Collection. Please ask a member of the Archives staff to see them, if interested.
The majority of this collection is comprised of the Indiana University-Bloomington Professional Staff Council Business meeting minutes (the bulk falling in-between the years 1993 and 1997) as well as information concerning the many committees, task forces, and university organizations that effected the daily operations and policies of the Professional Staff Council. The collection also contains an Administration series with sub-series concerning the Professional Staff Council's President, & Vice-President; a Membership series comprised of membership lists and election information; and a Committees/Task Forces/University Organizations series with a sub-series containing meeting(s) information and minutes of the separate committees, task forces, and university organizations. Besides bearing the official title of the Indiana University-Bloomington Professional Staff Council some people refer to this professional organization as the Bloomington Professional Staff Council, the Bloomington Professional Council (most common throughout the collection), the Professional Council, or, in very informal instances, just as "the Council".
The Administration series contains documents regarding the bodies that govern the actions and policies of the Professional Staff Council. The IU Board of Trustees as well as individuals such as university Chancellor and Vice-President for academic affairs Kenneth R. R. Gros Louis and university President Myles Brand are represented here. Also in this series are the many university policies and financial summaries/budgets that have had effect on the university's professional employees. Three documents within the Administration series (IUB Staff Council & IU Professional Staff Association Bylaws; IUBPSC Constitution; & the Constitution of the Bloomington faculty) are closely related in that they have evolved and been amended in response to professional employee related issues since the formation of the Professional Staff Council with each file containing drafts and variations of the separate documents. In many cases the Bylaws, Constitution, and Resolutions of the Professional Staff Council are also contained in the IUBPSC Meetings & Minutes series as well as certain committee(s) minutes by their corresponding year. The many drafts of the IUBPSC Constitution also contain variations of the committee's bylaws. The Vice-President and President sub-series contain individual correspondence and reports of both officers. In most cases the reports and significant pieces of correspondence by the Professional Staff Council's Vice-President and President are also contained in the corresponding IUBPSC Meetings & Minutes.
The Committees/Task Forces/University Organizations series contains individual correspondence, committee reports, and other documents related to the issues for which each body is responsible. There are also many ad hoc committees, task forces, and study groups of brief existence depending upon the resolution, or lack thereof, of whatever university policy or action happened to concern the university's professional employees. There are committees of the Professional Staff Council that were created in the early years of the Council's existence and are still active today, such as the Communications, Salary & Benefits, Nominations & Elections, and other committees. In some cases, the committees and task forces represented in this series were actually created by the Bloomington Faculty Council with professional employees serving as active members amongst university faculty in these groups. This series also contains a sub-series titled Committee Meetings & Minutes which includes the minutes of the IUB Professional Staff Council Business meeting as well as the minutes of separate committees, task forces, and university organizations. Often included in the IUB Professional Staff Council's minutes are the monthly and year end reports of the separate committees within the Council as well as reports by the Council's Vice-President and President. Over the course of the Council's existence there have been many individuals serving as the Council's Secretary who were responsible for compiling the minutes of the meetings.
The Membership series is comprised of lists of the university's Professional Staff Association and members of the Professional Staff Council as well as the Council's election related information. The membership lists cover the fluctuating professional staff population over the course of the Council's existence as both general listings and lists by electoral units/districts. The documents concerning election information are mainly election results, letters of nomination, ballots, biographical statements of the individuals nominated to the Professional Staff Council, and statements made by the individuals elected to various positions.
The collection consists of records and correspondence from the directorships of J. Gus Liebenow (1961-1972) and Patrick O'Meara (1972-1993). Records of particular note are early annual reports (1960-1972); records related to the continuing African Studies Seminar (1963-1974), the early development of the African Studies Association (1957-1975), and the Focus: Black America Program (1968-69); and correspondence with international scholars in African Studies.
The African Studies Program Directors' Records are organized into five series: Administration, African Studies Association, Correspondence, Focus: Black America, and University Service, four of which are further arranged into subseries.
Within the Administration series, the first subseries, Annual Reports (1960-1973), is arranged chronologically. The second subseries, "Archives," consists of files so-designated when the records were received and is arranged alphabetically. The third and fourth subseries, Course Offerings (1963-1988) and Governance (1985-1989), are arranged chronologically to facilitate tracking the development of the program. The four subseries on Intra-university Collaboration (1970-1990), Outreach Activities (1966-1988), Projects (1971-1990), and Publications (1982-1990) are arranged alphabetically, then chronologically within a given activity or project. The ninth subseries, Subject Files (1968-1991), is arranged alphabetically.
The African Studies Association series (1957-1975) is arranged chronologically.
The Correspondence series is divided into five subseries, each arranged alphabetically. The first, Faculty (IU) (1962-1993), contains in particular extensive correspondence with Gwendolen Margaret Carter, J. Gus Liebenow after his leaving the directorship of the program in 1972, Alan Merriam, Emile Snyder, and Alan Taylor. The other four subseries are Faculty Recruitment (1961-1972); Faculty, Visiting (1962-1980); Seminar Speakers and Lecturers (1966-1987); and Other Correspondence (1962-1990).
The Focus: Black America Program series (1968-1969) consists of four subseries. The Initial Planning subseries consists of Liebenow's files on conceptualization of the program and intensive planning in May and June 1968; it is roughly chronological within that narrow time frame. The subseries of Administration files is arranged alphabetically, as are the two subseries for Events and for Speakers and Performers.
The University Service series (1979-1995) includes substantive information on the establishment of the Mathers Museum (Museum Advisory Committee files) and the early development of instructional technology at I.U. (Center for Media and Teaching files and Media Task Force files), as well as on International Programs and African Exchanges. The series is arranged alphabetically by committee or board, then chronologically.
This collection consists primarily of papers associated with Johnnie Rutland Smith's participation in two national conferences on education and young people. In 1955, she was invited to attend the White House Conference on Education in her position as 2nd Vice President of the Indiana Federation of Clubs. In 1960, she was invited to participate in the White House conference on Children and Youth as one of four delegates of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, in which she was serving as chairman of the Education Department. Both of these conferences were called by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, who served as honorary chairman; the first drew nearly 2000 people from many walks of life all over the country, and the second some 7000 participants. The 1960 Conference on Children and Youth was the sixth such conference and celebrated the golden anniversary of the first, which had been called by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1909. The collection includes programs, newspaper clippings, reports, notes and drafts of observations by Mrs. Smith, and other materials related to the conferences, arranged by activities that took place before, during, and after the conferences, with separate publicity folders for clippings from news media covering the conferences. Note that the 1955 conference also included a preparatory state conference, the material for which is included in its own folder. Also included in the collection is a pamphlet written by Johnnie Rutland Smith in 1974. This is a history of the Hoosier Salon, an annual exhibition of work by Indiana artists, written to commemorate its fiftieth anniversary.
This collection consists of speeches given by Danilo Orescanin during his tenure as Vice President for University Relations; the material is arranged chronologically. The speeches were given to a variety of university and community organizations; roughly one-third were given to organizations such as Rotary and Kiwanis clubs, and another third at university functions or to university-affiliated groups. The collection also includes two speeches Orescanin gave at the Pro Football Hall of Fame. Most of the speeches are polished drafts, while a few are typewritten outlines.
This collection is organized in one series, Meeting files, arranged chronologically. Each folder contains the minutes corresponding to the meeting date on the folder as well as correspondence, memos, reports and newspaper clippings relating to that meeting.
This collection documents the formation and activities of the Indiana University Cosmopolitan Club chapter from 1916-1970, with most of the material dating from the 1920s through the 1960s. Types of material in the collection include meeting minutes, constitutions, and by-laws; newspaper clippings, correspondence, event programs and invitations, financial reports, membership directories. Similar material is contained in a disassembled scrapbook (1921-1943) of clippings, photographs, meeting minutes, membership rosters, financial records, club constitution and by-laws, event programs and posters, and correspondence. Publications in the collection include an incomplete run of the Cosmo Reporter, the official newsletter of the IU Cosmopolitan Club chapter, the issues of which contain news and announcements and interest pieces on specific students and other countries and cultures.
The collection is organized into two series: Subject files and Scrapbook.
This collection consists of one piece of correspondence from the Athenian Society. The other item in the collection is a book of lecture notes from classes taken during Craven's senior year, 1839-1840.
This collection is organized into two series: Correspondence and Memorabilia. The Correspondence series is further organized into three sub-series: Myron E. Greene to Lovilla Greene, Lovilla Greene to Myron E. Greene, and Family & friends. The Myron E. Greene to Lovilla Greene sub-series spans the years 1933-1944 and comprises the majority of the letters in the collection. Nearly all the letters are handwritten though a portion of them were transferred to V-Mail format by the military (V-Mail was the government's answer to bulky mail  rather than send 18,000 letters overseas, they would microfilm the soldier's letters and send one 16 mm reel. When they arrived in the United States, they were printed and sent on to the addressee.) While Myron served in the military as a dentist, he wrote to his wife almost daily, sometimes even finding time to write two or three letters in one day. In the letters, Myron discusses his military life as a dentist-the number of patients he saw on a given day, the number of teeth he extracted, the places he visited while on leave, the people he encountered, the weather, and the food he consumed. Nearly all letters express some amount of homesickness, and he continually reassures Lovilla of his love for her. The letters vary in length, anywhere from one page to fifteen pages; the letters are arranged chronologically.
The next sub-series, Lovilla Greene to Myron E. Greene, 1942-1943, consists of the daily letters that Lovilla wrote to her husband in his absence. Her letters describe family matters, local gossip, and situations she encountered while working in a munitions factory and coping with Myron's absence at home. In nearly every letter, she expresses her loneliness and love for Myron, optimistically counting down the days when the war will end and they will be back together again. Like Myron's letters to her, Lovilla's letters vary in length from a single page to ten pages; the letters are arranged chronologically.
The Family and friends sub-series, 1942-1944, includes letters from a variety of individuals who wrote to Myron or Lovilla. The letters primarily discuss family or local matters. Additionally, a couple of Myron's friends from the Army also wrote to Lovilla. A small set of greeting cards and sympathy cards (for an unidentified person) complete this sub-series. The sub-series is arranged alphabetically by correspondent. Abbreviations used: LG - Louvilla Greene; MEG - Myron Eugene Greene.
The Memorabilia series, 1942-1991, consists of a small sample of materials that Myron collected during his military service. These items include a small Italian Royal flag, a couple of newspaper clippings, a dinner invitation, a booklet on military insignias and decorations, and a horse racing brochure. Also found in this series is a 1991 VHS tape entitled "A World War II Odyssey of an Indiana Dentist," narrated by Greene and includes his personal movie footage and photographs from World War II.
Within the folder list, oversized materials have been listed where they would fall intellectually within the collection; physically all oversize items have been placed in Box 1.
This collection consists of one series entitled Subject files, which is arranged alphabetically by the original folder title. The Subject files are comprised of the records created and collected by Bepko during his interim presidency and were kept in the original order they were received from the Office of the President. The series ends with Alpha Files, which are copies of official letters sent from the President's Office arranged alphabetically by the surname of the recipient. Topics of interest include but are not limited to visits to the regional campuses of the Indiana University system, IU Athletics, the I-69 controversy, and notes from Indiana University Board of Trustees meetings.
Records of a sensitive or confidential nature have been removed from the files and stored in Box 13. These are labeled as Restricted file removed" in the folder list. Some folders only have certain records removed from them, which are also stored in Box 13 but retain the same folder title from which they were pulled. These files are labeled as "Restricted records removed."
The collection is arranged into seven series: Correspondence; Committees and organizations; ARO (Army Research Office) files; NSF (National Science Foundation) files; Writings; Conferences; and Reviews and evaluations. The Correspondence series is further organized into External mail, Internal mail and General mail.
The Correspondence series contains records from the years 1955-2000. Following Dr. Newton's original arrangement, the series is further organized into three subseries. The first subseries is Internal correspondence, 1969-2000. This subseries consists of Prof. Newton's with Indiana University administrators and colleagues, such as IU President Herman B Wells and Newton's colleagues in the physics department. The next subseries, External correspondence, 1969-1999, consists of correspondence with persons outside IU. Many of the letters are from former students and colleagues who are writing either for letters of recommendation or to ask questions about methods or theories relating to physics. The last subseries within the Correspondence series is General correspondence, 1955-1979. The letters found in this series are more personal in nature or are of a general nature, such as departmental memos. This series is arranged chronologically and closely follows Newton's original organization. He had all of the files organized by fiscal year, but as some were quite large, they were broken down by month in order to make the files more manageable for researchers.
The next series in the collection is entitled Committees and organizations, 1975-2003, and is arranged alphabetically by folder title. The committee folders contain correspondence between committee members, memos, and minutes of some of the meetings. The folders for the organizations contain much of the same materials, although some also contain pamphlets or business cards. Newton's records pertaining to the Indiana University Institute of Advanced Study are a prominent part of this series. Two folders in this series, "Committee to review dean of music school (Charles Webb)" and "Tenure committee," are restricted and not available for use by researchers at this time.
The third series in the Newton collection spans 1965-1975 and is the ARO (Army Research Office) files. This series includes paperwork for grants that Newton received from the Army Research Office on projects focusing on inverse scattering problems, phase transitions and critical points, lattice non-uniformities and localized magnetic moments in solids, and irreversible phenomena. Also found in the files are reports from Newton to the Army Research Office explaining his progress or any problems that he may have encountered while implementing these projects.
Records for Newton's NSF (National Science Foundation) projects make up the next series. Spanning 1968-1992, these projects focus projects related to elementary particle interactions, particle collisions, and the complex Regge Trajectory. The series includes correspondence between Newton, his colleagues, and the NSF, as well as project proposals and outlines. Detailed account statements were pulled and shredded.
The fifth series is entitled Writings, 1960-1992. The writings include works by Newton as well as articles written by his colleagues. This series also includes proofs of two of Newton's books, The Truth of Science and What Makes Nature Tick, complete with illustrations, notes, and corrections.
The next series is Conferences and consists of schedules, flyers, and pamphlets that Newton received from the various conferences that he attended during his career. Several folders in this series are labeled according to the name of the conference, but the bulk of the folders are simply labeled by year. It spans the years 1975-1987.
The last series in the collection is Reviews and evaluations. It is organized alphabetically by folder title and contains reviews of individuals, departments and programs both within and outside of Indiana University. At this time, this series is restricted and cannot be used by researchers.
The bulk of the records in this collection span the tenures of Deans Lowengrub (1982-1988) and Walker (1989-2003).
The first series, Chronological files (1 cubic foot), spans the years from 2000 to 2003. It contains George Walker's outgoing correspondence arranged chronologically.
The second series, RUGS files (5.4 cubic feet), spans the period from 1973 to 2003 and is comprised of the general office files of RUGS, such as records pertaining to deans' meetings, presidential retreats, chancellor's notes, research compliance, and the Research Park.
Topical files make up the third series (1.3 cubic feet), spanning 1978-2000. Records within this series cover a variety of subjects, such as the Committee on Institutional Cooperation (CIC), Indianapolis Center for Advanced Research (ICFAR), the Lilly Endowment, and the Indiana Economic Development Council.
The fourth series, Academic schools (.6 cubic feet), spans the period from 1978-2000. Items in this series pertain to the interaction between RUGS and the many academic schools in which graduate students are enrolled, such as the College of Arts and Sciences and the School of Fine Arts.
Records in the fifth series, Academic departments (.3 cubic feet), are dated from 1985-1999. This small series relates to the relationship between RUGS and constituent departments such as Sociology and Psychology. Many times, these departments were involved in the organization of RUGS' centers and institutes.
The sixth series consists of RUGS' records on Administrative departments within the university, such as the Office of Affirmative Action and the Dean of the Faculties. Files regarding IU's regional campuses may also be found here. Records span the period from 1978-1999 and comprise.2 cubic feet.
The seventh series, RUGS committees (.1 cubic foot), is made up of only two files: Standing Committee on Research Integrity, 1996-1997 and University Research Policy Committee, 1997-1999.
The next series is titled University centers, 1978-2000 (1 cubic foot). These centers report to another school or office, but RUGS is responsible for making certain these centers are given confirmation of their center status as well as ensuring approval by the Board of Trustees.
The ninth series, University centers  Proposed (.6 cubic feet), spans the period from 1974-2000. Records pertaining to the Russian and East European Institute and the Rural Center for the Study and Prevention of HIV/STD can be found here.
The tenth series, University centers  Proposed  Not approved (.2 cubic feet), spans from the period from 1997-1999. Information regarding the Hamilton/Lugar Center and the Center for Underwater Science is included in this series.
The eleventh and final series, RUGS centers, 1962-2002, is the largest of this collection. Records in this series document those centers that report directly to RUGS. Prominent subjects include the Cyclotron Facility, the Institute for the Study of Developmental Disabilities (ISDD), the Kinsey Institute for Sex Research, and the Research Center for Language and Semiotic Studies. (13.7 cubic feet)
This collection is organized into four series: Correspondence; Administrative files; Radio shows; and Radio and television stations. The Administrative files series is further organized into two sub-series: Annual reports and Subject files. The entire collection spans the years 1939-1963 and is arranged alphabetically by folder title.
The Correspondence series was created from files originally labeled "Miscellaneous," and is comprised of correspondence between the chair and colleagues within the University as well as outside contacts. Prominent correspondents include John Ashton, Herman Briscoe, William O. Aldridge, W.G. Biddle, Governor George N. Craig, Norman Ramsey, Dean Frank T. Gucker, and Herman B Wells, and officials from various state universities and several national organizations. The subject matter covered by the correspondence includes award nominations, information on former students, letters pertaining to radio programs at Universities outside of IU, fan mail and mailed questionnaires and surveys. The materials in this series span the period from 1942-1961.
Administrative files, 1937-1962, is the second series in the collection. This series is further organized into two sub-series: Annual reports and Subject files. The Annual reports sub-series includes departmental reports from 1937-1962. The second sub-series, Subject files, 1943-1961, contains records pertaining to various national associations, such as such as the AFM (American Film Market), the FCC (Federal Communications Commission),and the NAB (National Association of Broadcasters). The records in this sub-series deal mostly with radio and telecommunications, Indiana University policies and procedures, the radio-TV departments of other Universities, faculty matters, awards, and educational courses and programs.
The next series in the collection is Radio and Television shows, 1951-1961. It contains scripts of shows put on the air by Indiana University as well as memos and schedules relating to these shows including episodes of "University Spotlight," "Sunday news & sports," and "Once Upon a Time." The folders in this series are arranged alphabetically, and the folders containing records pertaining to television stations are marked as such.
The fourth series in the collection, Radio and television stations, contains information about radio and television stations from all over the United States, but mostly in the Midwest. Some of the folders contain transcripts of particular shows, while others contain show lists and show times listed according to time zone. Many of the school stations were contracted to air Indiana University's program, "School of the Sky". The records in this series span the period from 1943-1952.
This collection consists of nine lectures and sermons by Prof. Ballantine. Except for "Old Age," all are handwritten. Most are undated, but those that do have dates span the period from 1872-1879. A deeply religious man, most of Ballantine's lectures and sermons are of a religious nature. The sermons do not include any details about where or when they were delivered.
The general file folders mostly contain the correspondence of President Stahr and Joseph Ewers, Assistant to the President. Prominent topics within this correspondence include pay raises for faculty members, complaints registered to the president, and requests for scholastic information. Topical areas with significant amounts of material include the Assembly Hall controversy and construction, the Nigerian Project, the founding of WTIU (located under Radio and Television), Indiana state matters encompassing university relations with Congress and the State Legislature, the civil rights movement in education (found under the original 1960's heading 'negro'), the Indiana University self-study conducted over a period of three years, speakers Herbert Aptheker and Allen Ginsburg with the ensuing controversy, Vietnam War and related student protests, and the Young Socialist Alliance controversy. The collection also includes materials relating to members of the Indiana University community, including Dean Wilfred C. Bain, Ralph Collins, George H. List, Joseph Sutton, and Herman B Wells. Similar records may be found related to prominent politicians and researchers such as Governor Birch Bayh, United States vice president Hebert H. Humphrey, Francis Keppel, and Indiana Governor Matthew E. Walsh.
The records in this collection represent the bulk of the records from Elvis Stahr's tenure as president of IU. However, additions may be made to these records periodically as they are found in other accessions. Please ask Archives staff for more details.
The Continuing Studies records are organized into five series. The first, Administrative files (1980-1998), is a small series containing miscellaneous administrative information from only selective dates. Materials include reports, information relating to advertizing and marketing, and binders which include information such as mission statements, organizational charts, annual reports, calendars, program information, and records on Mini University (see also IU Archives Collection C338 for the records of Mini University).
The second series, Publications (1971-2008), includes the biannual course catalogs released by the School of Continuing Studies. The catalogs include general information about the program; available courses including information on the instructor, fees and locations; and information on a variety of other Continuing Studies programs.
The Non-credit/ Lifelong Learning Course files (1981-2004) are arranged alphabetically by keyword in the course title such as gardening and music. Materials include course summaries, syllabi, course handouts, various clippings relating to the subject matter of the course and correspondence relating to the scheduling of the course.
The Lifelong Learning Day Trips (1982-2002) series is organized alphabetically by location. Materials include financial documents such as budgets and invoices, various publications and pamphlets relating to the destination of the trip, schedules, contracts, class rosters, correspondence relating to the planning of the event.
The final series, Student Files (1995-2004) contains student profile and grade point average statistical information. This series is closed to researchers.
The contents of this collection represent records created and collected during the latter half of President William Lowe Bryan's tenure, 1913-1937. (Records dating from 1902-1913 can be found in Collection C270.) Arranged alphabetically by subject or correspondent's surname, the collection consists of of correspondence, publications, and reports relating to university operations and major events within the university system and the local and academic communities.
Highlights of the collection include: materials relating to the Olmsted Brothers; correspondence with prominent IU professors and administrators, such as W.A. Alexander, George A. Ball, Ward G. Biddle, R.E. Cavanaugh, Frank R. Elliott, James W. Fesler, Alfred Kinsey, Robert W. Long, Burton D. Myers, Mrs. Alice Nelson, W.A. Rawles, Henry Lester Smith, Ulysses H. Smith, Stith Thompson, Herman B Wells, Ora Wildermuth, and James Woodburn; various other universities such as University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Purdue University; and other topics and institutions including Prohibition, the Rhodes Trust, the State Department of Public Instruction, the United States Veterans and War Departments, and the Young Men's Christian Association (Y.M.C.A.).
The records in this collection represent the bulk of the records from William Lowe Bryan's tenure as president of IU. However, additions may be made to these records periodically as they are found in other accessions. Please ask Archives staff for more details.
Following the original order of the records, files are arranged alphabetically by folder heading. Collection is a rich source of university history during this time period, consisting not only of Wells's correspondence, but also the correspondence of several high ranking administrators.
Additions may be made to the collection as additional records are interfiled. Please contact Archives staff for further information.
The Bureau of Public Discussion Director's records are organized into three series. The first series, Administrative files (1956-1977), is arranged alphabetically and includes a wide range of materials such as general programming information, files on possible seminars and programming, biographical information on potential speakers, and a variety of correspondence files with individuals from various committees, Indiana University campuses, institutions and numerous other contacts. Other files which specifically cover the Bureau of Public Discussion and the Division of Continuing Education include materials such as annual reports, budgets, plans and surveys, and policies and procedures. The folders labeled "Permanent Files" include examples of programs from a variety of events scheduled by the Bureau of Public Discussion.
Arranged alphabetically by topic, the Conference and seminar files (1963-1976) include a wide range of materials including financial documents; correspondence relating to the planning of events; clippings; press releases; and conference materials such as schedules, handouts, clippings, programs, proceedings and brochures all covering topics such as international trade, foreign policy in China, Africa, Latin America and West-Europe, land use, the energy crisis, and waste utilization.
The final series, Program and course files (1961-1977), are arranged alphabetically by topic. The materials in this series include course materials such as reading lists, class schedules and handouts; correspondence relating to the scheduling of events; news releases; agendas; travel information, and evaluations. These programs include events such as lecture series, group tours, home study programs, short courses, high school courses, and television programs. Furthermore there is a significant amount of materials relating to the Science and International Affairs section of Mini University (a week-long annual educational vacation co-sponsored by the Alumni Association and the School of Continuing Studies) and to a proposed experimental project known as the Discussion Mobile. The Discussion Mobile was designed as a moveable reading and meeting room and a specialized library, which would include a librarian and special guest lecturers who provided information and promoted discussion on current political, economic, and social discussion in areas where Bureau services were not available.
This collection consists of the speeches given by Adam Herbert during his tenure as Indiana University's 17th president, dating June 2003- December 2007 and during the transition period of January to May 2008.
Some highlights of this collection include all of the commencement addresses given by President Herbert, the eulogy of football Coach Terry Hoeppner, and speeches made at both student and professional events. Some events of note are pep rallies for football and basketball (such as the annual Oaken Bucket game against Purdue); receptions for Wells Scholars and other scholarships recipients; committee meetings (such as budget and diversity committees); alumni meetings and dinners, both national and international; and conferences such as the IU Women's colloquium.
The papers for Joseph C. Muhler are organized into five series; Research, Publications, Subject, Correspondence, and Audio-visual.
The first series, Research, is arranged alphabetically and consists of a wide variety of records related to Muhler's research projects. This is the largest series in the collection. Included in this series is original research such as dental charts, x-rays, and data charts; reports regarding the findings for specific projects; correspondence between Muhler and specific companies or Indiana University in relation to his studies; and permission forms and cost projections. Materials are organized by specific project when possible or by company when there are a variety of projects for the same company. Included in the wide variety of projects are those for chewing gum, mechanical toothbrushes, and fortified consumption products. Prominently featured in this series is Muhler's research materials related to the development of Crest. Many of the folders containing data, such as charts and statistical representations, have very general folder titles as Muhler did not relate these materials to specific projects.
The second series, Publications, is arranged alphabetically and contains a large variety of journal publications, articles and manuscripts written by Muhler. Included in this series are draft and completed copies of several of Muhler's books, such as Fifty-Two Pearls and Their Environment and Textbook of Biochemistry for Dental Students and a wide variety of articles related to Muhler's studies with stannous fluoride and preventative dentistry practices.
Arranged alphabetically, the third series, Subject files, consists of a wide variety of materials related to Muhler's work at Indiana University, such as his teaching files; his records on the development of a program in preventative dentistry, student theses; his records related to the Institute for Advanced Study; his records on participation in various organizations, and records relating to Muhler's philanthropic endeavors, including his work with the Sisters of the Woods, the IU Alumni Family Camp, and his donations to the Indiana University Foundation.
The fourth series, Correspondence, is arranged alphabetically and includes correspondence with a wide range of individuals and organizations. Included in this series is correspondence with Herman B Wells, Harry Day, and with representatives of the United States Navy and Army.
The final series, Audio-visual, consists of a variety of titled and untitled 16 mm film reels. Included in this series are commercials for Fresh Look products and television spots on fluoride.
The papers of Horst Frenz span the years of 1905-1990 and are organized into four series; Publications and writings, Correspondence, Professional activity and Subject files.
The first series, Publications and writings (1938-1988), comprises the bulk of the collection and contains notes, drafts, and published copies of Frenz's written works. It is arranged chronologically by date of publication, though there are many undated items that have been arranged alphabetically by title or subject at the end of the series. Prominent subjects in these publications include comparative literature and playwrights and authors such as Eugene O'Neill, Thornton Wilder, and Thomas Wolf, and Walt Whitman.
The second series, Correspondence, is arranged alphabetically and contains professional correspondence dated 1935-1990. Much of the correspondence relates to publications, research, professional organizations, and academic discussions of topics related to comparative literature. Individuals and organizations with whom Frenz corresponded repeatedly have been grouped together. Some of the prominent correspondents include Hans Joachim Lang, Gyorgy Vajda, and Istvan Soter, the president of the International Comparative Literature Association from 1970-1973. Other letters that represent one time correspondence have been organized by year in the folders titled "General Correspondence."
The third series, Professional activity, contains materials from the years 1938-1990. These materials pertain to many aspects of Frenz's career, such as research, publications, lectures, and organizations in which Frenz was involved. Examples of materials in this series include typed copies of addresses given by Frenz, information on his grant projects, flyers and programs for his lectures, and reviews of his publications.
The Subject files series spans the years 1905-1989 and is arranged alphabetically by folder heading. It contains a variety of materials related to Frenz's activities at Indiana University and his areas of interest. Included in this series are items pertaining to the American Comparative Literature Association and the International Comparative Literature Association, both organizations in which Frenz served as president. There are also many items about Indiana University in general and I.U.'s Comparative Literature department.
The records of the Indiana University Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures is organized into four series: Programs and workshops; Administrative files; Teaching files; and Faculty and teaching personnel.
The first series, Programs and workshops, is arranged alphabetically by folder title and contains a wide variety of material relating to the various programs and workshops organized by the department. Included in this series is a significant number of records relating to the department's work with the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) and includes proposals, reports, publicity materials, and administrative files for programs supported by NDEA. Also included are materials for intensive Russian and Slavic workshops and language study tours arranged by the department.
Administrative files, the second series, is arranged alphabetically by folder heading and includes correspondence, enrollment statistics, and materials relating to Indiana Slavic Studies, a journal edited by members of the department.
The third series, Teaching files, is a small series arranged alphabetically by course number and consists of syllabi and course descriptions for a small number of courses provided by the department.
The final series, Faculty and teaching personnel, consists of a wide variety of materials relating to specific faculty and teaching personnel including language instructors and lecturers. Included in this series are correspondence, publications, and recommendations. These files still hold a large number of recommendations and social security numbers and are currently closed. Researchers must notify archives staff well in advance if they would like to see these files so that there is time to review and pull confidential material.
The records of Kelley Student Government span the period from 2002-2009. This collection consists primarily of KGS administrative records and is organized into a single series of Administrative files. The series is arranged chronologically and then alphabetically by folder title within each year. Materials include committee and council notes, including those related to the Undergraduate Policy Committee and Executive Board; president's notes; meeting minutes, and project ideas.
The Bradford family collection contains records documenting the Bradford Sand Mining Company as well as papers pertaining to the Bradford family.
Spanning the period from 1831 to 1941, materials in the Bradford Sand Mining Company series include various items documenting the business activities related to land development by the company. Further organized into two subseries, the Business documentation subseries include the articles of association from 1877; advertising brochures from circa 1888; correspondence with Garden City Sand Company, The Peerless Sand Company, and the Hoosier Moulding Sand Company; and financial records such as checkbook stubs and rough dock inventories. The bulk of the material in the Bradford Sand Mining Company series relates to land development. Within this subseries are records dealing with electric service, land acquisition, pipelines, and roadway construction. Common items in all four topic areas are petitions to build and right-of-way grants. Items specific to electric service include pole agreements and a bill of sale for electrical wires. Materials relating to pipelines also include a sketch mapping out where the pipelines are located. Land acquisition materials consist primarily of land grant agreements. Among the items relating to roadway construction is an 1876 observer's journal documenting progress made up to that point.
The second series contains papers pertaining to the Bradford family from 1865 to 1940. This series is further organized into six subseries: Correspondence, Family history, Finances, Land deeds and grants, Local memorabilia, and Wills. Correspondence consists largely of letters written to the Bradfords by Eliza (Bradford) and husband Dr. Grant Monical from Camp George in Georgia and later Cuba where Grant was a Captain in the Spanish-American War. Documenting the Bradford family history is an undated pencil sketch of the family tree accompanied by a related piece of correspondence. There are also requests from Horace Standish Bradford and the Society of Mayflower Descendants for further genealogical information. Financial items include checkbook stubs from the early 1900s, account balance sheets, and state income tax forms spanning from the period from 1925 to 1940. A large collection of land deeds documenting the passing of family land from one generation to the next covers 68 years, from 1865 to 1933. The Memorabilia subseries includes an undated Republican Party election flyer, Perry Bradford's certificate from Indianapolis Business College indicating he paid for Life Membership, which allowed him to take courses for life, a 1930 Morgan County Farmer's Yearbook, and what appears to be a prose book, handwritten, author unknown. Also held in the Bradford family collection are the wills of Albert and Perry Bradford, various members of the Bradford family, Joseph Campbell, and John H. Rothrock, Sr.
The Borns Jewish Studies Program records span the period from the Program's beginning in 1972 through 2010. The collection is organized into five series: Administrative files, Correspondence, Publications, Subject files, and Multimedia.
The Administrative files series (1974-2007) includes materials relating to the faculty and staff of the Jewish Studies program such as information about committees, events, and research. Other files relate to the program in general, such as the bachelor's degree and certificate requirements, lectures, files on Tal Bet Shemesh (a summer archaeological program in Israel), and the Piser essay prize.
The Correspondence series (1975-2008) includes interdepartmental communication and emails from the program faculty and administrators to all students in the program regarding upcoming events and opportunities.
The Publications series includes both newsletters and newsletter preparation materials from 1983-2010.
The Subject files series is arranged alphabetically by folder title and includes materials on Judaism and Jewish Studies, Israel, and Indiana University. It ranges from 1972-2000. Some topics of interest include the Indiana Sukkot Project and the Jewish Book Council.
The Multimedia series contains videocassette recordings of the Jewish Studies Program's sponsored lectures. Included in this series recordings from the Portrait of a People Series and Connections: The Jewish Experience in History, Thought, and Music Series. Dates range from 1978-1984.
The records of the Indiana University Staff Council are organized in a single series, Administrative files. This series is further organized into two sub-series: Minutes and agendas and General files.
The first sub-series, Minutes and agendas (1966-1993), consists of minutes, agendas, attendance records, and member lists documenting business proceedings at Staff Council general meetings. Related informational documents dispersed at meetings are included in these files as well. A number of cassette tapes containing audio recordings of Staff Council meetings are included in this series, but are physically housed at the end of the collection; recordings on these tapes represent meetings for which a transcription of minutes was not identified among paper records.
The second sub-series, General files, (1951-1993) consists of a wide variety of documents related to various activities and objectives pursued by the Staff Council. General files in this series include reports, correspondence, topical documents, and on occasion, minutes, agendas, and member information. A number of documents are organized according to committees, which acted as topical subunits within the Staff Council. Also included in this series are by-laws, group chronologies, memos, year-end reports, and documents related to the Staff Council's largest annual fundraising eventthe Fun Frolic. Relevant electronic files from three 5.25 inch floppy computer disks were printed out and are filed in this series as well. A number of documents from the folder entitled "Educational Grants Committee, Award Applications, 1989-1990" were identified as sensitive information; these documents are restricted to researchers and are stored at the end of the collection.
The papers of James B. Christoph span the years from 1959-1998 and are organized into three series: Correspondence, Teaching and professional activities, and Subject files.
The Correspondence series includes correspondence spanning the period from 1961-1998, some of which predates Christoph's time at Indiana University. The bulk of this correspondence is arranged by year, though a portion of it is arranged alphabetically by subject. The correspondents and topics within the correspondence vary widely, but recurrent subjects include: publications and editorial comments, research projects, and political science and West European studies department matters. There are also many letters from Christoph's students and former students. Student evaluations and recommendations written by Christoph have been removed from the correspondence folders and are restricted.
The next series, Teaching and professional activities, is dated 1962-1996. It is further organized into 3 subseries, which are Course materials and notes, Faculty annual reports and Academic projects and lectures. Items in the Course materials and notes subseries are dated 1969-1996 and are arranged alphabetically by course title or folder heading and consist of Christoph's lecture notes, exam questions, syllabi, and other handouts for the students. Materials containing student grades have been removed from these folders. Included in the second subseries, Faculty annual reports, are Christoph's annual reports from 1967-1995. These describe in detail his professional activities and accomplishments. Many of the folders also include evidence of these activities and accomplishments, such as letters and announcements. Dated 1962-1996, the Academic projects and lectures subseries contains materials pertaining to conference and seminar presentations and reviews of his book Capital Punishment and British Politics. Also included are correspondence and interview notes for a research project which explored changes in the outlook and roles of senior British civil servants in the late 1980s.
The Subject files series spans the years 1959-1996 and is arranged alphabetically by folder heading. This small series includes items on varying topics, such as political pamphlets and fliers from British parliamentary elections and materials collected by Christoph about the National Endowment for the Arts.
The Folklore Students' Association records comprise.6 cubic feet of records spanning the period from 1972 to 2009. There are three series in this collection, Administrative files, 1972-1984, Meeting minutes and reports, 1977-1983, and Newsletters, 1977-1992.
The Administrative files span the period from 2009 and contain the Charter, resolutions, business and financial records, and documentation pertaining to a student conference organized by the FSA Student Paper Conferences.
The second series, Meeting minutes and reports, spans the period from 1977-1988. This series contains the minutes recorded at student and faculty meetings for the Folklore Students' Association, as well as committee reports filed. The minutes reflect the issues the FSA dealt with, such as course offerings, graduate student research, and even faculty appointments. The records are not complete.
The third series, Newsletters spans the period from 1977-1992. The monthly, sometimes biweekly, newsletters published by the Folklore Students' Association are contained within this series. The newsletter reports on issues affecting the student and faculty body in the field of folklore, such as course offerings, student research projects, publication announcements, and faculty appointments.
The records of the Office of University Safety span the years 1966-1977 and are organized into two series: Administrative files, and the Indiana University Police Academy (I.U.P.A.).
The first series, Administrative files, spans the years 1966-1977, and contains records and correspondence that document the general activities and policies of the Office of University Safety. This series is organized alphabetically by folder heading and includes annuals reports, training information, policy and procedure manuals, employment information, and various other items.
Indiana University Police Academy (I.U.P.A.), the second series, spans the years 1970-1977 and contains records relating to the administration of the IU Police Academy. Much of the material in this series pertains to the I.U.P.A. Cadet Program and includes brochures and information about recruitment and cadet training. Items related to funding for the I.U.P.A. from the Indiana Criminal Justice Planning Agency (I.J.C.P.A.) represent a large portion of this series. Other items include memoranda, inquiries, and general correspondence.
The Ruth C. Engs papers have been organized into seven main series: Research, writing and professional activities files: Correspondence; Teaching files; Tenure and administrative files; Personal materials, Audiovisual and Removable Media and The Saint Meinrad Archabbey Projects.
The Research, writing and professional activities series is by far the largest in the collection, containing material that documents Dr. Engs' research, scholarship, publications, and participation in professional organizations and activities. This series includes several subseries, based largely on her original arrangement of the papers. The first several subseries document Dr. Engs' research activities, including files that contain questionnaires, surveys, and data used to support her scholarship. Another subseries contains drafts and correspondence related to articles she has written and research she has conducted. The subseries dedicated to clippings contains copies of newspaper and magazine articles that reference Engs' scholarship; clippings are organized either by specific scholarly work or by general time frame.
Subsequent subseries, including Opinions and Editorials; Published Essays and Articles; Published Research Articles; Dissertation & Master's Thesis, Essays, Encyclopedia Entries and Pedagogical Publications; Non-Research Presentations; Research Conference Presentations; Published Books and Book Chapters; Book Files; and General Book and Publication Files contain copies of scholarly work produced by Engs. Files may also include correspondence, drafts, notes, and reviews related to a work of scholarship or a presentation. Similar material related to unpublished or incomplete research can be found in the subseries titled Unpublished Handouts; Unpublished or Not Accepted Essays or Op-Eds; Unpublished or Not Accepted Research Articles/Book Chapters/Books; Unaccepted Book Proposals; and Not Started or Incomplete Research.
The Conference Programs and Proceedings subseries contains printed programs, proceedings, and other materials related to professional conferences attended by Engs. The Original Artwork, Photographs, and Illustrations subseries contains visual materials created, designed, or used by Engs in publications over the course of her professional career. The Service Committees and Projects subseries contains material documenting her participation in professional organizations. The Grant Proposals and Award Submissions subseries contains documentation related to the preparation of proposals for grants and awards. The subseries entitled Workshop Presentation & Outline Files contains materials related to workshop presentations designed and given by Ruth Engs. Finally, the Reviews Written by Ruth Engs subseries contains copies of reviews written by Engs on other individuals' scholarly contributions.
The second series, Correspondence files, consists of correspondence files maintained by Engs during her academic career and is arranged alphabetically by correspondent or subject. A set of correspondence files organized generally by decade can be found in the General Correspondence files within this series. Prominent correspondents include David Hanson, Frank McCloskey, and Dennis Daniels.
Teaching files is the third series of the collection and contains Prof. Engs' teaching materials, including syllabi, handouts, exam materials, visual materials, slides, and notes. The series contains four subseries, with each subseries devoted to teaching materials from Indiana University, the US Army Reserves, the Union Institute, and Walden University. The Indiana University subseries, which is by far the largest, contains general teaching materials, as well as teaching materials organized by course. Courses include Personal Health, Human Diseases and Epidemiology, Nature of Addictive Behaviors, and Introduction to Health Counseling. The subseries for the US Army Reserves, the Union Institute, and Walden University all contain a small quantity of general teaching and curriculum files.
The fourth series, Tenure and administrative files, contains records relating to tenure and other administrative activities during Engs' career. Included are tenure and promotion evaluations as well as CVs, annual reports, and sabbatical applications. Many of the files in this series are closed to researchers at this time.
The fifth series, Personal materials, includes photographs, writings from her early life, and biographical materials and clippings.
The sixth series, Audiovisual and Removable Media, includes recordings of lectures given by Dr. Engs and several copies of her film Booze and Yous.
The seventh and final series, The Saint Meinrad Archabbey Projects, includes two subseries. Booklets, Essays, and Drafts contains materials regarding the history of the Archabbey and finding aids created by Eng. Conversations in the Abbey contains transcripts, drafts, essays, biographies of the monks of the Order of Saint Benedict (OSB), and other materials relating to her book.
The L.L. Waters papers span the years 1921-1994 and are organized into five series: Correspondence, Teaching, Professional organizations and conferences, Consulting, and Scholarship and publications.
The first series, Correspondence, is further organized into two subseries: General correspondence and Administrative and interdepartmental correspondence. With correspondence spanning the period from 1939 to 1994, the General correspondence subseries is arranged chronologically and within folders alphabetically by the correspondent's surname. The correspondence in this series reflects Waters' active professional life and includes notes from many professional contacts pertaining to transportation-related issues, research, conferences, and publications. Most of the correspondence is with Waters' colleagues outside of Indiana University, but not exclusively. Frequent correspondents include William Buchanan, general manager of the Louisville, New Albany & Corydon Railroad Company, as well as other leaders in transportation companies. Other frequent correspondents include fellow faculty in business and related fields throughout the country, particularly colleagues from the University of Kansas, Lawrence, such as Ethan Allen and Frank Stockton. The Administrative and interdepartmental correspondence subseries (1950-1994) is arranged alphabetically by folder heading. This subseries contains a large amount of interdepartmental correspondence spanning the period from 1950 to 1977. Correspondence relating to Waters duties as coordinator of the European Productivity Agency program at IU can be found within these files. Items with student grades and recommendations have been removed. A small sample of recommendation letters have been retained but are restricted at this time and have been physically placed at the end of the collection.
Teaching is a brief series with materials dating from 1936-1971. Items such as exam questions, reading lists, bibliographies and early student evaluations of Waters' teaching can be found in this series. Files are arranged alphabetically by folder heading. A small sample of recommendation letters have been retained but are restricted at this time and have been physically placed at the end of the collection.
The Professional organizations and conferences series spans the years 1949-1994. It is arranged alphabetically by organization or conference name. The bulk of the material in this series pertains to conferences, and includes submitted papers, conference schedules, and correspondence regarding conference planning. Materials related to the Indiana University International Business Forum makes up a sizable portion of the subseries. Correspondence, newsletters, meeting minutes and other materials relating to the American Society of Traffic and Transportation and the Midwest Business Administration Association can also be located in this series.
The Consulting series is dated 1948-1987 and is arranged alphabetically by organization name. Organizations represented include the National Defense Transportation Association, the University of Tennessee, and the World Bank. Included are reports by Waters and his colleagues, correspondence, and research material.
The final series, Scholarship and publications, is further organized into three subseries: Research material and correspondence related to publications, Manuscripts, and Publications. The Research material and correspondence subseries is dated 1921-1994, with the bulk of the material dating from the 1940s. It primarily contains correspondence and news clippings related to research projects such as the Santa Fe Railroad and research for the book Energy to Move. The second subseries, Manuscripts, is arranged alphabetically by folder heading and contains typescripts of articles, papers, reviews, and speeches by Waters from the years 1934-1991. This subseries also contains the manuscripts of two books, Investments and Transportation in Indiana. In addition, there is one folder of typed and handwritten papers written by Waters as a student. The Publications subseries spans the period from 1936 to 1991. It is arranged alphabetically by type of publication. Included are articles and monographs, book reviews, and books, including Waters' Energy to Move and Steel Rails to Santa Fe, as well as both his master's and Ph.D. theses. There are also bound issues of Your Business from the Bureau of Business Research at the University of Kansas, which Waters directed from 1939-1948. Some issues contain articles by Waters, but many do not. The books within the publications subseries are arranged chronologically.
The Frank O. and Daisy Beck papers span the period 1890-1969, with the bulk of the records created in the years 1910-1969. The collection is organized into five series: Biographical materials, Publications and research, Indiana University, Professional associations and activities, and Correspondence.
The Biographical materials (1899-1966) contain documents related to Frank and Daisy's personal life such as biographical clippings, a notebook from Frank's study at Harvard University, a dairy Daisy kept during travels through Europe, and of particular note a family genealogical manuscript tracing the lineage of Col. John Ketcham, one of the original IU Trustees.
In the second series Publications and research (1890-1967), Daisy and Frank Beck's publications are divided into two separate sub-series. Those of Daisy Beck's (1911-1962) consist of published copies of articles, manuscripts, related correspondence and reviews. Of particular note here is Once Over Lightly: An Indiana University Story a humorous collection of historical stories tracing the early development of Indiana University. The second sub-series consists of Frank Beck's publications and research (1890-1967) and consists primarily of correspondence, manuscripts, and copies of three of his published books  My Home Town (1958), Hobohemia (1957), and Some Aspects of Race Relations at Indiana University (1962). This sub-series also contain numerous research related subject files which contain collected newspaper clippings, newsletters and pamphlets on a variety of subjects, and research notes, possibly for his sermons or publications. A large amount of material here, relates to his research on aging and on the rights of the elderly, as well as on civil rights and race relations.
The Indiana University (1919-1967) series is further organized into two subseries. The first, Beck Chapel (1944-1967), consists of materials documenting Frank and Daisy Beck's involvement in gaining approval for the construction and design of the chapel on the campus and for the mission of the chapel as a symbol of religious unity. Of particular interest here are correspondence and drawings and specifications relating to the architectural design of the chapel as well as a scrapbook documenting the early years of the chapels existence. The second sub-series, General (1919-1961), contains files documenting Frank Beck's involvement on the university campus in various capacities. Of particular note here are files relating to his involvement as an advisor with the various religious entities on campus, such as the University Committee on Religion and the Student Religious Cabinet. Others records document Beck's involvement with the Student Government Committee, a predecessor to the official organization of student government; the Town Hall Club, a student organization which sought to bring social and political problems up for discussion in public forums; and the Student Refugee Committee which sought to sponsor European WWII refugees so that I might attend Indiana University. Topical files of interest include those on the Japanese Student Relocation in the aftermath of Pearl Harbor as well as the Chicago Reconciliation trips for university students which sought to broaden understanding between those of different races and nationalities.
The Professional associations and activities (1916-1969) series consists of those records pertaining to Frank Beck's activities outside of Indiana University. These include files relating to Beck's interest in aging such as participation in the Borrowed Time Club, the Indiana State Commission on the Aged and the Aging, and the Indiana School of Religion, as well as his tenure as Director of the Chicago Reconciliation Tours.
Finally, the Correspondence series (1899-1967) primarily consists of personal correspondence with family members and Frank Beck's former students at Indiana University. In reference to family members, of particular note is correspondence with Willard and Minnie Beck and Lois Lucile Cook who were also actively involved in the ministry of the Methodist Church. Correspondence with students focused mostly upon their lives following the university as well as how their involvement with the Student Religious Cabinet impacted their future endeavors and their outlook upon their surrounding communities. Other notable correspondents include numerous former students who were deployed stateside and overseas during the Second World War, including Christmas cards from Saul J. Abraham while stationed in Hawaii, a letter from Robert and Meg Dyer in October 1945 which poignantly describes the celebrations in a small northern town in Wisconsin the day that the war ended, and from David Griggs and Albert Losche who describe the post-war occupation of Germany.
The collection spans four boxes of records from GPD organized into three main series, based on the original order of the records as received by the Archives: U.S. Government Agencies, Administrative files, and Subject files.
The U.S. Government Agencies series contains twelve folders with documents spanning 1942 to 2004. The majority of these files are correspondence files between the GPD and various government agencies, such as the U.S. Army Department, U.S. Education Department, and the Foreign Broadcast Information Service, to name a few. Most of the correspondence between the GPD and these various government agencies is in regards to implementing or discontinuing certain programs such as DOCEX, as well as requesting specific documents or choosing from among lists of available publications.
The Administrative files series is made up of thirty-two folders ranging from the years 1944 to 1997. Most folders in this series pertain to policies, procedures, the implementation and maintenance of new systems, or financial reports. There are five folders from 1968 to 1974 that include reports, data and instructions for the Indiana Libraries Serials Data Bank (ILSDB) project, which was a collaborative project between participating Indiana libraries to compile an updated and comprehensive list of their serials. Also of interest in this series is the file IU Library, GPD Correspondence, 1944-1996 which contains correspondence between the GPD and other IU departments. Among these are mostly requests for documents, but there are also quite a few letters of thanks and praise which highlight several exceptional members of the GPD staff during the 1970s, 80s and 90s.
With eighty-five folders, the Subject files series is the largest of the three, and it takes up the entirety of Boxes 2, 3, and 4. The Subject series contains documents ranging from 1958 to 2005 and there is a diverse range of topics included in this section. From the 1990 guidelines for Americans with Disabilities to information about the Dean Candidates of 1996, the Subject files also contain many GPD statistics and information about the GPD in its early years.
The Undergraduate Library Services collection consists of 4.8 cubic feet of records that have been organized into two series: Administrative files and Historic and subject files. Files are arranged in alphabetical order within each series.
The Historic and subject files series contains 107 folders which span the years 1952 to 1996. Within this series there are several files regarding the development of the Undergraduate Library (UGL), both physically and administratively. There are, for example, blueprints, floor plans, correspondence and other documents which discuss possible renovations for UGL. There are also records that discuss issues, patron complaints, and potential improvements related to the UGL collection and services, or to the Halls of Residence Libraries (HRL). Also in the historic and subject series are files with information about programs hosted by UGL for students and their parents, such as library tours, term paper workshops, Independent learning programs, etc. One folder from this series ("Incident Reports, 1983-1989") has been restricted.
The Administrative files series spans the period from 1962 to 1998 and contains a wide range of topics from dissertation policies to equipment requests. The majority of these files are statistics or financial documents like budget reports, equipment requests, user/book counts, etc. One of the more unique folders in this series is the "UGLS Endowment, 1988-1990" file. This file contains programs and email correspondence about the Bob Knight Library Endowment which, with the help of Bob Knight, attempted to raise $300,000 for the Indiana University Bloomington Libraries over a three year period. Fourteen photographs, the majority of which are of IU sports coaches, have been transferred to the photograph collection. However, photocopies remain within the original file.
The Foster Quad Student Government records, 1961-1997, are organized into three series: Board of Governors; Foster Quad Center Store; and Subject files. The Board of Governors series is further arranged into seven subseries. Material dating from 2000 and later was printed from a CD  filed at the end of Box 3  containing files retrieved from a computer in the Foster Quad Student Government offices. Where the date of creation is not obvious in these documents themselves the last date on which they were modified has been recorded in pencil on the documents. There was little to no apparent original order among the folders at the beginning of processing, so an artificial order has been imposed. Original folder titles have been kept whenever possible.
Series one, Board of Governors, spans the years 1972 to 1992 and is further organized alphabetically into seven subseries. They are: Agendas and meeting minutes; Bills and resolutions; Community Council; Damage Board; Executive Council; Financial records; and Residence Halls Association.
The agendas and meeting minutes are arranged chronologically, while the bills are arranged chronologically by year with bills and resolutions arranged by bill number within each year. During processing, bills and resolutions which were attached to agendas and meeting minutes were removed and filed with the other bills and resolutions. Bills and resolutions from the RHA are located in the RHA subseries.
The Community Council subseries contains the meeting minutes from the Ashton, Briscoe, Collins, Forest, Read, Teter, Willkie and Wright Community Councils, as well as correspondence, handbooks, and meeting minutes from the Foster council. The Damage Board subseries, arranged alphabetically by folder title, includes agendas and meeting minutes, financial materials, policies, and damage report forms. The Executive Council subseries is also arranged alphabetically and contains agendas and meeting minutes, memorandums, and reports to the Executive Council and BOG. Financial records also includes meeting minutes and reports, in addition to ledger books, handbooks and budget proposals, all arranged alphabetically. Some budget information is located in the bills and resolutions subseries. RHA is the final subseries and like the three previous subseries is arranged alphabetically. It contains materials used and produced by the Foster Quad RHA Senator, including bills and resolutions, the RHA constitution and by-laws, President's Council meeting minutes, President's reports, and other reports.
Foster Quad Student Store is the second and smallest series and dates from 1985 to 1990. It is arranged alphabetically by folder title and contains materials such as balance sheets and income statements, Center Store Committee meeting minutes, communications, job descriptions and applications, and an operations manual. Materials relating to the other Center Stores and the entire Center Store system can be found in the BOG RHA subseries.
The last series is Subject files and is arranged alphabetically. It contains materials from Foster committees such as FADD, FILLC, REAC, as well as forms, communications and charts supporting the running of the Foster Student Government and the Foster Quad. These materials cover a range of subjects including advising and scheduling materials, clippings and historical information, FQ constitution and by-laws, election materials, Flamingo's (Foster's caf and grill), meeting/committee guidelines and parliamentary procedure, food service, orientation materials, quad policies, recycling and safety escort programs, Foster Radio  WFQR, and the quad weight room. Of note in the series is a petition protesting the IUSA resolution to support the Gulf War in 1991 and an environmental impact report of and other materials, which date from the mid 1980s, concerning the coal-burning campus power plant.
The Daniel Read Residence Center Community Council collection is organized into two series: Minutes and Administrative files. The collection spans the years 1975-2002 with the bulk of the material coming from the years 1975-1990. The folders, and the materials in them, are in their original order.
The Minutes series spans 1975-1987. There are records of minutes from each council meeting that was held during the given year. Each folder also includes a list of the council members for the given year.
The Administrative files series, 1983-2002, includes manuals related to Read Center and the residence halls, resident assistant manuals, as well as other general files.
This collection contains materials ranging from 1972 to 2010 that document the career of Mary Jo Weaver, a Professor in the Department of Religious Studies at Indiana University. This collection is divided into six series: Biographical records, Publications and writings, Presentations, Teaching materials, Audio/Visual materials, and Research notes, grants, and correspondence.
The first series, Biographical records, is arranged alphabetically and contains materials from 1973 to 2008. This series is comprised of materials that document Dr. Weaver's teaching, research, and professional activities throughout her career, including faculty summary reports for the classes she taught at IU, her degree from the University of Notre Dame, awards she won, statements about her work written both autobiographically by her and by others, and correspondence, a scrapbook, and a certificate related to her retirement from teaching at IU.
The Publications and writings series is arranged chronologically and spans the period from 1972 to 2010. It is further organized into three subseries: Monographs, Articles, and Miscellaneous writings. The Monographs subseries contains books and chapters of books written by or edited by Dr. Weaver. The Articles subseries contains articles written by Dr. Weaver that appeared in scholarly journals and religious publications. The Miscellaneous writings subseries contains Dr. Weaver's doctoral dissertation, in addition to editorials, pamphlets, and reviews written by Weaver, as well as reviews written about her publications.
The Presentations series is arranged chronologically and contains copies of lectures and sermons given by Dr. Weaver from 1974 to 2001. These presentations were given at churches, professional conferences, and at other universities, and often featured topics exploring liberal and conservative Catholic viewpoints as well as the relationship of women and the Church.
The Teaching materials series is arranged alphabetically by the name of the class and contains items from courses taught by Dr. Weaver from the 1970s to 2005 at IU and the Pontifical Josephinum, as well as adult education classes early in her career. These materials are comprised of syllabi, reading lists, exams, and lectures and lecture notes. Of note in this series are the three folders of materials related to Dr. Weaver's course on Star Trek and Religion.
The Audio/Visual materials series is a chronologically arranged collection of cassette tape recordings of Dr. Weaver's radio appearances and conference presentations from 1983 to 1996, as well as a VHS tape recording of Dr. Weaver from 1995 (stored separately; consult Archives staff for details). The audio tapes within this series include Dr. Weaver's various appearances on NPR and other radio programming and feature topics about issues including women and the Catholic Church as well as Pope John Paul II's 1995 visit to the United States. The videotape also discusses women and Catholicism.
The Research notes, grants, and correspondence series contains research notes on a variety of topics, reports and other correspondence related to grants awarded to Dr. Weaver, as well as correspondence about the publication of her book Introduction to Christianity. Additionally, general correspondence regarding Dr. Weaver's administrative duties at IU, her professional involvement in a variety of organizations, and her publications is included in this series.
The collection is organized into five series. The first series, Biographical material (1940-1996) consists of two sub-series: Education materials (1940-1956), and Subject files (1940-1996). The Education materials subseries contains files relating to Solt's studies at Iowa State Teachers College, Iowa State University and Columbia University. The Subject files contain Solt's personal materials such as clippings and artifacts from WWII, his vita, and awards received.
The second series is Teaching files (1947-1992), which contains class materials such as reading lists, lecture notes, and examination questions.
The Research and publications series (1941-1993) consists of two sub-series: Published material (1956-1993), and Manuscripts (1941-1990). Published material primarily consists of copies of Solt's articles published in various journals. Manuscripts contain rough and advanced drafts of Solt's published books, such as Church and State in Early Modern England, and Saints in Arms: Puritans and Democracy in Cromwell's Army, as well as manuscripts for numerous other articles and talks.
The fourth series, Correspondence (1941-1994) contains letters exchanged between Solt and his parents during WWII, correspondence with publishers, and other general correspondence with acquaintances. Correspondence related to Solt's activities in association with his roles at Indiana University, including communication with students and colleagues, is present as well; many of these files are restricted due to presence of sensitive student recommendations and discussions of academic performance.
Subject files (1643-1995, bulk 1944-1995), the final series, contains an extensive range of clippings, notes, topical documents, and reading lists related to Solt's research and professional activities. Many records relate to American and European history topics relevant to Solt's teaching and research. Of particular interest is an original manuscript of a seventeenth century sermon. Also included in this series are files relating to Solt's involvement with organizations within as well as outside of Indiana University (e.g. Bloomington Faculty Council, American Historical Association, Midwest Conference on British Studies). Other files in the series document Solt's involvement with study abroad programs, research and sabbatical trips, committees, and grants pursued.
Restricted files are listed where they would fall intellectually but are physically stored at the end of the collection.
The collection is organized into five series: Research (1946-1994), Publications, reviews and writings (1940-1993), Teaching files (1954-1969), Correspondence (1945-1989) and Subject files (1946-1994).
The Research series is further organized into six sub-series: ATLAS Project (1952-1976), Language files (1958-1962), Research index cards (undated), Spectrograph research (1952-1971), and Subject files (1960-1971).
The ATLAS Project sub-series consists of research notebooks used to collect information about various participants day-to-day use of language. The ATLAS project is a large collection of linguistic studies performed for the last 80 years around the United States by various scholars. Researchers of varying disciplinary backgrounds including Householder interviewed informants, listening for specific target information such as varying regional dialects and use of words. Householder specifically researched the geographic locations of Indiana, Kentucky and Illinois specifically known as LANCS. The ATLAS Project Sub-series remains in Householder's original order.
The Language files include materials such as newspapers in Azerbaijani, research notebooks, language worksheets including grammar and phonetics, dictionary descriptions and language transcripts. Languages include but are not limited to: Azerbaijani, Greek, Latin, and Quechua. Files are in alphabetical order.
The Research index cards sub-series totals eight small boxes of index cards pertaining to the Latin and Greek people, places, grammar and other miscellaneous topics. Two additional small boxes of index cards include an index of books alphabetized by author and place and miscellaneous information on the Greek Island of Delos. The boxes maintain Householder's original order as best as possible.
The Spectrograph research sub-series contains sound spectrograms (graphic representations of speech patterns and vocal influxes) and research materials related to the spectrographs. Files are in alphabetical order by folder heading.
The last Research sub-series is Subject files, which includes research on linguistics, Householder's Seymour Fellowship research on ancient doors and sills, concordances, and miscellaneous documents. Files are in alphabetical order by folder heading.
The Publications, reviews and writings series (1940-1993) is further organized into two sub-series: Publications and writings (1940-1993) and Reviews (1954-1987). Publications and writings include both published and unpublished materials written by Householder, including: "Variation in Early Greek," 1973, "Inference or Presupposition," 1977 and Spoken Azerbaijani I by Householder and Mansour Lotfi (published in 1965 under Basic Course in Azerbaijani). The Reviews sub-series contains articles reviewed by Householder.
The Teaching files (1954-1969) series is compiled of student work, exams, and teaching materials used for classes. A large portion of this series is restricted due to student grade information.
The Correspondence (1945-1989) series includes letters from Greece, Bobbs-Merrill Company (Indianapolis Book Publisher,) the Linguistic Society of America, Cambridge University Press, and correspondence between Householder and sociolinguist, anthropologist and folklorist Dell Hathaway Hymes.
The final series of Subject files (1946-1994) contains biographical materials, and materials relating to Householder affiliations and committee participation both inside and outside of the University.
This collection is comprised of records from 1940 to 2009 that represent the planning and administration of the annual Indiana University Writers' Conference.
The Writers' files series consists of correspondence between Conference staff and potential faculty spanning 1940-2004. The series is arranged alphabetically by surname. Many of the files hold regrets of the author but for those who did agree to serve conference faculty, the files hold correspondence detailing their plans. Notable authors with which staff corresponded include Margaret Atwood, Ray Bradbury, John Steinbeck, and IU alum Don Herold.
The Administrative files series, 1940-2009, is comprised of promotional items such as newsletters, press releases, posters, and brochures, as well as schedules of events, various correspondence, and lists of faculty members. Notable within this series is a detailed and thorough history of the Conference within the file titled "Writers' Conference History, 1993."
The collection consists primarily of administrative records, memoranda, and internal and external correspondence pertaining to departments within the university, committees, and matters of general university concern and a small portion of Logs of incoming correspondence dated between July and December of 1973. This collection primarily focuses on Carter's years as Chancellor and Vice President of Indiana University's Bloomington campus, between July 1969 and June 1975. The collection is organized into two series, Administrative subject files and Incoming correspondence logs.
This small collection of records date from Schuyler F. Otteson's tenure as chair of the Doctoral program in Business Administration, 1965-1971.
The first series, Correspondence (.1 cubic foot), spans the years 1965-1971 and is arranged alphabetically by subject or correspondent's surname. Overall, the correspondence is very general in nature and primarily consists of communications with department members or those in the same field at other universities, such as Robert C. Harding, Head of the Dept. of Business Administration at the University of Alaska.
The second series, Administrative files (.7 cubic feet), spans the years 1965-1971 and includes files on various subjects relating to the DBA chair position such as grants, enrollment, and committees. The folders are arranged alphabetically by subject.
John Ryan's Indiana University President Emeritus papers span the period from 1984 through 2011 and are organized into four series: Office files, Speeches, Correspondence, and Travel files.
The first series, Office files, span the period from 1944-2011 with the bulk of files created within the years 1988-2000. Substantial files pertain to NCAA activities and to Ryan's "Presidential Commission" duties. Other notable files include those on the International Council, Indiana University Foundation (IUF), his affiliation with the Alumni Association, the National Advisory Board on International Education Programs, and The Rement Trust.
The second series is made up of the speeches given by Dr. Ryan from 1984-2010. Included are his keynote address at the first annual meeting of Indiana Sister Cities, his speech for the International Association of Universities at the University of Combra (Portugal) and the University of Salamaca (Spain) in April of 1993, and his speech at a colloquium on the "Globalization of Higher Edcuation," in Istanbul, Turkey. Not all of the speeches in this series are directly related to University life or Indiana, Ryan also spoke at retirement dinners and memorial gatherings for friends and colleagues. The series also contains the speeches he made as Chancellor of the State University of New York, a position he held from 1996-1999.
The third series is Ryan's correspondence files written by John Ryan from 1988-2011. This series is organized in two sub-series: Chronological copies and Alpha copies. Chronological copies are those letters filed by date written, while Alpha files are copies of letters filed by the recipient's last name. Many of the letter consists of expression of thanks and gratitude to an individual who participated in a Ryan sponsored event. Some are congratulatory messages from Ryan to individuals who recently received some form of professional recognition. Other topics include Indiana football, international trips, and involvement in organizations such as the International Association of Universities.
Known as a president very much involved in IU system expansion, Ryan did a lot of work overseas to develop an international identity for the university. Series four contains files related to Dr. Ryan's travels to conferences and board meetings outside the United States, and spans the period from 1988-2006. Files within this series include those pertaining to the Hungarian accreditation committee advisory board, United Arab Emirates University, and the International Council within the Indiana University Foundation.
This collection is organized into two series, Indiana Club records, 1906-1978 and Alumni Association of the Indiana Club records, 1915-1927. Both series are arranged alphabetically by folder heading. Items of note include letters from Cora B. Hennel, a book on the history of the Indiana Club up until 1915, and membership rosters.
Photographs and scrapbooks about the club are stored separately; consult the Archives Photographs Curator for access information.
The records of the IU Retirees Association span the period from 1975-2019, and are organized into 3 series: Administrative files, Membership records, and Publications.
The Administrative files series consists of the general records of the organization, including ballots, financial records, meeting minutes and accompanying documents, and correspondence. The correspondence found within the collection includes letters to members of the association, lawyers, attorneys, and the heads of annuitants' associations at other universities, as well as other miscellaneous correspondence.
The Membership series includes lists of association members from the early 1980s through 2008 as well as board membership rosters from 1975-2007. The lists generally include addresses only, but occasionally phone numbers are listed.
The Publications series includes a brief history written around 2007 by long time member J. Robert Dodd as well as the monthly Newswatch newsletters created by the Association. The run of newsletters is not complete.
The papers of George List are arranged into seven series: Biographical, Correspondence and subject files, Publications, Research, Professional, Compositions, and Audiovisual. Most files are labeled and arranged based on the order in which they were received from List. His earlier papers are clearly labeled and dated, but materials from the late 1970s to 2008, the time period in which List was blind and depended upon others to organize his papers, are less clearly labeled, not uniform, and often undated. These materials are arranged chronologically after List's own organization based on their appropriate series.
This collection spans 1924-2008, with the bulk of the materials dating from 1958-1990. Materials are centered around List's early career as a music teacher and composing musician, as well as his academic career, including research on indigenous South American music, publications, and papers relating to his work with the Archives of Traditional Music. Also included are personal and professional correspondence, a full publication list, poetry and short stories by List, and original musical compositions. Works of note include full instrumentation for Marche O'Malley, a symphony composed by List and performed in 1947 and 1951, and articles "The Boundaries of Speech and Song" (Ethnomusicology 1961) and "The Reliability of Transcription" (Ethnomusicology 1974).
The Biographical series (1924-2006) is arranged alphabetically and contains items from List's career as a music teacher, published biographies, newspaper clippings, and publicity materials about his accomplishments. It also includes his curriculum vitae, tenure and retirement information, and a memoir written in 2004.
Correspondence and subject files (1933-2008) are combined and organized alphabetically. The Professional correspondence and subject files subseries contains correspondence with co-workers, colleagues, and institutions regarding List's professional career, as well as information about publishers, libraries, and museums affiliated with List. The Personal correspondence and subject files subseries consists of correspondence with friends, family, and colleagues that is more personal in nature and less related to List's career. The series is organized based on List's original order, resulting in some overlap between professional and personal correspondence.
The Publications series (1946-2005) includes drafts and revisions of book chapters and articles, unpublished manuscripts, and all articles published by List between 1946-1992. Also included are reviews written by List between 1960-1986, as well as reviews of his own works written by others. Materials are first arranged in the order created by List, with other materials arranged after them in chronological order. Items of note include the manuscripts for Cuentos Costeos, and Mozart and Tonality, both of which were never published.
Research files (1894, 1953-2006) mainly consist of List's research related to the music of the indigenous people of Ecuador, Colombia, and Venezuela, as well as his research from 1960 and 1963 about the Hopi tribe in the southwestern United States. Also included are lists of musical tracks and transcriptions used for various TV and radio productions with which List was involved, and materials used in lectures. Materials are organized as received from List. This series contains a set of numbered folders titled List-##, which largely consist of track listings for radio spots, television programs, and demo tapes. Also contained are two sets of index cards, the first which is numerically ordered contains supplementary notes which correspond to the numbered List folders in Boxes 11 and 17, the second contains citations for articles written by List as well as those he used for research purposes.
The Professional series (1942-2004) includes materials from conferences attended by List, correspondence with the Society for Ethnomusicology (SEM), teaching materials, faculty reports, and papers about grants and fellowships List received or applied for. Items are arranged as received from List, with conferences and correspondence listed chronologically and grants and fellowships organized alphabetically.
The Compositions series (1926-2008) consists of musical compositions composed by List for piano, organ, mixed chorus, flute, clarinet, oboe, viola, cello, and orchestra. Also included are compact discs of his music being performed, and a vinyl record of "Andante for Woodwind Quintette." Other works of note include Gadgets: A Commercial Opera, and a full score with orchestral parts for Marche O'Malley. Most of these works were never published and are undated. Pieces are arranged alphabetically.
Audiovisual materials (1941-1985) include a set of 108 cassette tape albums titled "Letters," 13 reels of open reel tape titled "Copies of cuentos from Colombia," an open reel tape of a WTIU Broadcast about student activities and boycott meetings from 1969, and an undated VHS tape titled Conjunto de Cumbio. Items are arranged according to List's labels.
All photographs and negatives were removed and are housed with the Indiana University Archives photo collection. Consult with the Archives Photographs Curator for further information.
The collection consists of two series: Administrative records and Correspondence files with the majority of the records dating from John Ryan's tenure as Indiana University President from 1971-1987. A small portion of the files within the collection contain items from before and after his presidency dating from 1963 through 1990.
The Administrative records (1963-1990) are arranged alphabetically by folder title and then chronologically.
The majority of the collection consists of files relating to the various administrative offices, academic departments and schools which comprise the university and include administrative correspondence, policies and annual reports. Schools and departments prominently featured include: College of Arts and Sciences; Division of Continuing Education; the Graduate School; the Schools of Law, Business and Music and Public and Environmental Affairs (SPEA); and School of Medicine and International Programs. These are often are listed under their own title ("History, Department of" or "Law, School of"). The Regional campuses of Indiana University are featured prominently in the collection and are filed under "regional campuses" followed by the specific campus. Likewise, other files relative to the various campus administrative departments include the Office of Affirmative Action, Alumni Association, and Athletics, Halls of Residence, and Safety Division.
Other sections of the collection relate to various associations and outside entities with which the University interacted. These include other universities such as Purdue University and the University of California. Files relating to the City of Bloomington and the State of Indiana include information relating to statewide programs, legislature, and correspondence with political figures such as mayors, governors and senators. Topics prominently featured include: the state budget, Indiana Legislative workshops and task forces and Higher Education Telecommunication Systems (IHETS). Others include the Association of American Universities (AAU); Association of College and University Business Officers (ACUBO); and Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges (ASULGC), the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the Indiana Commission for Higher Education, and the Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities (MUCIA).
Large portions of this series contain files on campus committees, including both student and administrative committees. Some which may be of interest include the Board of Aeons, Committee on Dedications and Ceremonies; Committee on Campus Beauty and the University Committee on Names.
Other portions of this series are more topical in nature. The "faculty" files contain information on governance, promotions, statistical data, collective bargaining, and retirement information while the "Ryan, John" files contain invitations, calendar and travel information, and miscellaneous other information about the president. Other subjects of interest include those on enrollment, campus budget, computers and computing, campus bus service and parking, and university reorganization.
The Correspondence files (1969-1987) are arranged chronologically and then alphabetically and divided into three sub-series: Mail Logs, Chronological files, and Alphabetical files. Each of these contain the outgoing correspondence from the President's Office, arranged wither chronologically or alphabetically by correspondent.
With materials dating from 1969 through 1989, the Indiana University Historic Preservation records consist of three separate series: Administrative files, the Cornelius O'Brien Lecture files and the Conference on Historic Preservation files. The Administrative files series (1968-1986) consists of annual reports, committee appointments, meetings minutes, agendas, and records pertaining to training programs in historic preservation.
The Cornelius O'Brien Lecture series (1968-1989) includes grant proposals for the Lilly Endowment and Irvin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation, committee appointments, and meeting minutes, as well as correspondence concerning speakers for the lecture series. There are print items about the New Harmony historic site and the Veraestau Indiana landmark.
Finally, the Conference on Historic Preservation series (1969-1989) includes files for the annual Historic Preservation Conferences. Records include correspondence written to and from the conference planning committee, news releases about the annual conferences, print brochures for the conferences, and proceedings for panel discussions. This series also includes evaluations and suggestions from conference attendees from the first two conferences held in 1969 and 1970.
This collection is arranged into four series: Organizations, Speeches files, Course and Research Files and Letters and personal files. All records were retained in the original order that they were received.
The Organizations series (1961-1993) is further organized into seven sub-series.
The first sub-series, Agency for International Development (1991-1993) contains records from John Ryan's tenure as the Senior Counsel to the Administrator for Management Training in Central and Eastern Europe. Records include related correspondence, reports and project proposals.
The second, Air University Board of Visitors (1974-1981), contains records primarily drawn from John Ryan's tenure as Chairman on the Air Force Institute of Technology Subcommittee from 1976-1981. It consists of meetings minutes, reports, publications and notes relating to program evaluation, curriculum development, personnel changes and accreditation.
The largest sub-series consists of American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) files (1961-1983) and contains records from Ryan's tenure as a member and President of the organization It includes committee and task force files, meeting and conference materials, program proposals and survey data, correspondence files.
The next largest sub-series consists of records relating to Ryan's tenure on the Indiana Bell Telephone Company Board of Directors (1973-1984), and includes meeting and committee materials and correspondence files.
The next two sub-series cover his tenure on the College of St. Thomas Board of Trustees (1972-1984) and on the Board of Directors for the State Life Insurance Company (1977-1985).
The General sub-series (1972-1986) consists of files relating to several other of Ryan's affiliations with which he was involved on a much smaller scale, such as the American Fletcher National Bank (AFNB), Corporate Community Council, Indiana Society for Public Administration (ISPA), National Academy of Public Administrators (NAPA), National Institution of Public Management.
The Speeches series (1958-1968) consist primarily of those speeches Ryan gave during his tenure as Vice President of Academic Affairs at Arizona State University from 1963-1965 and as Chancellor of the University of Massachusetts in Boston from 1965-1968, primarily at faculty and student convocations.
The Couse and Research Files series (1950-1988) consists of research and teaching materials dating primarily from his early career, prior to his appointment as Vice President and Chancellor for Regional Campuses and then President at IU. The series is divided into four separate sub-series which reflect roughly his tenure at 4 separate institutions. The Indiana University sub-series (1950-1988) includes course files documenting Ryan's pursuit of his M.A. and Ph.D. at Indiana University. These files consist primarily of lecture notes and his student papers and exams which are restricted. This sub-series also includes reports and related correspondence from his tenure as a Research Associate from 1955-1957 in an IU program which assisted in establishing the graduate public administration program at the University of Thammsat in Bangkok, Thailand, and as the Assistant Director of the Institute of Training for Public Service from 1957-1958.
The University of Wisconsin sub-series (1955-1963) consists of files from the period when Ryan taught political science and was Associate Director of the Bureau of Government. Files consist mostly of lecture and exam outlines as well as published reports from the Bureau of Government. Similarly, the Arizona State and University of Massachusetts sub-series includes lecture and course materials, as well as some student work.
The final series of Letters and Personal Files (1965-2011) consists primarily of correspondence and includes congratulatory letters upon Ryan's election to the Presidency of Indiana University.
The collection consists solely of the book of minutes from the Browning Society of Indiana University. All the minutes are handwritten by the various secretaries and acting secretaries throughout the years the club operated. The minutes include information on officer elections, rosters of active members, and other information about where meetings took place and who spoke at them. Most of the pages in the book are blank.
It is not known if the minutes in the book summarize every meeting the Society held. The span of the meeting minutes are from February 22, 1916 to November 17, 1921.
Spanning the years 1939-1987, the Martha Lipton papers are organized into three series: Biographical, Correspondence, and Professional files.
The Biographical series includes clippings of reviews of her performances and biographical interviews (undated, 1939-2004). There are a few clippings from the Bloomington Herald Times. The Indiana University Emeritus Club Honors file (1983) contains the certificate award naming her as a member.
The Correspondence series (1966-2006) includes primarily personal correspondence with her father and mother, and from current and former students in support of her nomination for distinguished professorship.
The Professional files series includes performance programs (1939-1987) of performances she played in various venues and countries. The Promotional Materials file (undated) contains posters promoting her talent and roles performed with reviewers' quotes from newspapers and magazines. The Stage Sets and Performance Notes (undated) is a small notebook with sketches of stage props performer's locations and movement directions on the sets of three productions; Samson, Tristan and Isolde, and The ballad of Baby Doe. Notes are written in French, German, and English.
The collection is organized into one series of administrative files dating from 1937-1958, and consists almost entirely of annual reports and meeting minutes documenting the activities of the committee. These records document the establishment of the Religious Workshop as an office for the Secretary and a headquarters for all church and religious groups, and of a Religious Colloquy consisting of university faculty and students interested in informal discussion about religion. It also documents the activities of the Student Religious Cabinet and the support of war-time programs, such as the University conference The Role of Religion in Our Democracy and the Victory for Brotherhood program which consisted of speakers and discussions aimed to promote understanding that was inter-racial, inter-religious and inter-nation.
The Collection consists of three series: Administrative files, Library, and Reference.
The Administrative files series (1959-1974) contains records related to the creation and development of the University of Islamabad. This series includes budget information, project reports, correspondence, information about faculty recruitment and program participants, and equipment purchases, including those for new computers for student and faculty use. Also included are Edward Durell Stone's contract and blueprints for the University of Islamabad campus. Items are arranged alphabetically by folder name.
The Library series (1967-1974) contains information about the creation and development of the University of Islamabad library. This series includes correspondence, book orders, and journal subscriptions. At the time of its construction, this library was considered the premiere library for research in the sciences in Pakistan. Items are arranged alphabetically by folder name.
The Reference series (1953-1973) contains materials about international programs sponsored by other American universities that were used as models or examples for the international programs administered by Indiana University. These materials may have been used by many of the international programs sponsored by Indiana University, and their use was not likely limited to this program. This series includes project reports, contracts, program booklets, brochures, and books. Folders are arranged alphabetically by country.
The collection into one series of Administrative files (1964-1971), and contains general files which include preliminary research and reports discussing the needs and goals of the Institute of Business Administration in Dacca, notes about similar programs in India, correspondence about the project, budget information, and project progress reports.
The Indiana University Assistant Vice-President for Administration records, 1973-1981, consists of records created and collected during the tenure of Herbert Glenn Ludlow, who served in this capacity from 1975-1981. The collection is organized into three series: Correspondence, Committee files, and Reports.
The Correspondence series includes both incoming and outgoing correspondence from Ludlow's office. It includes material dating from 1974 to 1981. He maintained both general correspondence files and separate files for the individuals with whom he communicated most often. This distinction has been maintained in the arrangement, with general files placed before the more specific author/recipient files. The general correspondence files are arranged chronologically, and the author files alphabetically. Prominent subjects and correspondents include the IU Press, David W. Kramer (University Director of Faculty Records Systems), and the university's Affirmative Action Officer, Frances Rhome.
The Committees files series consists of records on IU committees Ludlow served on in his capacity as Assistant Vice President for Administration. Series dates from 1973 to 1981, and is arranged alphabetically. Prominent committees include the Scholarship and Financial Aid Committee and the Vocational Education Committee. Files hold agendas, minutes, correspondence between members, and committee reports.
The Reports series spans the period from 1974 to 1979. It includes reports that Ludlow wrote during his tenure as Vice-President. Additionally, this series also includes materials which he assembled for reports issued by University President John Ryan. The folders in the Reports series are arranged alphabetically.
The collection is organized in a single series of Administrative files which prominently features the minutes of the organization spanning the period from 1945 to 1983. In addition to the minutes there are also the Constitution and By-Laws, president's files, award forms, a limited number of manuals, membership books, and a small collection of songs. Lastly, the collection contains some correspondence of the organization along with correspondence from other chapters of Alpha Kappa Psi.
The Camilla Williams papers span the years 1947-2010. The collection is organized into three series: Biographical, Clippings and scrapbooks, and Professional files.
The Biographical series (1990-2010) includes plaques of appreciation and the Indiana University President's Medal of Excellence and certificate. It also includes an undated handwritten draft excerpt of what appears to be her autobiography.
The Clippings and scrapbook (1947-1997) series is arranged chronologically by year. The clippings files include personal interviews, reviews of operas performed at Indiana University and of the performances of former students. The scrapbooks include photographs of performances and other social functions Camilla attended. There are letters, clippings, and other mementos such as programs and ticket stubs from the New York Metropolitan Opera. Also included is an undated scrapbook she compiled covering the career of her close colleague from Brooklyn, John Motley.
Arranged alphabetically by folder heading, the Professional files series (1970-1997) includes programs of opera performances at Indiana University as well as posters featuring Williams' performance in IU's Cantatas. Correspondence includes personal letters and cards from friends, students and colleagues. Teaching materials include student voice rehearsal schedules as well as signs she made and posted for procedures in the studios. Undated audio recordings include one compact disk recording of a recital by Williams with her accompanist Boris Bazala, as well as a cassette tape recording labeled Tribute to Marian Anderson.
The Dean's Office Graduate Library School records span the years 1961-1992 and consist largely of the files of Bernard M. Fry, who was Dean from 1967-1980. There are five series in the collection including Administrative records, Committee files, Conferences and Panels, Correspondence, and Research and Study Proposals.
The Administrative records (1961-1986) consists of files related to Fry's responsibilities as Dean of the Library School and is divided into two sub-series. The General sub-series (1961-1986) includes information concerning accreditation, budget planning, and general administrative activities relating to the functions of the Library School. The Long Range Planning subseries (1969-1980) contains material related to the long range planning process for the School.
The Committees series (1965-1985) contains materials related to committees on which Fry served in his capacity as Dean of the Library School, such as the Accreditation Committee, the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, and the Continuing Education Committee.
The third series, Conferences and panels (1970-1981), contains materials related to conferences and panels which Fry either attended or served on in his capacity as Dean of the Library School and is divided into two separate sub-series. The General sub-series (1970-1981) contains information relating to assorted conferences, including the American Library Association Council Annual Conference, and the Copyright Conference. The ERIC Materials (1970-1973) subseries, contains information specifically concerning panels run by the Education and Resource Information Center (ERIC).
The fourth series, Correspondence (1972-1992), consists of correspondence relating to Fry's role as Dean of the Library School. Noteworthy correspondents include Herb White and Martin M. Cummings. It should be noted that related correspondence to Fry's tenure as dean can also be found in his personal papers (C166).
The last series, Research and study proposals (1966-1982), contains materials about various research and study proposals and information related to projects involving the Department of Education and Library School and is further divided into three series. The General subseries (1966-1982) includes survey questionnaires for journal publications and research proposals, as well as material relating to research and articles written under the direction of the Graduate Library School. The subseries ERIC Research (1969-1977) consists of research conducted by Library Graduate School faculty, and the National Science Foundation records (1972-1978) consists of research materials related to studies conducted by the Research Center for Library and Information Science for the NSF. The subseries Student Dissertation and Research Proposals (1972-1978) consists of dissertations and proposals submitted to Dean Fry by IU students.
The materials found in the James H. Madison papers consist of written publications, research material, records related to both his professorial duties as a professor at Indiana University and his professional activities outside of IU, and correspondence. The collections covers Madison's early career up through the mid-2000s.
The Writings and research Series (1901-2010) consists of Madison's books, articles and book reviews, and the research notes and drafts related to Madison's published works. The series is divided into two subseries: Books and Articles and book reviews. Book materials are grouped chronologically by the date of publication of the book, and within the subseries materials related to each book are organized alphabetically. The articles and book reviews are arranged chronologically.
The Indiana University series (1968-2011) consists of materials related to Madison's roles and duties in his various professorial positions during his time at IU, beginning as an Assistant Professor and culminating as Professor Emeritus. The General subseries contains general information about the history department, Madison's professional tasks, and a small amount concerning his doctoral degree. The Teaching materials subseries consists of a large selection of class syllabi as well as a few exams. The IU Committees subseries contains materials related to a variety of academic committees, such as the Budget Policy Committee, the COAS (College of Arts and Sciences) Task Force on Teaching, and the Liberal Arts and Management Program (LAMP).
The Outside professional service series (1974-2005) consists of materials related to Madison's professional activities outside of Indiana University. These activities include participation in local and state committees and events. These include the Organization of American Historians, the Midwestern Regional History and Culture Series, Connor Prairie, and Indiana Historical Society activities.
The Correspondence series (1973-2001) contains written correspondence between Madison, colleagues, historians, and publishers.
The collection is organized into a single series of subject files that include Marina Svetlova's personal and professional correspondence, news clippings, and scrapbooks. There are a good deal of materials written in Italian, including a journal/notebook and other loose journal entries. Her papers also include small collections of undated postcards and various performance programs that feature Svetlova as a primary performer or director, and a set of three bound scrapbooks dating from 1958-1961 and undated, which contain news clippings (some from European papers), letters/correspondence, drawings of ballet/choreography, and a "Manager's National Concert and Artist Corporation Artist Catalog" from 1962-1963.
This collection is organized into three series: Biographical, Clippings, and Program Booklets.
The Biographical series, 1948-2012 includes biographical information about Pressler's personal and professional life, and includes materials relating to the Beaux Arts Trio, biographies, William Brown's manuscript, correspondence organized alphabetically, Indiana University related materials, itineraries, materials about mentored students organized alphabetically, materials relating to musical competitions, notes and mementos, performance tickets, records on his teaching, and miscellaneous, unknown items. Oversize materials are available. Photographs were moved from this series to the IU Photograph Collection.
The Clippings series, 1946-2014 includes newspaper, periodical, and inkjet printed clippings related to both Menahem Pressler and the Beaux Arts Trio. This series is organized by decade.
The Program booklets series, 1939-2012 is further organized into two sub-series: Menahem Pressler and the Beaux Arts Trio. The Menahem Pressler sub-series, 1939-2012 contains program booklets that pertain to Pressler himself. This sub-series is organized by year. The Beaux Arts Trio sub-series, 1950-2009 contains program booklets that pertain to the classical music trio that Pressler co-founded in 1955, the Beaux Arts Trio. This sub-series is organized by year.
The collection is organized into a single series of Administrative files (1960-1986), which consists of records dating from Wilmer Baatz's tenure as Assistant Director of the IU Libraries. It contains information concerning library department committee meetings, correspondence with colleagues, information on various academic departments, and general files related to the management of the library system.
This record group consists of a single series, Publications, from the period 1944-2001, and includes the publications Library Newsletter and Library Notes.
The collection consists entirely of letters written by Bulliet to fiancee Katherine Adams while he was a student at Indiana University. The letters span the period from October of 1902 through December of 1904. Many of the letters include clippings of Bulliet's poems that were published in the Daily Student, the IU student newspaper, as well as other items such as a ribbon (or badge) from a "Mock Democratic Election," and a card from a men's clothing company. Much of what Bulliet wrote was about everyday life and life at the University.
Besides coursework, campus visitors and events, Bulliet wrote of his experiences with different student elections, noting that certain fraternities on campus, as well as the sophomore class at the time he was a freshmen, tried to sabotage elections. In one of his letters, he wrote about his apprehension in running for Editor-in-Chief of the Daily Student, saying that he was nominated and did not want to run. Campus sporting events and pranks were other topics about which Bulliet wrote. He noted the brutality of football games and writes regularly about the strife and scraps between the freshmen and sophomore classes, including "The Big Freshmen/Sophomore Scrap" that took place February 23, 1904, in which the freshmen president was kidnapped by sophomores.
This collection houses Diamant's academic contributions. The main series of Teaching files (1950-1996) include his teaching and class material, student correspondence, the second contains his publications (1954-2010). The files in the Student correspondence sub-series includes a large number of recommendation letters. As such, the sub-series is closed but may be made available with advance notice so that the Archivist may review the specific files requested.
This collection spans the time period between 1950 and 2010 (when his memoir was published). Other related materials containing information regarding his personal life can be found in the Lilly Library (Diamant mss).
The Biographical series, 1929-1957, contain personal documents and materials gathered by Carmack, mostly from his high school and college years as well as an address book.
The Correspondence series, 1928-2001, is arranged primarily chronologically but also contains folders of correspondence with a single person or a single topic. The letters consist primarily of Carmack's professional correspondence with colleagues at IU and at other universities. There is, however, personal correspondence interfiled, especially pre-1940, when Carmack's family wrote frequently during his college years.
The Research series, 1920-2007, forms the bulk of the collection. Dr. Carmack worked at several private laboratories - including Los Alamos and DuPont - conducting research and doing consulting work. Files related to that research and his findings are located in this series. Also present are extensive notes and materials related to his personal investigation of the Willgerodt reaction, lithospermum ruderale, and other organic chemistry research. Carmack's notes and finished article about George Hale are included in the collection. This series also contains notes from his involvement in professional organizations and various committees he served on while at Indiana University. There is also a 1988 IU name badge as well as two audio cassette tapes from a 1977 lecture in the series.
The Teaching series, 1936-1993, contains two subseries, Student Work, 1942-1965 and Lecture Notes, 1936-1978. The Student Work contains research and laboratory notebooks from his students, both undergraduate and graduate. At this time the sub-series is closed but may be made available with advance notice so that the Archivist may review the specific files requested. Dr. Carmack retained most of his teaching and lecture notes, which include blank quizzes, tests, handouts, and other related material. Where possible, the material is arranged by course number and name.
This collection is organized into three series: Exhibition publicity (1990-2015, undated), Audio/Visual Materials (1970-2012, undated), and Slides (1983-2005, undated).
Materials in the Exhibition publicity series include post cards, calendars, oversize posters, and pamphlets describing exhibitions at the Grunwald Gallery of Art; they are organized chronologically first by decade, then by year. Records in the Audio/Visual Materials series include audio-cassettes, video-cassettes, and DVDs of lectures, exhibitions, and interviews related to the Grunwald Gallery of Art. Materials in the Slides series include slides and prints of slides, all relating to exhibitions held at the Grunwald Gallery of Art.
The Abrell papers are organized into four series: Biographical, Correspondence, Photographs, and Souvenirs.
The Biographical series (1922-1999) contains documents related to Abrell's work as a War Department civilian employee, journals she kept while in Germany, a biography of one of her friends, and certificates related to Abrell's academic and community involvement accomplishments. The files are arranged alphabetically by folder titles.
The Correspondence series (1944-1953) contains letters, postcards, cards, and telegrams that were exchanged during Abrell's year spent in Frankfurt, Germany. The bulk of the letters are between Abrell and her mother. The files are arranged by letters sent to Faye C. Abrell and letters from Faye C. Abrell to friends and family. The letters are further arranged within folders chronologically.
The Photographs series (1946-1947) contains photographs taken by Abrell during 1946-1947 and begin with photographs taken on the boat trip to Europe and ending with photographs from the boat trip back to America. Abrell also created several scrapbooks of her photographs, tickets, and souvenirs collected while teaching and travelling in Europe. Within the largest scrapbook Abrell kept, she pressed a flower she claims she took from a bouquet on Hitler's table and a piece of broken marble from his mantelpiece. Nearly every photograph has been labeled with details of the location, date, and names of individuals as described by Abrell. The photographs are arranged alphabetically by locations as labeled by Abrell.
The Souvenirs series (1944-1990) contains blank postcards, pamphlets from the Nuremburg Trials, a German-English/English-German Dictionary, restaurant menus, play billets, maps of Germany, and other miscellaneous pamphlets and articles collected during Abrell's year in Frankfurt, Germany. The files are arranged alphabetically by locations as labeled by Abrell.
The collection is comprised of four scrapbooks. Each details one year of Joan's life at Indiana University, 1945-1949. The bulk of the materials include newspaper clippings, programs from social and sporting events, notes and cards from family and friends, meeting notices, punch cards, matchbooks (most unused), flowers, and napkins and decorations from dances and other events. The majority of football programs 1945-1949 are included. Events attended include ones hosted by Acacia Fraternity, Indiana University Theatre, Indiana University Band and other music ensembles, events at the Indiana University Auditorium, and others. The focus of collection was social, although some communication with professors and academic award certificates are also included. Most items are captioned, identifying the item, its provenance, and any associated people or anecdotes. There are also some captions whose items have come detached and are no longer in the scrapbooks.
The records of the Indiana University Chemistry Library span the years 1855-2011; the bulk of the collection is concentrated in the years from 1979-2002. Records are organized into two series, Administrative files and Subject files. Within both series, files are organized alphabetically by folder heading.
Contained within the Administrative files are such subjects as the ongoing maintenance of the library's journals and serials, including correspondence and memos on renewals and cancellations. Represented within this topic are memos, e-mails, letter correspondence, and printed lists of journals collected by the Chemistry Library. In addition, there are reports reflecting the then-current status of library holdings and issues. Other topics include past upgrades and remodeling of the library facilities, including proposed expansions, materials measurements, floor plans, remodeling drawings, and cost estimates. These topics are represented in part through correspondence, internal memos, e-mail, and various notes. Another subject within the series concerns materials for the Chemical Information Center (CIC), an information clearinghouse maintained by the Chemistry Library at that time. Included are annual reports on the status of the CIC and materials describing the history of the Center. Also included in the series are general annual library reports for the Chemistry Library, materials concerning other chemistry information centers affiliated with Indiana University, and correspondence/ memos on the status and changes to the facilities at the Chemistry Library. There are also posters explaining how to use to the Clearinghouse for Chemical Information Instructional Materials (CCIIM). Finally, the series includes materials relating to the history of the Chemistry Library, including photographs, handbooks, notes, memos, and chronologies of the library's past development.
The next series, Subject files, features a variety of materials relating to the general development of chemistry as a science and as a profession. Many of the files are sourced from the historical surveys of chemistry taught through the department in the past. Included in the series are journal and magazine clippings, submitted student reports, handwritten notecards, memos, course syllabi, copies of exams, article reprints, and copies of original source documents.
This collection consists of papers written by students at the Folklore Institute at Indiana University, Bloomington mostly from the 1960s through the early 1980s The files are arranged in numerical order (which was originally assigned by the Folklore Archive at the time of accessioning), which is also roughly chronological order. Accompanying materials such as cassette tapes are housed separately. There are a number of different subjects represented including, but not limited to, architecture, craft, tombstones & epitaphs, quilting, furniture, instrument making, family traditions and recipes, fashion, and food ways. Many of these papers consist of interviews with artisans and craftsmen, family members, or owners of the locations being researched. One such paper includes an account by the owner of a house near Elizabethtown Indiana which was part of the Underground Railroad used by escaped enslaved people going north to Canada during the Civil War. For those interested in more religious studies, there is a paper on food and religious practices of the Russian Orthodox Church during the week of Easter. There are also a fair number of papers written on local tombstones and instrument makers. Apple doll making and water witching seem to have been popular subjects in the sixties and seventies.
A number of the locations and craftsmen discussed are local or in close proximity to Bloomington, including a paper on the Rose Well House which is a popular fixture of legend in IU campus lore.
Most papers include samples or photographs related to the paper's subject. One paper written on coalmining in Sullivan County Indiana has a particularly interesting set of photos of coal miners and the coal mining complex. Other papers contain clippings from magazines, maps, quilt square samples, illustrations, and similar objects -- one paper written on the Kennedy family, builders of covered bridges in Indiana, has a beautiful set of covered bridge illustrations and diagrams.
This collection consists of maps, audio recordings, news reports, advertisements, committee notes, photographs, and story transcripts for the campus ghost walks hosted by the Indiana University Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology.
The Administrative Files series (1951-2008) includes materials relating to the coordination of the annual event such as committee notes, correspondence, walking guides, and publicity material, and event photographs. This series also includes a scrapbook documenting the walks from 2002-2005.
The Ghost legends series (1911-2004) contains the collected legends drawn from the Folklore Institute archives that were used to create the content of the walks. Local ghost legends center on campus spaces as well as local Bloomington establishments such as the Porticos Restaurant. Examples of campus ghost legends include those of the Health Center, Well House, the sorority Zeta Beta Tau, and Eigenmann Hall.
Collection consists of one scrapbook from 1951-1953.
The bulk of the collection consists of two bound volumes of letters from Helen D. Hopkins to her family, beginning shortly before her entrance as a freshman to Indiana University and end at the time of her commencement in 1918. During this period, Helen wrote home multiple times a week predominately to her mother Clara, but occasionally also her brother Bob (Robert O. Hopkins). Note that sections of the correspondence were bound out of order.
Early letters report on joining to the Pi Beta Phi (the Pi Phi's as she calls the sorority) and being in the library during freshman-sophomore scraps when the men were called outside and their hair forcibly cut. What we would describe as a modern-day foodie, in nearly every letter Helen reports on her meals (she seemed to have a particular fondness for potatoes and desserts), and vehemently thanks her mother for her weekly care packages of candies, cookies, bread, and wieners from home. In others she describes the contents of her friend's packages from home, including one which included "a whole fried chicken and a fruit cake." Other letters mention campus serenades, attending athletics events and dances, joining the Women's League and YWCA, late night visits to the Book Nook for wieners and burgers to hear Hoagie Carmichael play, hiking to Arbutus hill, going to the Gentry Brothers Circus, student pranks such as the night she came home to a bed filled with salt, as well as campus issues such as coal shortages, and the bad taste of the drinking water. In April 1917, she also shares the details of an incident involving a student of Russian descent (Mr. Edler) who "when he was four years old, the Russian government killed his father and mother, and ever since them he has been against the government. The authorities here found his room which he had always kept locked; and found there all sorts of different mechanisms that they think he was trying to make infernal machines of. He says he was only experimenting on watches.I don't know where they've sent him, but he's left here."
An exceptional student, Helen writes extensively about her studies in Latin and Greek as well as her relationships with members of the faculty such as Lillian Gay Berry (Latin), Will Hale (English), and Cora Hennel (Mathematics). She also acknowledges her election to the honorary society Phi Beta Kappa as one of two female students along with Lorena Degner.
On a national level she discusses the 1916 presidential election and in the lead up to World War I she discusses military training on campus. On March 7, 1917, she describes a campus-wide meeting of all the students and faculty where "it was voted to send a telegram to [President] Wilson expressing the faith of the Indiana students in him and the promise of loyalty to the country. President Bryan gave most wonderful talk, and several others of the faculty spoke." Following the official declaration of war, she reports on her volunteer work with the Red Cross knitting sweaters for soldiers overseas, female students hastily marrying before their boyfriends enlisted, the dwindling numbers of male students on campus, and the back to the farm movement, which allowed students from farming families to return home to help with the crops while still earning course credit. She also alludes to the fact that Theodore Roosevelt would be their wartime commencement speaker.
The remainder of the collection consists of the few items that were tucked into the pages of the bound volumes of correspondence, biographical clippings, a photograph of Helen at the age of 90, her commencement program, and a few cards from her grandchildren from the 1990s.
The Indiana University Department of Folklore and Ethnomusicology records include administrative files, subject files, correspondence, files and audio recordings of the Special Projects unit, grant and budget information, and conference files produced by the department from 1942 through 2010. The collection is organized into three series: Folklore Institute, Ethnomusicology Institute, and Special Projects.
The Folklore Institute series is further organized into three subseries: Administrative files (1942-2007), General subject files (1965-2002), and Individual subject files (1965-2007). Administrative files contains materials pertaining to the day-to-day activities of the Folklore Institute including faculty meeting minutes, curriculum information, newsletters, teaching resources, departmental reviews, publicity materials, and histories of the department. Both subject files subseries contain correspondence, clippings, promotional materials, and other documents. Files in the General subject files subseries pertain primarily to folklore societies, publishers, and other organizations, while Individual subject files mainly contain material related to IU faculty, staff, students, visiting professors and speakers, and other members of the folklore field. Each subseries is organized alphabetically.
The Ethnomusicology Institute series (1973-2008), contains materials relating to Archives of Traditional Music grants, ethnomusicology faculty meetings, publications, brochures, correspondence, courses, student information, and faculty service. The series is organized alphabetically by folder heading.
The Special Projects (1944-2010) series contains materials from the Special Projects unit of the IU Folklore Department. The Special Projects unit of the Folklore Department was created in 1979 with the goal of obtaining external funding for publications, conferences, videos, research, and outreach activities. The Special Projects series has four subseries: General Project Files, Grant Proposals and Budget Information, Conferences and Colloquia, and Public Initiatives.
The General Project Files (1944-2010) subseries is arranged alphabetically and contains miscellaneous Special Project unit records including files related to the Folklore Archives Motif Index Computer Project, the Richard M. Dorson Award for Outstanding Papers in Folklore, the annual Ghost Walk, and Traditional Arts Indiana (TAI).
The Grants and Budget Information (1975-2005) subseries houses records of the Special Projects Unit's funded and unfunded project proposals to the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Smithsonian, and the Indiana Humanities Council. The subseries includes correspondence, budget breakdowns, departmental memos, instructions for the application process, and copies of the official proposals. Project proposals included in this subseries relate to research grants, community programming, assisting folklore repositories on campus, and funding folklore publications at IU.
The Conferences and Colloquia (1979-2017) subseries is arranged chronologically to replicate the conference-planning process and grouped together within the series. Many materials in this subseries relate to the conferences "The Kalevala, The Comparative Method and Beyond: A Symposium of American and Finnish Folklore," held in the Indiana University Memorial Union from September 25-28, 1985, and "Cultural Basics: Educating with the Grain," a cross-disciplinary conference in folklore and history-making in the classroom that took place on June 19-20, 1992.
The Public Initiatives (1967-2007) subseries contains records related to a joint residency program between Indiana University and the American Folklore Society, the annual folklore summer field school, the Tales On-Line (TOL) project, service-learning folklore courses, the Smithsonian Festival of American Folklife, oral history interviews on audiocassettes and U-matics, and teaching materials for local elementary schools. The subseries is organized alphabetically.
This collection contains recipes and related items found at the former home of Herman B Wells in Bloomington, Indiana. The recipes consist of newspapers and magazine clippings, printed recipe cards, and handwritten recipes. They are mostly for desserts and appetizers but also a number of main and side dishes, salads, and condiments. Of special interest are handwritten recipes and annotated recipes that include comments about Wells' tastes and references to cook Matilda "Tillie" Hopkins.
The collection also includes undated ephemera such as shopping lists, receipts, notes, and menus that were stored with the recipes. Also present are 2 photographs of women formerly employed at the house and the recipe boxes that originally contained the other materials in the collection.
The IUHPFL collection spans the years 1963-2017 and documents the office's work providing foreign language instruction and study abroad opportunities for high school students from the state of Indiana. Items in the collection document the administrative activities of the office itself, the teaching and instructional materials utilized in the program, and the personal activities and experiences of the student participants.
Materials in at least four of the program's languages of instruction are featured, as well as items from at least fourteen different program sites. Particularly well-represented are the sites in Brest, Saint-Brieuc, and Saumur, France, as well as those in Ciudad Real, Len, and Oviedo, Spain. Types of materials include handbooks, evaluation and site reports, brochures, promotional posters, clippings from foreign newspapers about the program, group photographs, and scrapbooks. Other noteworthy items include instruction booklets with lessons in grammar, culture, and phonetics used at the program sites; end-of-session student projects; and scrapbooks and ephemera related to the Krefeld program.
This collection contains Indiana University May Festival programs dating from 1905 through 1928. The collection also includes an 1897 program for a May Music Festival and a 1926 ticket to the "Dance Drama" program of the May Festival.
This collection consists of several letters and postcards that Edna Hatfield Edmondson wrote to Frank R. Elliott, Director of Publicity at Indiana University, while she was on a trip to Japan with the Indiana University baseball team in April-May 1922. The majority of Edmondson's letters are descriptions of the games that IU played against the Waseda University team. She typically provided a brief overview of the game, a list of plays for each inning, and clippings from the English-language Japan Advertiser.
Other letters describe the team's arrival in Japan, including going through customs and attending a banquet at Waseda University; the IU team members' reactions to an earthquake that occurred on April 29 or 30, 1922; and meeting with Japanese IU alumni in Tokyo. Edmondson's April 22 letter includes photo postcards of the Waseda, Keio, and IU baseball teams.
This collection consists of letters that Daniel W. Biddle wrote to his parents and to his friend Janie Bartee during his attendance at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana from 1893-1895. The letters document Biddle's social and academic life at IU through details on his interactions with his roommates, classmates, and professors; his studies, which encompassed geometry, algebra, Latin, rhetoric, literature, physics, geology, and psychology, and laboratory work; events on campus and in the Bloomington community, including a lecture by Jane Addams, the dedication of Kirkwood Hall, the 1895 Freshman-Sophomore "class scrap", and a student protest supporting the removal of IU to Indianapolis (the "removal question").
This collection spans the years 1960-2009 and documents folklist and professor Sandra K. Dolby's scholarly activities including research, publications, and presentations on tall tales, proverbs, and other folklore topics; grant activities; teaching and student advising; and professional service. The bulk of the collection originates from Dolby's time as a faculty member in the Indiana University Folklore Institute and later the Department of Folklore.
Types of material held in the collection include notes, publications and drafts, correspondence, grant applications, syllabi and lesson plans, committee files, letters of recommendation, and audiovisual material.
The collection is arranged into five series: Biographical materials; Publications, presentations, and workshops; Teaching; Grant applications and related research materials; and Service.
This collection contains the personal papers of Charlie Nelms in seven series.
The Speeches series spans 1967-2016 and is arranged chronologically. It includes transcripts, notes, and documents from Nelms' public speaking engagements. This includes Nelms' keynote speeches at community events and institutions, churches and charities, and professional conferences. Many of these speeches took place in the communities surrounding universities where Nelms worked.
The Indiana University East series spans 1987-1995 and is arranged alphabetically. This series contains files from Nelms' tenure as Chancellor and Professor of Education at IU East in Richmond, Indiana. This includes official reports, correspondence, subject files, mementos, and media clippings. Relevant topics include enrollment strategies for black students, diversity, and multiculturalism. This series also includes a photo album documenting a 1991 trip Nelms made to Koryo Junior High School in Kushiro, Hokkaido, Japan.
The Indiana University Bloomington series spans 1992-2007 and is arranged alphabetically. This series contains files from Nelms' tenure as Vice President for Institutional Development and Student Affairs at IU. It includes correspondence, reports, and subject files. Relevant topics include the Office of Sustainability 20/20 Plan, Neal-Marshall Black Cultural Center, and student retention and diversity.
The Other Institutions series spans 1973-2016 and is arranged alphabetically. It covers Nelms' professional engagement with other, mostly academic, institutions. Contents include files from Nelms' tenure at Indiana University Northwest, Sinclair Community College, as well as his graduate education at Indiana University. Of special interest are files from Nelms' tenure as Chancellor at North Carolina Central University. The series also includes issues of NCCU Now, a North Carolina Central University publication.
The Professional Activities series spans 1981-2017 and is arranged alphabetically. This series covers Nelms' professional activities with regional and national organizations, commissions, and projects. Files include awards, event programs, correspondence, notes and remarks, and publications. Significant portions of this series concern Nelms' work with historically black colleges and universities (HBCU's). Significant organizations include the American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU), American Council on Education (ACE), and Middle States Association (MSA).
The Personal series spans 1971-2016 and is arranged chronologically. This series contains files related to Nelms' educational background, family, and research. It includes family correspondence, publications, mementos such as buttons and badges, and media clippings. Some of the publications in this series are authored by Nelms. One box in this series contains Nelms' planners and contacts, 1979-1996.
The Audiovisual series contains audiovisual material spanning 1979-2011 and is arranged alphabetically by title. This includes videotapes, DVDs, audio cassettes, and one vinyl 45 RPM record. Titles include lectures and educational programs.
This collection contains correspondence, Board of Directors meeting notes and minutes, executive council booklets, I Association membership, and event flyers and planning information from 1994-2010 (bulk 1996-2009). Frequent correspondents include Karl Zacker (IUAA staff member and Executive Director of the I Association (2006-2013) and Tom Bolyard (I-Men's Association Board Member, Executive Secretary (1998-2004) and Executive Director (2005-2006)).
This collection consists of newsletters under two names: Gay News (October 1979-September 1980) and Lesbian and Gay News (April 1981-September/October 1981). Both functioned as the official publication of the Bloomington Gay Alliance/Bloomington Gay and Lesbian Alliance. Issues included news of the organizations, such as their history, structural changes, and elections. Stories also consisted of organizing information to make readers aware of the various social and activist subgroups throughout the town, as well as local businesses that were open to LGBTQ clientele, and general news about the state of politics at the local regional and national levels.
This collection consists of one series of newsletters and flyers. The community center's newsletter New Horizons contains announcements of the center's activities, the related activities of other groups such as the Bloomington Gay Alliance, upcoming events, and local and regional events, and activities of interest to the Bloomington LGBTQ+ community. Flyers largely served as advertisements for the center.
This collection consists of one series of newsletters dating between 1980-1984. Articles in the newsletter cover recent and upcoming events, activism, and other news of interest. There is also a significant component of personal expression, as issues often contained poetry, editorials, art, and cartoons, and stories from the community. Reflecting that community, topics were sometimes more focused on activism, such as announcements of the annual Gay Awareness Conference, or protest events. At other times they were more focused on spiritual life, such as prayers that were published. Other times these concerns were combined, such as in editorials or poems that discuss the opinions and experiences of individuals trying to reconcile their faith and their sexual or gender orientation.
The Lynn M. Jamieson papers documents the research and activities of Lynn Jamieson, who was a member of the Indiana University Department of Recreation, Park, and Tourism Studies (now the Department of Heath and Wellness Design) from 1993 until 2018. It contains two series: International Research and Professional Activity.The International Research series represents Jamieson's research on Sport for All policies, and contains materials spanning 1977 to 2019, with the bulk of the material from 1995 to 2005. It is organized alphabetically into sub-series of ruling bodies, followed by an Individual Files sub-series. Where applicable, sub-series contain front materials files (case documentation, field notes, and transcripts) based upon Jamieson's original file organization and are arranged alphabetically following those files. This series contains materials accumulated by Jamieson in her research on international sport and leisure policy and consists of promotional material (such as pamphlets, booklets, and posters), policy documentation, research on or originating in the area, and transcripts of Jamieson's research interviews.The Professional Activity series contains materials from 1958 to 2013. It is organized alphabetically, with other level groupings where appropriate. This series contains administrative files on her research, intermixed materials from her education and her teaching career.

