The Smith-Western Company Photographs of Oregon State College contain images of Oregon State College campus buildings and sorority and fraternity houses. These images were likely printed as post cards and sold in the College bookstore. Smith-Western Company was established in 1947 as a manufacturer of souvenir paper goods and operates today as a supplier for the tourist and attraction industries.
The OSU Queer Archives Oral History Collection is a growing repository of interviews and event recordings that document the experiences and perspectives of members of the LGBTQ+ community who have spent at least portions of their lives at Oregon State University and/or in Benton County, Oregon.
The Student Incidental Fees Committee Records document budget requests, reviews, and recommendations for funding provided to Oregon State University units and student-led organizations from student fees. The Student Incidental Fees Committee is responsible for the allocation of fees paid by all students enrolled at Oregon State University.
The G. Burton Wood Papers document Wood's professional work as the Director of the Oregon State University Agricultural Experiment Station from 1966 to 1975 and as an agricultural economist. The collection includes trip and meeting files, speeches, and reference materials. Wood was a faculty member in agricultural economics at Oregon State University from 1951 until his retirement in 1975.
The James A. Sewell Photograph Album consists of a photographic album assembled by Sewell documenting a wide variety of student activities while he was a student at Oregon Agricultural College at the beginning of the 20th century. Sewell, the grandson of Oregon pioneers Henry Sewell and Isaac Allen, returned to Hillsboro and was a farmer until his death in 1959.
The Catherine Perry Collection consists of music-related materials assembled by Perry as a music student and teacher.
The Harry C. Patton Collection of Oregon State College Memorabilia consists of items assembled by Patton and his family and includes yearbooks, dance cards, pennants, patches, and other memorabilia. Harry C. Patton graduated from Oregon Agricultural College in 1917 with a BS in logging engineering.
The Gerald W. Williams Lantern Slides Collection consists of lantern slides assembled and acquired by Williams in the course of his work as a Forest Service sociologist and historian and due to his avocational interest in the history of forestry and the Pacific Northwest region. The slides depict forests and forest operations; landscapes and scenery; and birds, wildlife, and plants. The collection includes advertisements for local businesses in the McKenzie River area. Gerald Williams worked for the U.S. Forest Service from 1979 to 2005 as a sociologist (1979-1998) and historian (1998-2005).
The Hugh C. Currin Photograph Collection consists of photographs assembled by Currin, primarily during his student years at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). Currin attended OAC in 1902-1903.
The 4-H Photograph Collection documents Oregon 4-H programs, projects, and participants in agriculture, home economics, natural science, and recreational activities. The 4-H youth program is administered through the Oregon State University Extension Service and was established in the early 1910s.
The Wesley Ross Memoir of World War II consists of personal remembrances and research conducted by Ross on the activities of the 146th Engineer Combat Battalion. Ross attended Oregon State College from 1938 to 1943 and earned a BS degree in electrical engineering.
The Women's Athletics Photograph Collection consists of images of teams, events, and individual athletes participating in a variety of sports and recreational activities at Oregon State, primarily during the 1920s and 1930s.
The Student Academic Records document students enrolled at Oregon State University from the late 1880s through early 2000s. The records include official transcripts, applications for admission, high school and other college transcripts, and related documents. The Registrar's Office was established in about 1903 with John B. Horner as the first Registrar.
The Ralph I. Gifford Motion Pictures consist of The New Oregon Trail, a tourism film photographed by Ralph I. Gifford for the Oregon State Highway Department, and unedited motion film clips of a variety of subjects, including alpine search and rescue. Ralph I. Gifford became the first photographer of the Travel and Information Department of the Oregon State Highway Commission in 1936, a position he held until his death in 1947.
The Walter H. Russell Papers consist of materials collected by Oregon Agricultural College alumnus Russell which document his student experience as well as his participation later in alumni reunion gatherings. This collection is made up of certificate, a diploma, event programs, grade reports, newspaper clippings, and photographs. Russell graduated in 1927 with a degree in electrical engineering.
The Recreational Sports Department Records document recreational sports and fitness programs offered at Oregon State University, primarily for students. The records include committee records, sports club files, photographs, videotapes, and audiocassettes. The Recreational Sports Department provides recreational and educational opportunities for the OSU community and oversees recreational facilities on the Corvallis campus.
The Urban League of Portland Records document the administration and programs of the League from its founding in Portland, Oregon, in 1945. The Records reflect the League’s outreach to the community through various programs and activities, fund-raising, interaction with the National Urban League, and African American life in Portland. The collection includes extensive paper records as well as visual documentation in the form of photographs, videotapes, and sound recordings.
The Beulah M. Porter Collection consists of dance cards and annotated wooden ice cream spoons collected by alumna Porter that document her participation in social events as a student at Oregon Agricultural College. Porter graduated with a degree in home economics in 1931.
The Oregon Central Military Road Map depicts a portion of the Oregon Central Military Road as surveyed in July-September, 1865. The Oregon Central Military Road was constructed and maintained by the Oregon Central Military Wagon Road Company that was incorporated in Eugene, Oregon, in 1864.
The Experiment Station Publications Photographic Collection document Agricultural Experiment Station research in Corvallis and at Branch Stations throughout Oregon.
The Oregon Native American Language Sound Recordings were made by Joe E. Pierce during his study of Native American languages in Oregon and include interviews with members of the Coquille and Siletz tribes.
The President's Office Records of William Jasper Kerr document Kerr's presidency of Oregon Agricultural College between 1907 and 1932 and include materials from his tenure as Chancellor of Oregon's higher education system. The collection includes general reference files, correspondence, newsclippings, assorted reports and publications, and materials generated for the Oregon State Board of Higher Education and the Board of Regents. The collection contains materials relating to the college's educational mission, organizational structure, budget, attendance, and curricular offerings, the state of education in Oregon, and the reorganization of the Oregon educational system. 
The Order of the Spoon Records document the policies and activities of this faculty club at Oregon State College. The collection contains materials pertaining to the establishment and organization of the Order, meetings and banquets it held, and membership. 
The E. E. Wilson Photographic Collection consists of images of Wilson, a Corvallis native and Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) alum, as well as his family and friends, the OAC campus, Corvallis, and other locations around the Pacific Northwest. The collection also includes images of the 1915 Panama Pacific Exposition in San Francisco and photos of Siletz tribe members. Digitized images from the E.E. Wilson Photographic Collection can be viewed in Oregon Digital.
Azadi is the newsletter of the Oregon State College Chapter of the Hindustan Student's Association of America. The Chapter was established at Oregon State in 1947 to grow understanding between India and the United States and to support students from India attending Oregon State.
The Clifford L. Smith Photograph Collection consists of images assembled by Smith that document student life at Oregon Agricultural College in the late 1910s. Smith earned a B.S. from Oregon State in 1929 and joined the faculty in the early 1940s.
The Hop Press newsletters, prepared by Hop Specialist G.R. Hoerner, were issued monthly by the Oregon State College Extension Service as a means to provide information on hops and brewing to County Extension Agents in Oregon.
The Donald B. Zobel Papers consist of materials reflecting Zobel's involvement with the Oregon Flora Project, specifically the Oregon Plant Atlas. Zobel was a faculty member in the Botany and Plant Pathology Department from 1968 until his retirement in 2003.
The Team Liberation Records document the establishment and functioning of this organization during its first two years. Team Liberation was established at Oregon State University in 2002 to provide interactive human relations workshops to the Oregon State community. All the materials in the collection are born-digital records that are available to researchers in the Special Collections and Archives Research Center Reading Room.
The Oregon State Technical Record was written, edited, and published by engineering students at Oregon State College. The issues that comprise this archival collection are available online in Oregon Digital. All issues of the Oregon State Technical Record are available in the History of Oregon State University rare book collection. An index that includes references for the Technical Record and its predecessor, the Student Engineer, is available in the History of Oregon State University collection and online.
The 1959 Oregon State College Wrestling Court oral history collection consists of born digital audio files and transcripts, as well as supporting research materials compiled by OSU undergraduate student Brittany Backen in her research on the wrestling court and the controversy that it provoked. The collection includes interviews with members of the court, the former editor of the OSC Daily Barometer, and a former member of the 1959 wrestling team.
The Harold Frodsham Photographs consist of images of lumber mills in Oregon taken by Frodsham in 1922 during a tour of lumber mills in Oregon and northern California. The images include exterior and interior views. Frodsham was employed by the Red River Lumber Company in Westwood, California in the 1920s and 1930s.
The Jack Williams Slides consist of color slides made by the father of Gerald W. Williams, Jack Williams, during the mid-to-late 1950s. The images depict landscapes in Oregon, California, and Washington; birds and wildlife; and dams and other water projects in the Pacific Northwest. Of special note are photographs of Native Americans fishing at Celilo Falls on the Columbia River, most of which are available online in Oregon Digital. Jack Williams became interested in photography in the 1930s. He moved to Oregon in the late 1930s and lived in Eugene, Oregon, in the 1940s and 1950s.
The John W. Trigg Photograph Album consists of photographs assembled by Trigg, primarily during the academic year 1915-1916 when he attended Oregon Agricultural College as a vocational student in agriculture. The images depict campus buildings and views, athletics, student activities, and military cadets.
The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program Records document farms and ranches in Oregon that have applied for and received recognition as Century or Sesquicentennial farms or ranches. The records consist primarily of application materials and administrative files related to the awards ceremonies; a database listing all the farms and ranches accepted into the program is also included. The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program was established in 1958. All available application files and select administrative files are digitized and available in Oregon Digital.
The Terra Research Magazine consists of print and born-digital content highlighting the research, scholarship, and creative endeavors of faculty and students at Oregon State University. Terra was launched in spring 2006 with a color print magazine and companion website. Most issues of Terra are available online in Oregon Digital.
The Journalism Department Photographs consist of images created or acquired by Journalism Department staff for use in publications and displays as well as photographs taken and mounted by students for class projects. Subject include student activities, campus buildings, and Oregon scenic views.
The Student Activities Photograph Collection consists of Oregon State University student group photos and images of students engaged in a number of activities. Photographs of members and officers of Mortar Board, Blue Key, and the Dad's Club are included in the collection.
The Triad Club Records document the activities and operation of this organization of Oregon State University faculty established in 1926 to further "fellowship, cooperation, and service" among faculty, students, and the citizens of Corvallis. The records include membership lists, minutes, scrapbooks, photographs, and anniversary publications.
The Political Science Department Records consist primarily of materials documenting the annual Institute on World Affairs held at Oregon State College in the 1950s. Political science courses have been taught at Oregon State since the 1860s.
The Greek Life Office Records document the administration of this office, which regulates and provides support services to the fraternity and sorority community at Oregon State University. These materials were primarily generated by the Greek Life Office and reflect administrative activities such as the development of training workshops/classes, the compilation of membership statistics, collaboration with law enforcement agencies in educational programming, and the evaluation of annual rush activities. The Greek Life Office was established in 1998. Access to the Judicial Sanction Files in Series 15 is restricted due to the presence of confidential information. All requests for access to these materials should be directed to the University Archivist.
The Theodore Rockwell Papers document the life and career of Ted Rockwell, a member of the Manhattan Project, technical director for the U.S. Navy's nuclear propulsion initiative under Admiral H. G. Rickover, and co-founder of engineering firm MPR Associates, Inc. and nuclear advocacy group Radiation, Science, and Health, Inc. The collection includes correspondence, publications, research files, administrative documents, and memorabilia from his career. The collection also documents Rockwell's interest in parapsychology and includes extensive research materials on consciousness studies, telekinesis, dowsing, extraterrestrials, and other phenomena.
The Lower Division Records contain correspondence, meeting minutes and notes, and reports that document the organization and establishment of a Lower Division curriculum at Oregon Agricultural College. A portion of the records were assembled by Mahlon Ellwood Smith, Dean of the Lower Division from 1932 until his retirement in 1949.
The Environmental and Molecular Toxicology Department Faculty Research Publications consist of journal articles written by faculty and graduate student researchers at Oregon State University conducting toxicology-based research on the effects of chemicals on humans and the environment. The Environmental and Molecular Toxicology Department, an academic unit in the College of Agricultural Sciences, was formed in 1998 as a result of a reorganization of former programs in agricultural chemistry and toxicology.
The Memorial Union Program Council (MUPC) Records document the administration of this organization and its role in programming campus events. Primarily reflecting activities related to event coordination and publicity, this collection includes artifacts, budgetary documents, contracts, correspondence, digital files, flyers, handbooks, meeting minutes, photographs, posters, publications, reports, and scrapbooks. The MUPC was established in 1948.
The Websterian Literary Society Records document the activities of this co-educational organization for Oregon Agricultural College students.
The Edward S. Curtis Photographs consists of three photographic prints, a platinum print and two photogravures, acquired by Gerald W. Williams, that document aspects of Native American life between 1900 and 1926. The prints are titled, Caches at Celilo, Woman's Costume and Baby Swing - Assiniboin, and The Clam Digger. All of these images appear in Curtis' 20-volume set, The North American Indian. Edward S. Curtis was known for his exceptional photography and his ethnological work that sought to document Native American groups and their cultures.
The President's Office Records of H. B. Miller contain extensive correspondence regarding the operation of the State Agricultural College of Oregon during Miller's 1896-1897 presidency, a comprehensive report describing the activities of the College during the 1897 academic year, and copies of a biography and an obituary for Miller.
The Nuclear Free America Records document the activities of this nonprofit resource center throughout the lifetime of the organization. Nuclear Free America facilitated a worldwide antinuclear movement to create "nuclear free zones" (NFZs) or communities where nuclear production, testing, waste, and transportation activities were banned. During its 15 years of operation, more than 200 NFZ declarations were passed by 4,500 local governments in 26 nations worldwide. The collection includes administrative records, records of nuclear free zone declarations by localities around the world, and extensive files related to affiliated antinuclear organizations.
The President's Office General Subject and Correspondence Files consist of microfilmed records documenting the administration and functioning of Oregon State University -- primarily during the 1950s and 1960s.
The Oregon State University Military Photographs Collection consists of images of military education and cadets at Oregon State from various sources and time periods. Individual images include portraits and group shots of military cadets and officers, as well as reviews, formations, training, and instructional materials. Photographs are arranged chronologically by historical era. Courses in military science have been taught at Oregon State since the early 1870s.
The Leland F. Skillin Collection consists of materials documenting Skillin's work as an engineer. Skillin was employed as a mechanical engineer with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Willamette Iron and Steelworks from the late 1930s through the 1960s and worked on design and construction of several dams in Oregon.
The Difference, Power, and Discrimination (DPD) Program Records document the establishment and functioning of the DPD Program at Oregon State University as well as the topics of diversity, discrimination, racism, minority students and faculty, and women in higher education. The DPD Program at Oregon State University was established in the early 1990s as a means to deliver courses to address cultural and ethnic diversity as well as racism, discrimination, and their origins. Access to the transcripts and notes for interview with no releases in Series 7, Sub-Series 3 is restricted. All requests for access to this material should be directed to the University Archivist.
The Gerald W. Williams Glass Negatives Collection consists of eight glass negatives of the Oregon coast assembled and acquired by Williams due to his avocational interest in the history of the Pacific Northwest region. The photographer is not identified. Gerald Williams worked for the U.S. Forest Service from 1979 to 2005 as a sociologist (1979-1998) and historian (1998-2005). All of the items are available online in Oregon Digital.
The Oregon State University Extension Association/4-H Records document the members, programs, and activities of the professional association of 4-H extension agents in Oregon. The organization was established in 1975 and is affiliated with the National Association of Extension 4-H Agents (NAE4-HA) and the Oregon State University Extension Association.
Russell and Katherine (Smith) Tegnell were students at Oregon State College who met on campus and married in 1934, just before their fourth year of college. The Russell and Katherine Tegnell Scrapbook was compiled by the couple, and contains numerous newspaper clippings as well as a smaller number of photographic prints. Much of the material included in the scrapbook is related to Russell’s time as the President of the Memorial Union as well as Katherine’s academic achievements. Initiation and award certificates, and a blank class officers ballot are also included.
The Annual Cruise was published each academic year from 1920 through 1975 by the Forestry Club as a yearbook for Oregon State forestry students and alumni. The College of Forestry published three issues of the Annual Cruise at the close of the 20th century in 1996, 1999, and 2000. The publication includes articles on forestry topics, information about and photographs of forestry students and faculty, reports of Forestry Club activities, alumni news, and updates on current research activities.
The Oral Histories of the Benton County (Or.) Courthouse document the history of the building as expressed by descendants of those who built it as well as those who worked in it and fought to have it preserved, including Judge Richard Mengler and six other interviewees. Completed in 1889 and located in downtown Corvallis, the Benton County Courthouse is Oregon's oldest courthouse building still being used for its original purpose.
The Alumni Association Records document the alumni of Oregon State University and the Association's administration, programs and activities, and publications. An alumni organization was established at Corvallis College (now Oregon State University) in 1873.
The Portland Brewing Company Records includes brewing records, photographs, promotional and training materials, and ephemera. The Portland Brewing Company was incorporated by Fred Bowman and Art Larrance in 1983; it opened in 1986. Hart Brewing was founded by Beth Hartwell and Tom Baune in Kalama, Washington in 1984; the name was changed to Pyramid Breweries in 1996. The Portland brewery facility closed in 2021. At various points, these companies merged and purchased by other companies.
The School of Pharmacy Photograph Collection consists of images assembled by the School of Pharmacy and by Ernst Stuhr that depict the Pharmacy Building, pharmacy classrooms and laboratories, and exhibits for drug shows at Oregon State College. Pharmacy instruction began at Oregon Agricultural college in 1898; Ernst Stuhr was a member of the pharmacy faculty from 1927 to 1944.
The English Department Photographs consist exclusively of images Bernard Malamud, novelist and Oregon State College English professor.
The Frederick Earl Price Photograph Collection consists of images of the retirement dinner for Price and includes photographs of Price's family and Oregon State University administrators. Frederick Earl Price was a faculty member at Oregon State and served as Dean of Agriculture and Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station and Extension Service from 1950 until his retirement in 1965.
The University Theatre Records document dramatic stage productions at Oregon State University beginning in the 1920s and consist predominantly of play files and theater posters.
The George W. Moore Papers consist of field and laboratory notebooks documenting Moore's work as a research geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey from 1951 to 1987. He became a Courtesy Professor Geology at Oregon State University in 1987.
The Sharon E. Rosenkoetter Papers document Rosenkoetter's research in early childhood development, especially transition planning between settings for children with special needs and leadership development to promote quality services across early childhood agencies and disciplines. Sharon E. Rosenkoetter was an Associate Professor in Human Development and Family Sciences at Oregon State University from 1999 until her retirement in 2010.
The Magic Lantern Slide Collection consists of several sets of magic lantern slides as well as one set of glass-mounted 2x2 slides that were probably used for home entertainment or educational purposes. The collection includes images of artwork, a children's story, drawings of animals and birds, and photographs of farms in Alabama.
The Mount St. Helens Oral History Collection consists of seven interviews conducted in 2015 by historian Samuel Schmieding with five scientists and one administrator who have played a leading role in the study and management of Mount St. Helens, a Cascades Range volcano that famously and catastrophically erupted on May 18, 1980. All of the interviews described in this collection have been transcribed and made available online.
The Honors Program Records consist of the administrative and student related records of the Oregon State University Honors Program from initial efforts in the mid-1960s to its closure, due to budget cuts, in 1991.
The Oregon Hops and Brewing Archives Oral History Collection is a growing repository of interviews with industry professionals, journalists and community members. More specifically, this collection documents the stories of people involved with Pacific Northwest hops and barley farming; craft and home brewing, cider, and mead; and scientific research. All interviews are available for streaming online.
The Asia University America Program Photographs document the programs, activities, and participants of the Asia University America Program (AUAP) at Oregon State University, established at OSU in 1988 to bring Japanese students to OSU for intensive English language training.
The College Bulletins consist of bulletins published by Oregon Agricultural College, and later Oregon State College, to promote the academic programs and outreach activities of the College. Almost 500 bulletins were published over 30 years from 1902 to 1932. Items from this collection have been digitized and are available in Oregon Digital.
The Claud L. Booth Photograph Album was assembled by Booth to document his student years at Oregon Agricultural College and includes images of student activities and athletic teams and events. Claud Lorraine Booth attended Oregon Agricultural College in 1919-1923 and 1926-1927 and earned a BS in Industrial Arts in June 1928.
The Shideler Papers document the OSU presidency of James H. Jensen through materials created and assembled by Fred Shideler in his role as head of information services for the University.
The M. B. Spillard Photograph Collection consists of photographic postcards of Oregon Agricultural College buildings and campus views in the early 1910s.
The Schoth Papers document research in cover crops (vetches and clovers), forage crops, and turf and other grasses conducted by Schoth as an agronomist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture at Oregon State College.
The Plans and Profiles of Oregon Rivers consist of detailed maps and profiles of rivers and streams, dam sites, and reservoirs, primarily in Oregon. The collection also includes some rivers in the bordering states of Washington, Idaho, and California.
The Donald L. Mason Photographs depict the Oregon State College campus foundry facilities, items made at the foundry, and students in foundry classes. Mason earned a BS in Industrial Arts from Oregon State College in 1937 and was Foundry Instructor in the Industrial Arts Department until 1943.
The Carey L. Strome Papers consist of materials generated and assembled by alumnus Strome documenting his agriculture courses at Oregon Agricultural College in the early 1910s. The Papers include class notes, course materials and class assignments, and publications. Strome earned a BS in Agronomy at Oregon Agricultural College in 1916.
The Schelling Scrapbook was compiled by Carolyn Schelling and includes photographs and memorabilia documenting her attendance at the 1916 Oregon Agricultural College summer session.
The Zoa Lowthian Photograph Album documents Lowthian's student years at Oregon Agricultural College in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The collection includes snapshots of campus buildings and scenes, student activities, and Lowthian's friends and family as well as several ephemeral items. Lowthian earned a BS in Pharmacy in June 1932.
The Centro Cultural César Chávez (4Cs) Records document activities and events sponsored by the Center; Oregon State University students, faculty, and staff affiliated with the Center; and the campus environment for Latino/a students at Oregon State. The 4Cs was established at Oregon State University in 1972.
The Student Health Services Records document the administration and provision of health services to Oregon State University students. The records address a variety of health and medical topics such as communicable diseases, vaccinations, patient privacy, and medical records. Student Health Services was established at Oregon Agricultural College in 1916.
The Benton County (Or.) Extension Service Records consist of materials generated and assembled by the Extension Service Office in Benton County, primarily documenting extension forestry activities and programs. Richard A. (Rick) Fletcher was Extension Forestry Agent for Benton County from 1979 until 2011.
The Ernst Thedore Stuhr Papers document Stuhr's research and writing on medicinal plants and the pharmacy profession. Stuhr served on the faculty of the Oregon State College School of Pharmacy from 1927 to 1944.
The Jay William Blair Photographic Collection documents the Oregon State College campus and student activities. Blair attended OSC from 1939 to 1942 and graduated in 1942.
The Jo Anne J. Trow Papers consist of materials generated and collected by Trow that document her career as an administrator at Oregon State University as well as her involvement in community and professional organizations. Trow came to Oregon State in 1965 to serve as Dean of Women. She retired in 1995 after serving as Vice President for Student Affairs for more than 20 years.
The Ralph I. Gifford Photographs consist of images taken by Gifford throughout Oregon, primarily during the 1930s and 1940s. The photographs depict many Oregon landmarks and scenes, including the Oregon Coast, Crater Lake, Mount Hood, the Wallowa Mountains, and the Snake River Canyon. The collection includes numerous images of sport fishing as well as several photographs of Native Americans. Ralph Gifford was the son of Benjamin A. Gifford and took over his father's Portland photography business around 1920. In 1936, Ralph became the first photographer of the newly established Travel and Information Department of the Oregon State Highway Department, a position he held until his death in 1947.
The Queer Studies Program Records documents the establishment and contributions of Oregon State’s queer studies program, which began in the summer of 2013 and continues to offer classes today.
The United States War Relocation Authority Reports are comprised of more than fifty mimeographed reports detailing the operation of War Relocation Authority (WRA) concentration camps used to house Japanese American incarcerees during World War II. The contents of Series 1, Series 2, Series 3, and Series 4 have been digitized and are available upon request.
The Wanda Gifford Photographs consist of images taken by Wanda Gifford during the late 1940s and 1950s that document post-war Salem, Oregon; agriculture in the Willamette Valley; and scenic views of Oregon landmarks, the northern Cascades in Washington, Glacier National Park in Montana. After Ralph Gifford's death in 1947, his wife Wanda Muir Gifford took over the family's photography business and continued to take and sell photographs through the mid-1950s. 
The Oregon State Highway Maps consist primarily of the official highway map produced annually by the Oregon State Highway Department. The maps depict federal and state highways, key landmarks, and other information for drivers and visitors.
The Chih H. Wang Papers are composed of materials created and assembled by Wang as a faculty member of the Oregon State University Chemistry Department, Director of the OSU Radiation Center, and Head of the Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering. Materials include professional correspondence, OSU Chemistry Department and Radiation Center research records, workshop, conference, and training program files, OSU administrative records, publications by Wang, and subject files related to chemistry, nuclear science, and nuclear power policy and legislation. The Wang Papers document Wang's career, the founding and development of the OSU Radiation Center, and the growth of nuclear science research and training during the 1960s and 1970s.
The Disability Access Services Records focus on programs and services provided by the former Services for Students with Disabilities office at Oregon State University, as well as the student organizations, Handicapped Students Unlimited and the Disabled Students Organization. The Disability Access Services Office began as Handicapped Services, located in the Counseling Center, during the late 1970s. In the early 1980s, Handicapped Services became the office of Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD). The office would later be renamed as the Disability Access Services office.
The Marie Norris Collection documents Norris' life and work as a Native American activist, storyteller, and historian and consists of materials created by Norris and assembled by Roger Weaver. Marie Norris pursued a life of active service to her Klamath community until her death in 1981. Roger Weaver met Norris in 1974 and was inspired by her to develop a course on Native American literature at Oregon State University, where he was a faculty member in English from 1962 until his retirement in 1996.
The Staff Newsletter consists of the weekly publication for Oregon State University faculty and staff published from 1961 through 2009 as The Staff Newsletter, OSU This Week, OSU This Summer, and LIFE@OSU. The newsletter includes articles, announcements, and news of campus-wide interest. The Faculty Senate minutes were published as an appendix to the newsletter during the 1960s and 1970s. Most of the issues of OSU This Week and OSU This Summer are available online in Oregon Digital.
The Planimetric Maps of Oregon and Washington consist of detailed maps of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers and nearby towns and lands, soon after World War II. The maps depict water features, land cover, roads, structures, and land claims.
The Robert W. Newburgh Papers document Newburgh's research, administrative activities, participation in faculty governance, contributions to statewide and national organizations, and instruction. Newburgh joined the faculty of Oregon State University in 1953 and served as Chair of the Biochemistry and Biophysics Department, Director of the Science Research Institute, and Dean of the Graduate School. Newburgh retired from Oregon State in 1981.
The Western Small Fruit Pest Conference Records document the establishment and annual meetings of the organization. The first meeting of the Western Small Fruit Virus Disease Conference was held in Portland, Oregon, in January 1950 for breeders, plant pathologists, and entomologists to report on the detection, identification, and control of small fruit viruses, especially of raspberries and strawberries.
The Milton O. Stemmler Student Diary consists of a typed transcript of a day-by-day record of experiences as maintained by Stemmler, an Oregon Agricultural College student in 1892-1895. Stemmler earned an agriculture degree from Oregon Agricultural College in 1895.
The Counseling and Psychological Services Records consist of reports, announcements, and research publications documenting the activities of the office and Oregon State University students. The Counseling and Testing Bureau was established at Oregon State in 1946 to provide services to World War II veterans; services were expanded to all Oregon State students in 1948.
The John L. Robbins Photographs consist of photographs taken by Robbins during his student years at Oregon State University in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The images document campus events, student activities, athletics, and campus views and scenes. Robbins earned a BS in Industrial Arts Education from Oregon State in 1973.
The Ruby Breithaupt Photograph Collection consists of several photographs of Oregon Agricultural College students assembled by Breithaupt, including a 1910 image of a group at Jump-off Joe on Nye Beach in Newport, Oregon.
The Natalie Reichart Papers document preparation of Archery by Reichart and Gilman Keasey and include the manuscript, illustrations, and photographs. Reichart attended Oregon Agricultural College from 1917 to 1920 and was a physical education instructor from 1925 until 1945.
The Spike Sisters Scrapbooks were assembled by three sisters during their student years at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) in the 1920s and 1930s and include photographs, clippings, ephemera, and publications. Eleanor May and Frances Miriam Spike graduated from OAC in 1925 with degrees in home economics; Mary Marcella Spike attended OAC in 1931-1934, studying pharmacy.
The Herbarium Photographs were made or assembled by curators of the Herbarium and students in the Department of Botany and Plant Pathology. The images depict a variety of subjects including Pacific Northwest species of plants and trees, the Oregon Agricultural College greenhouses, botany research and teaching, and logging operations.
The Oregon State University Cultural Centers Oral History Collection consists of interviews conducted with undergraduate and graduate student staff members of OSU's Native American Longhouse. Documented within the collection are interviewees' thoughts on working in the Longhouse, the purpose and future direction of the cultural center, and negotiating life as a student of color at OSU. The Native American Longhouse was established in 1971; a new longhouse facility was dedicated in 2013.
The Frank G. Sutherland Notebook is the chemistry laboratory notebook Sutherland created during his 1912-1913 academic year at Oregon Agricultural College.
The Benjamin B. Stout Papers consist of materials created or assembled by Stout in his work as a forestry researcher, professor and university administrator, and writer. Stout earned forestry degrees from West Virginia, Harvard, and Rutgers Universities. He held positions at Harvard University, Rutgers University, and the University of Montana until 1985 when he joined the National Council of the Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI).
The Extension Bulletin Illustrations Photograph Collection consists of images that were created and assembled for use in Oregon State College Extension Service publications and county reports. They document extension activities in agriculture, home economics, and youth programs.
The Agricultural Experiment Station Special Reports consist of more than 1100 reports published from 1954 to 2012. The reports address a wide variety of agricultural and natural resources topics studied by Agricultural Experiment Station and Extension Service researchers. The Special Reports are available online in ScholarsArchive@OSU, where keyword searching can be performed on the reports. The Special Reports ceased publication in 2012.
The Memorial Union Campaign Records document efforts to fund construction of the Oregon Agricultural College Memorial Union. While the campaign took place in the mid-1920s, the bulk of the collection is comprised of correspondence, legal documents, and financial records recording efforts to collect pledged funds after the campaign's end. The collection also contains materials from the initial campaign, including scrapbooks, newsclippings, and ephemera.
The Affirmative Action Office Records document the development and implementation of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity programs at Oregon State University, especially with regard to women, ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities, and veterans. The records include subject files, affirmative action plans, policies and procedures, reports, and publications. The Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity was established at Oregon State University in 1972.
The Fisheries and Wildlife Department Photographs consist of images taken and assembled by the department that document fisheries and wildlife students, faculty, teaching, and research at Oregon State University, especially the research activities of the Oregon Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit.
The Oregon Pioneers Oral History Collection consists of 33 interviews conducted primarily in the summer of 1975 by Oregon State University students to document various aspects of local history from 1880 to 1929 in preparation for the United States bicentennial in 1976.
The Leo Sciuchetti Collection consists of photographs of Sciuchetti, a pharmacy professor at Oregon State University, with other pharmacy faculty and students.
The Morita Papers document the academic and research career of Richard Yukio Morita, a marine microbiologist who conducted extensive research on the effects of pressure, low temperature, and available energy on the physiology of marine bacteria. Richard Y. Morita was a faculty member in microbiology and oceanography at Oregon State University from 1962 through 1988 and pursued an active research program as a Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Oceanography from 1989 through the 2000s.
The Center for the Humanities Records document the formation, functioning and activities of both the Oregon State University Center for the Humanities as well as the Humanities Development Program that preceded it. In addition to daily operations and major events supported by the Center, the collection also details the academic certificate programs administered by the Center as well as the resident fellows that it hosted. The records likewise provide a thorough accounting of the International Film Series, which the Center sponsored for over twenty years. The Humanities Development Program was formed in 1977 and succeeded by the Center for the Humanities in 1984. Both the program and the Center were run by OSU English professor Peter Copek until his death in 2001.
The Minority Education Office Records consist of two Casa Educacional Photograph Albums documenting the activities and programs of Casa Educacional, including the 2004 National MEChA Conference held at Oregon State University. Casa Educacional provides support and advocacy services for Latina/o and Chicana/o students at Oregon State University.
The Rose Bowl Football Game Scrapbooks consist of two scrapbooks, primarily of newspaper clippings, and ephemera documenting the Oregon State College football team's participation in the 1942 Rose Bowl football game in Durham, North Carolina.
The Richard W. Gilkey Photographs consist of images made by Gilkey during his student years at Oregon State College in the late 1940s and early 1950s. The photographs provide extensive documentation of student life; many were published in the Beaver yearbook and the Oregon Stater alumni magazine. Gilkey earned BS and MS degrees from Oregon State.
The Nettie Spencer Papers consist of letters to Spencer written by sailor William Barrett in 1884 and a scrapbook of programs and ephemera assembled by Spencer, primarily from Corvallis College. Spencer graduated from Corvallis College in 1882.
The Ellis Samuel Dement Photograph Collection is comprised of photographs assembled by Ellis Samuel Dement between 1908 and 1910 when he was a student at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). The collection documents student life and activities, and includes images of the OAC Cadet Corps, athletic teams, student groups, and campus buildings. Many of the images in this collection are photographic postcards. Images from this collection have been digitized and are available in Oregon Digital.
The Office of Multicultural Affairs Records document the administration and functioning of the Office, which was established in 1991, and the variety of multicultural programs and activities for students and faculty at Oregon State University. The Records also reflect the many associated duties of Phyllis Lee, Director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs from 1992 until her retirement in 2003.
The Indian-Americans in Corvallis, Oregon Oral History Collection is a set of six interviews featuring ten members of the Indian-American community in Corvallis.
The Donald Wesley Morse Photograph Album documents the student life of Don Morse at Oregon Agricultural College in 1917-1921 and his convalescence at the U.S. Veterans Hospital in Walla Walla, Washington in 1922-1923. Morse served in the U.S. Navy during World War I and graduated from Oregon Agricultural College with a B.S. in Commerce in 1921. Morse died in 1923 of tuberculosis that he contracted during his wartime service. Images from this collection have been digitized and are available in Oregon Digital.
The Speech Communication Department Records document speech instruction at Oregon State University; speech, debate, and drama activities, especially during the 1920s through 1950s; and the activities of Earl W. Wells as a faculty member and department chair. Speech courses have been taught at Oregon State since its establishment in the late 1860s. The Speech Department was founded in 1920; Earl Wells was department chair from 1952 to 1962.
The Ina Rihani Photographs consist of snapshots of Monroe, Oregon, taken or assembled by Rihani. Rihani enrolled at Oregon State University in the 1970s; she earned a B.A. in Sociology in 1975 and a M.A. in Interdisciplinary Studies in 1982.
The African American Railroad Porters Oral History Collection is primarily made up of thirty reel-to-reel sound recordings containing interviews between filmmaker Michael Grice and African-American railroad porters employed in the Portland area. The interviews cover a variety of topics, including the day-to-day work of porters, labor unions, and racism in the Portland area. These recordings formed much of the background research used for Grice's 1985 film, "Black Families and the Railroad in Oregon and the Northwest." Copies of the film are included in the collection and is available online. A website for the oral history interviews including digitized audio along with interview transcriptions can be found at: http://scarc.library.oregonstate.edu/oh29/index.html
The Emily McFarland Photograph Collection consists of two photographs of the Oregon Agricultural College campus.
The Students' Army Training Corps (SATC) Records document this World War I training program at Oregon Agricultural College. The records include financial reports and contracts; correspondence pertaining to equipment purchases; course descriptions, instructors, and registrations statistics; and rosters of SATC participants.
Based out of Tacoma, Washington, Smith-Western Company was founded in 1947 as a manufacturer of souvenir paper goods, including photographs of scenic views on college campuses throughout Washington, Oregon, and Idaho. Many of these images were printed as post cards to be sold at the Universities. Today, the Company produces goods for the tourist and attraction industries including post cards and children's outdoor clothing.
Jaqc Allen. At the time of the interview, Jaqc Allen was a third year student studying Public Health, Health Promotion, and Human Development. Allen worked at the Black Cultural Center, and was later appointed as a leadership liaison for SOL. Allen holds many identities that are important to them, including being queer, lesbian, gender nonconforming, and Native American Black. A nontraditional student, Allen came to Oregon State in their mid-twenties.
Judy Ball. Ball was born in 1952 in West Virginia, and adopted by parents Clyde and Nelly Ball. Raised as an only child, and living in a rural, isolated part of West Virgina, Ball and her parents were very close. She grew up in a lower middle-class and racially homogenous area, and because of this was not even aware of LGBTQ identities until much later in life. In her early childhood, Ball’s mother was a factory worker, while her father worked as a truck driver. However, due to financial difficulties and lack of job availability, both of her parents worked odd jobs for much of her youth, doing whatever was necessary to put food on the table. Interested in history and public policy from a young age, Ball escaped poverty through education, earning both a bachelor’s and master’s degree. Although she has had relationships with both men and women, today Ball is happily single and is very involved in the local Corvallis community.
Adrian Borycki. At the time of the interview, Adrian Borycki was a third year student in Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Oregon State University. Prior to majoring in WGSS, Borycki studied both engineering and pre-med. Borycki’s parents have resided in Corvallis for over five years, and they were already familiar with the town and OSU before attending. Borycki has been involved with the Pride Center since the winter of their freshman year, both as a volunteer and later as the center’s Publications Coordinator.
Jo Ann Casselberry. Casselberry was born on Long Island, New York in September 1954. Her family soon moved to the suburbs of Philadelphia, PA, where Casselberry spent most of her childhood. In high school, Casselberry was an advocate for girls’ rights to wear pants to school. She graduated high school in 1972, and began her college years at Wilmington College in Ohio, before dropping out and returning to Oregon in 1974. Once in Oregon, Casselberry worked for a while until deciding to return to school, this time attending Oregon State University, where she studied Interdisciplinary Studies and Political Sociology. Notably, Casselberry was very involved in the SAW (Society for the Advancement of Women) at OSU, and was one of the first two students to earn a minor in Women’s Studies. After graduating in 1979, Casselberry began volunteering through Linn-Benton Association for the Prevention of Domestic Violence and eventually took a job at the Rape Crisis Center, two organizations which soon merged to become what is today the Center Against Rape and Domestic Violence (CARDV). Casselberry began working at Oregon State University in the early 1980s and has remained there since, totaling more than 30 years spent at OSU. She now works in one of the business centers as the Grants/Contracts Technician. Casselberry has long been active in fighting for gay and lesbian rights, and was co-founder and treasurer of After 8, an advocacy and education group. The group was founded in Benton County in response to the passing of Measure 8 in 1988, an emotionally devastating measure for members of the gay and lesbian community. Casselberry acted in the demanding roles of treasurer and fundraising coordinator of the Political Action Committees, fighting a series of anti-gay ballot measures. Although After 8 is no longer active, the work of Jo and her co-workers has had a lasting impact on the community.
Martha Cone. Dr. Martha Cone, Ph.D. was a Post-Doc and teacher at Oregon State University for several years while simultaneously spending much of her free time advocating for women’s rights on campus. After earning her Ph.D. from University of Texas at Austin, Cone moved to Delaware to work at DuPont & Company. Dr. Cone then moved to California, where she met women travelling to Women’s Land in Estacada, Oregon. After a little over a year, Dr. Cone moved to Corvallis where she wrote Letters to the Editor for the Barometer and was an outspoken activist for women’s rights. Unfortunately, decades later she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Unable to continue work fulltime after her cancer treatment, she decided to officially retire. Currently, Dr. Cone works as a Braille translator for science textbooks while living with her partner in a floating home on the Columbia River in the Pacific Northwest.
Tara Crockett. Crockett is a fourth-year student at Oregon State University majoring in women, gender, and sexuality studies. They identify as trans and mixed race, and currently serve as a Student Leadership Liaison for the OSU Pride Center.
Qwo Li Driskill. Dr. Driskill is a Cherokee poet, scholar, and activist raised in rural Colorado. Driskill earned a BA from the University of Northern Colorado, an MA from Antioch University Seattle, and a PhD from Michigan State University. Driskill has taught at Antioch University Seattle, Texas A&M University, and Oregon State University, and currently serves as Director of Graduate Studies in Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (WGSS) at Oregon State University.
Malik Ensley. Ensley is a fourth-year student at Oregon State University studying human development and family sciences. In addition, Malik serves as president of Omega Delta Phi fraternity at OSU and has collaborated on projects with a number of on-campus organizations, including the Lonnie B. Harris Black Culture Center, the Pride Center, and the Oregon State Queer Archives (OSQA).
Robin Frojen. Valerie “Robin” Frojen was born on October 14, 1966 in Los Angeles, CA. Two months later she was adopted by Colleen Baker Frojen and Robert Charles Frojen. She has two brothers named Jon Collin Frojen and Antonio Ezkauritza. She attended a Catholic all-girls middle and high school, where she found respite from bullying experienced in elementary school. Frojen pursued higher education in Syracuse, New York from 1984-1988. Yearning for a new path in life, Robin moved to Scottsdale, Arizona to enroll in culinary school. In 1990, she completed culinary school which opened several doors for her in the culinary world. Frojen and her first wife had a son together in 2000, Colin Lee Frojen-Andersson. She subsequently remarried, to her current wife Searainya “Sea” Bond-Frojen.
Sara Gelser. Senator Sara Gelser was born in Las Vegas, Nevada as Sara Ann Acres on December 20th, 1973. Gelser is the eldest of four, with three younger brothers. In middle school, she established a group called Teens for the Prevention of AIDS in collaboration with friends from the LGBTQ+ community. When Gelser’s family moved from Nevada to Oregon, rather than finishing high school, she decided to apply to college early, at the suggestion of her mother. At sixteen years of age, she was accepted to and began her studies at Earlham College in Indiana. Gelser chose Earlham, a Quaker school, because of its inclusivity towards the LGBTQ+ community, and its commitment to social justice issues. Gelser participated in student government, studying history and education with the intention of becoming a teacher. She earned her bachelor’s degree in History in 1994. That same year, Gelser moved to Corvallis, Oregon with her husband Peter, whom she met and married in college. After starting a family, Gelser returned to school, earning a master’s degree in Interdisciplinary Studies from Oregon State University in 1999. Gelser worked on the Corvallis school board from 2001 to 2005, and was elected to the Oregon House of Representatives in 2005, following the resignation of a Democratic incumbent. After being re-elected for four terms, Gelser was elected to the Oregon Senate in 2015, where she continues to serve. In this position, Gelser has supported bills that include nondiscriminatory outlines for business and insurance companies, stricter punishments for child abusers, standards for modified diplomas toward financial aid, medically accurate sex education, and resource-building for LGBTQ+ veterans.
Stina Goetter. At the time of the interview, Stina Goetter was a fourth year undergraduate student at Oregon State University studying math. In addition to her studies, Goetter also worked as a leadership liaison for the Pride Center, and was involved with the center and with Rainbow Continuum since her freshman year. Goetter is a self-identified lesbian, a genderfuck/genderfluid/genderqueer individual, and a self-described nerd and accidental activist.
Ish Guevara. At the time of the interview, Ish Guevara was a third year undergraduate student at Oregon State University studying Apparel Design and Management. Before coming to OSU, Guevara started the LGBTQ club at his community college. When he transferred to Oregon State, Guevara was offered a position at the Centro Cultural César Chávez, and later with SOL, the LGBTQ+ Multicultural Support Network, where he worked for two years.
John Helding. John Helding was born February 11, 1958 in Portland, OR, and grew up in Gresham, OR on the east side of Portland with his family, including his parents and two older sisters. Both of his parents were born and raised in Montana. His father worked in the timber industry; his mother was a stay-at-home mom during Helding’s early years but then received her elementary teaching degree and taught elementary school in the Gresham school district for 15 years. Helding lived in Gresham until he graduated from high school in 1976. He attended Oregon State University from 1976-1981 and graduated with a degree in industrial engineering. During his time at OSU he sang with the OSU choir all five years, was a resident assistant his junior year, and was an ASOSU senator during his fifth year. After graduating, he moved to Beaverton, OR to work for the company Tektronix for three years as an industrial engineer (1981-1984) – during this time he decided he no longer wished to be an engineer. He then attended Stanford Business School from 1984-1986. After graduating from Stanford, Helding began working for the firm Booz Allen Hamilton and worked for them until the year 2000. He worked as an Associate/Sr. Associate (1986-1990); Western Region Administrative Director (1990-1993); Group Director of Operations, Marketing Intensive Practice (1994-1996); and Senior Director of Global Recruitment (1997-2000). Helding’s other positions have included Chair/Member, Client Security Fund Commission, State Bar of California (1998-2002); Member, Founding Board, San Francisco Friends School (2001-2005); Senior Advisor, Great Place to Work Institute (2003-2006); Member, Board, American Friends Service Committee (2005-2012); Chairperson/Clerk, Board Audit Committee, American Friends Service Committee (2005-2012). As of 2016, Helding’s positions include Chairperson/Clerk, Board, Quaker Voluntary Service (since November 2011); Chairperson, Lopez Island School Board, Lopez Island School District (since 2009); Facilitator, Interpersonal Dynamics Program, Stanford Graduate School of Business (since January 2001); Member, Board of Directors, Marts & Lundy, Inc. (since 2013); Advisor, Helding and Associates (since 2008). After living in San Fransisco for a time, in 2005 he reconnected with an OSU choir alum, a widow with two teenagers, and he moved to live with his new family on Lopez Island, WA; they have been living there since 2006.
Jeff Kenny. At the time of the interview, Jeff Kenney was the Associate Director of Diversity and Cultural Engagement at Oregon State University. Originally from Nebraska, Kenney moved to Corvallis from South Carolina to serve as Coordinator of LGBTQ+ Outreach and Services. With an emphasis on queer issues, interracial dialogue, diversity education, and antiracism, Kenney was instrumental to outreach efforts at his previous position at Clemson University, South Carolina.
Karuna Neustadt. Karuna Neustadt was born in 1952 in the town of Brockton, Massachusetts. Brockton is a suburb of Boston, located about 30 miles outside of the city. Neustadt’s mother was an elementary school teacher, who was born in Germany, and her father was a personnel manager from Boston. Neustadt grew up in an idyllic suburban neighborhood. She had one brother and enjoyed a very close relationship with him. Neustadt graduated from high school in 1970 and decided to pursue a university education. Neustadt enrolled at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa in 1970. After two years of study, she left Grinnell College and returned to Massachusetts. Back on the East Coast, she obtained a position as a teaching assistant and stayed in Boston for the next year. In 1973, Neustadt felt ready to return to college and enrolled at the University of Michigan. After about a year, she withdrew from the university and returned home to Massachusetts once again. In 1978, Neustadt realized she wanted to obtain an advanced degree in Counseling Psychology, so she enrolled at the University of Oregon. She quickly finished her bachelor’s degree and in 1981, Neustadt obtained her master’s degree in Counseling Psychology. During her academic career at University of Oregon, Neustadt enjoyed several jobs including one with the local school district and another at a local nursing home. After graduation, Neustadt returned to the East Coast to support her domestic partner, who was completing her studies at the Divinity School at Yale. Upon graduation in 1983, Neustadt’s partner was transferred to a position at Oregon State University, and Neustadt accompanied her. After returning to Corvallis, Neustadt accepted a position as a social worker at a nursing home, and later obtained a permanent position at the Area Agency on Aging in Corvallis. Neustadt remained with the agency for the next twenty-two years. In Corvallis, Neustadt became very politically active. In 1988, the Oregon Citizens’ Alliance (OCA) sponsored Ballot Measure 8, which repealed an executive order from Governor Neil Goldschmidt that banned discrimination based on sexual orientation. In 1989, Neustadt co-founded After 8, an advocacy group focused on ending discrimination against all people, but with a particular focus on the LGBTQ community. After 8 was involved in campaign and election support, voter education and legislative lobbying. After 8 remained active until 2003. During this time, Neustadt helped to defeat several different ballot measures while promoting community education. Neustadt was instrumental in furthering the integration of the LGBT community in Corvallis. After fourteen years of activism, Neustadt passed the torch and retired to enjoy life in Eugene, Oregon, where she now resides.
Guillermo Rebolledo. At the time of the interview, Guillermo Rebolledo was a fourth year undergraduate student in Sociology, with an option in Crime and Justice at Oregon State University. As a gay and Mexican student, Rebolledo previously worked as the internal coordinator for SOL, the multicultural support network for the LGBTQ+ community at OSU. In addition, Rebolledo was a member of a Greek multicultural fraternity at the university.
Mary Renneke. Mary Renneke was born in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1956. When Renneke was two, her parents divorced and she moved to San Jose with her mother, sister, and twin brother. She discovered her identity as a lesbian in high school in the early 1970s, supported by the covertly gay-friendly environment of women’s softball that emerged during that era. Since childhood, Renneke has divided much of her life between Oregon and California, attempting to balance her love of sports with work and the pursuit of education. After working as a bus driver and trainer for many years, and earning her bachelor’s degree through OSU’s online education program later in life, Renneke now resides in Albany and works in Corvallis.
Lorena Reynolds. Lorena Reynolds was born in Rochester, MN. Because her parents were born in Canada, they returned to the country shortly after her birth, and Reynolds spent the first 10 years of her life in Vancouver B.C, Canada. Following this period, the family moved to Southern California where Reynolds completed high school. After graduating, Reynolds attended Lafayette College in Pennsylvania for a year and a half, then later transferred to the University of Colorado, Boulder, where she completed her undergraduate degree. Reynolds went on to pursue a law degree at the UCLA School of Law, which she obtained in 1997. After a brief stint in L.A., Reynolds moved to Corvallis, OR and established her own private practice in 2004, where she currently practices family law.
Tristen Shay. Shay is the Associate Director of Student Services for the College of Liberal Arts, a Student Diversity Liaison, and an advisor at Oregon State University. Shay holds bachelors degrees in art history and gender studies from Whitman College, and a graduate degree in College Student Services Administration (CSSA) from OSU.
Rylan Wall. At the time of the interview, Rylan Wall was a graduate student in the College Student Services Administration (CSSA) program at Oregon State, and a GTA at the Center for Civic Engagement on campus. In his sixth year at OSU, Wall began his involvement with the Pride Center. In his freshman year, he was the Social Director of Rainbow Continuum, a student-fee funded organization at the university. Wall was elected to the position of Co-Director of that same organization in his sophomore year, and then worked as the Internal Coordinator for the Pride Center as a junior—a position he held for two years. After returning from a study abroad program in Sweden, Wall worked full-time for Intercultural Student Services at OSU, collaborating on a project to assess experiences of queer international students on campus.
Katie Wicks. At the time of the interview, Katie Wicks was a recent graduate of Oregon State University’s Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and was working as a PROMISE intern at the school. Wicks was involved with the Pride Center since freshman year in a number of positions, including co-director of Rainbow Continuum, and office assistant at the center. Wicks has been involved in research efforts to foster greater inclusion for transgender-identified folks on OSU’s campus.
Julie Williams. Williams was born in Corvallis, Oregon, in 1962 to a Catholic family. Her father was the director of the laboratory at Good Salem Hospital and her mother was an insurance biller and nurse at the same hospital. Williams is the youngest of six children, and has been an athlete throughout her life. Born and raised in Corvallis, she attended the local elementary school and continued on to Corvallis High School, attending from 1976 to 1980. After graduating high school, Williams matriculated at Montana State University in Bozeman, Montana (1980-1981) on a volleyball scholarship, but later returned to Corvallis to attend and play volleyball for Oregon State University (1981-1983). Although she received her bachelor’s degree in Pre-Therapy, Williams realized she wanted to be a teacher two weeks before she left for therapy school. For this reason, she decided to return to school to pursue her master’s degree in Education. In 1987, Williams became a teacher at Corvallis High School, serving first as the school’s volleyball coach, and later as a Physical Education and health teacher. As an advocate for LGBTQ+ rights in education, Williams traveled around the Corvallis School District ensuring LGBTQ+ rights and policies were enforced and that such students could feel safe at school. In 1996, she became the advisor for the Gay Straight Alliance club (GSA) at Corvallis High School, the first club of its kind in Oregon. In 1999 Williams became the last recipient of the Harvey Milk Award, presented by the After 8 organization. Williams has recently taken up activism for sustainability and climate change, and now teaches Sustainability and Climate Change classes at Corvallis High School.
Vickie Zeller. Zeller is a fourth-year student at Oregon State University studying fisheries and wildlife. Zeller has been involved with Rainbow Continuum, a student-run club that seeks to create a safe space for LGBTQ+ students, from freshman year, acting as a member, co-director, and now advisor for the organization. In addition, Zeller has collaborated with the Pride Center to plan Pride Week and other events, and has co-hosted the annual OSU drag show.
Administrative History:
The Student Incidental Fees Committee is responsible for the allocation of fees paid by all students enrolled at Oregon State University. These fees support auxiliary operations that do not receive any general funds, such as the Memorial Union and Recreational Sports, and student-led organizations and activities and student government. The fees support the Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services, the Associated Students of OSU (ASOSU), and student tickets for athletic events. Committee members are Oregon State University students elected by the student body.
G. Burton Wood joined the faculty of Oregon State College in 1951 as head of the Department of Agricultural Economics, a position he held until 1966 when he was appointed Director of the Oregon State University Agricultural Experiment Station and Associate Dean of Agriculture. Wood retired from these positions in 1975. Wood earned a BS from the University of Oregon in 1938, an MS from Oregon State College, and a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1945. From 1944 to 1951, he was on the faculty at Purdue University. Wood's specialities within agricultural economics were marketing, farm management, and arbitration.
Gregory Burton Wood was born in 1909 in Medford Oregon. He married Ramona Jackson, daughter of E.P. Jackson, in 1935 and they had two children, Gregory Jr. and Patricia. Wood died in 1990.
James A. Sewell was the son of James H. and Sarah (Allen) Sewell and the grandson of Henry Sewell an Oregon pioneer who settled in Oregon in 1843. James A. Sewell was born on April 18, 1881 in Hillsboro, Oregon and attended Tualatin Academy in the 1899-1900 and 1900-1901 school years. He was a student at Oregon Agricultural College from 1901 to 1903, studying mechanical engineering. He later returned to Hillsboro and was a farmer until his death on October 10, 1959. His name is listed as James Ambrose Sewell in OSU records, but genealogical research shows that he is James Allen Sewell.
Catherine Perry was an OSU alumna and Corvallis music teacher. She was born in Corvallis and graduated from Corvallis High School. Perry enrolled (as Catherine Eleanor Jordan Sherwood) at Oregon State College in 1934 and attended OSC from 1934 to 1939 and again from 1944 to 1947 as a home economics student. She took numerous music courses during this time including piano courses, likely taught by Lillian Petri. She enrolled again at OSU for music courses in the late 1960s and early 1970s. She was a close friend of Paul and Lillian Petri. Paul Petri was head of the Music Department at Oregon State from 1924- 1947. Perry died in Corvallis in October 1992.
Harry Clifford Patton, from Macleay, Oregon, attended Oregon Agricultural College in the mid-1910s and graduated in 1917 with a BS in logging engineering. Patton's daughter, Shirley Elizabeth Patton, enrolled at Oregon State College in 1938 and completed a BS in Secretarial Science in 1943. Harry C. Patton's son-in-law, Jacob Wimer Bigham, Jr. also attended Oregon State College. Bigham, from Oregon City, attended OSC from 1938 to 1941, studying engineering. He did not earn a degree from Oregon State.
Gerald W. Williams worked for the U.S. Forest Service from 1979 until his retirement in 2005. From 1979 to 1993, he was a sociologist with the Umpqua and Willamette National Forests in Oregon; in 1993-1998, he served as the regional sociologist for the Pacific Northwest Regional Office in Portland; and from 1998 until his retirement in 2005 he was the national historian for the U.S. Forest Service in Washington, D.C. Williams designed and implemented a regional and national history program for the Forest Service which culminated in his appointment as national historian and his authorship of the centennial history of the Forest Service, The USDA Forest Service -- The First Century, in 2000. He has published more than 75 books, chapters, book reviews, and articles and conference papers exploring a variety of historical topics such as the Native American use of fire to manage environments, the Civilian Conservation Corps, and the U.S. Army's Spruce Production Division during World War I.
Williams is a native of Oregon and earned degrees from Southern Oregon University (B.A., Sociology; M.A. General Studies Social Science) and Washington State University (Ph.D., Sociology).
Hugh Cochran Currin from Ione, Oregon (Morrow County) attended Oregon Agricultural College in 1902-1903; he did not graduate. In 1920, he was living in Umatilla County, Oregon. Currin died in 1954.
4-H is the youth program administered in Oregon by the Extension Service with the goal of developing citizenship, leadership, and life skills through experiential learning programs in agriculture, home economics, natural science, engineering, and art. Oregon 4-H developed from industrial clubs established by individual schools in the early 1900s. F.L. Griffin was hired by the Oregon Agricultural College Extension Service as the first state leader in 1914. He was followed by H.C. Seymour who served as State Leader from 1916 until his retirement in 1947. Helen Cowgill and L.J. "Doc" Allen were instrumental, with Seymour, in the development of 4-H in Oregon.
Oregon was the first state to offer 4-H work in a metropolitan area when it established victory gardens on Portland school grounds during World War I. 4-H Summer Week on the Oregon State campus began in 1916 and brought youth from throughout Oregon to the campus in Corvallis. Oregon 4-H began participating in the International Farm Youth Exchange Program in 1951 and the 4-H Japanese Exchange Program was initiated in 1972.
Wesley Reid Ross was born in 1919; grew up in Wamic, Oregon; and graduated from Maupin High School. He attended Oregon State College from 1938 to 1943 and earned a BS degree in electrical engineering. Ross served in the 146th Engineer Combat Battalion (ECB) during World War II and participated in the D-Day invasion of Normandy and the Battle of the Bulge.
Intramural and intercollegiate athletics as well as physical recreation activities have been offered for women at Oregon State since at least as early as the 1890s. During the early and middle decades of the 20th century, Oregon State had one of the largest women's athletics program in the northwest. Oregon State's first basketball team was the women's team, established in 1898 and preceding the first men's team by 3 years. Several women basketball players were selected to receive the college emblem in the early 1900s by the Athletic Union.
Prior to 1900, the Clerk of the College kept all student records in ledger books. This early office in the Administration Building (now Benton Hall), was part of the President’s Office. The Registrar’s Office as an official function is first mentioned in the Oregon Agricultural College Catalog of 1903. Professor John B. Horner (1856-1933) held the title of first Registrar. The Registrar’s office originally had responsibility for recruitment of students, admissions, registration, and maintenance of student permanent academic records. In 1960, a separate Admissions Office was established at Oregon State University.
Born in Portland, Oregon, Ralph I. Gifford (1894-1947) worked in his father Benjamin A. Gifford's photography studio as a boy and accompanied his father on photography trips around Oregon. Ralph married Wanda Muir Theobald in 1918 and spent the last part of World War I in the U.S. Navy. He was stationed at a naval base on Whiddy Island, Ireland, during part of his time in the Navy. Ralph took over his father's photography business around 1920 and sold it in 1928 to go into the motion picture business with F. C. Heaton in Portland.
In 1936, Ralph became the first photographer of the newly established Travel and Information Department of the Oregon State Highway Commission. His landscape views of Oregon's natural beauty were used for many years to promote tourism in the state. He also took motion pictures for the Highway Commission, including the color version of The New Oregon Trail, which was shown in every state in the U.S., and Glimpses From Oregon State Parks, released shortly before Ralph's death on June 23, 1947. His obituary, published in several Oregon newspapers in late June 1947, stated that "more than any other person, he is responsible for the tourist business in Oregon being an $83,500,000 business."
Ralph also took and sold photographs commercially; many of his commercial views were taken at the same time as his Highway Commission photos. His photographs could be purchased as postcards, view sets, individual prints, and photo-plaques. In a letter to the managing editor of U.S. Camera magazine, Ralph stated in 1943 that his work was "to visually educate the traveling public as to Oregon's scenic and vacation possibilities."
Harold B. Say was the first director of the Travel Information Division of the Oregon State Highway Department, serving in that capacity from 1935 to 1946.
Born in Portland in 1902, Walter Russell graduated in 1927 with a degree in electrical engineering and was a member of Eta Kappa Nu, the honorary society for students in electrical engineering. After college, Russell worked for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in the design of hydroelectric powerhouses for dams. Employed with the Corps from 1935 to 1968, Russell worked on most of the major hydroelectric facilities in the northwest, including the Bonneville Dam, McNary Dam, the Chief Joseph Dam, and The Dalles Dam. He died in 1982.
The Recreational Sports Department provides recreational and educational opportunities for the Oregon State University (OSU) community, primarily students, and oversees recreational facilities on the Corvallis campus, including the Dixon Recreation Center and Stevens Natatorium, McAlexander Fieldhouse, and intramural sports fields.
A study of the administration and oversight of recreational programs and facilities was conducted in the early 1970s. Based on a recommendation of this study, a Board of Physical Recreation was established in January 1973 and the process was initiated to fund recreation programs and facilities with student fees. Recreational Sports celebrated its 25th anniversary in 1998.
The Dixon Recreation Center opened in 1975 and was dedicated in memory of James V. Dixon and Jeannette Brauns Dixon; the Stevens Natatorium was completed in 1992. The recreation center was extensively remodeled and expanded in 2004. McAlexander Fieldhouse and the outdoor sports fields were remodeled and upgraded in 2010-2011.
Sports clubs are recognized student organizations that provide OSU students the opportunity to compete in various sports against other schools' teams and community groups in the Pacific Northwest.
The Urban League of Portland was established in 1945 as an affiliate of the National Urban League. It is a non-profit, community-based organization whose mission has been to "enable African Americans to secure economic self-reliance, parity and power, and civil rights". The League has emphasized educational opportunity for African Americans and other youth, advocated for fair housing laws, and offered employment assistance.
Born in 1909 and raised in LaFayette, Oregon, Beulah Marie Porter came to Oregon Agricultural College in 1927. As a student, Beulah was active in a number of campus organizations and clubs which included the Home Economics Club, the YWCA, and the Greater Hall Council. After graduating from OAC in 1931 with a degree in home economics, Beulah went on to attend Iowa State College for graduate work in home economics education. She returned to the Pacific Northwest in 1936 and taught home economics at Vancouver High School in Washington. In 1946, Beulah married Marvin Young and the couple moved to Arizona where she resided the for the rest of her life. Beulah died in 1990.
The Oregon Central Military Wagon Road was built by a private corporation, the Oregon Central Military Road Company (Eugene, Oregon) through federal land grants to the State of Oregon for the purpose of constructing a military wagon road from Eugene, Oregon, to Boise, Idaho. Initial surveying and construction began in 1864, however, most of the surveying for the road was conducted in the summer of 1865.
Joe E. Pierce was a faculty member in the Anthropology Department at Portland State College at the time these recordings were made. Pierce earned his Ph.D. at Indiana University in 1957 and specialized in linguistics and world languages. He died in 1994.
Bruce J. Rigsby was a graduate student at the University of Oregon and completed his Ph.D. in 1965.
Amelia Brown was described by James Collins in Understanding Tolowa Histories: Western Hegemonies and Native American Responses as "herbalist, midwife, cook, and raconteur".
William Jasper Kerr was born November 17, 1863 in Richmond, Utah. At a young age, Kerr dropped out of school in favor of a position on his father's railroad construction crew. He later returned to school, earning a B.S. in mathematics from the University of Utah in 1885. Following graduation, Kerr accepted a position teaching in Smithfield, Utah. Shortly thereafter, he was promoted to Superintendent of the Smithfield district. Between 1887 and 1894, Kerr taught mathematics at Brigham Young College and the University of Utah. In 1894, Kerr was appointed President of Brigham Young, a position he held until 1900 when he became President of Utah State Agricultural College. In 1907, Kerr resigned his position at Utah and became President of Oregon Agricultural College.
Kerr's presidency at OAC was defined by a period of prolonged and aggressive growth. During his tenure, the college constructed more than twenty buildings, including the Memorial Union, and more than doubled the total size of the campus to 555 acres. He tightened admissions requirements, expanded curricular offerings, and added talented staff to the college's ranks. Kerr resigned from his post in 1932, ending the longest reign of any OSC president.
After leaving the college, Kerr became the first Chancellor of Oregon's system of higher education. He held this position for three years before retiring. William Jasper Kerr died in 1947 at the age of 83.
The Order of the Spoon, or Ordo Cochlearis, was an organization founded to foster sound scholarship and promote graduate study, including teaching, writing, and research, among doctoral degree holders on the faculty at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). Established by the Triad Club in 1927, the organization became a separate and independent entity in May of 1929 and the majority of the Ph.D faculty were members. The Order took its name from the history of scholarship; it was derived from the custom of medieval scholars to wear a wooden spoon as the insignia of their calling. The group's committee officers held titles of Chief Spoon Bearer, Assistant Chief Spoon Bearer, and Ladler.
On the day of an Order meeting, members often met at one campus location, dressed in hoods and gowns (academic regalia), each carrying a spoon that was their totem. The group then paraded with much fanfair and frivolity to the location of their meeting, at which members took part in a banquet while speakers gave presentations on the state of scholarship at the College. New members -- new Doctors residing within the "realm" of Oregon Agricultural College -- were inducted into the Order at these meetings.
Notable individuals associated with the organization were Othniel R. Chambers, George W. Peavy, William Edmund Milne, Francois A. Gilfillan, Willibald Weniger, and Clair V. Langton.
Alumnus E.E. (Eddy Elbridge) Wilson was born in Corvallis in 1869 and lived there until his death in 1961. He attended Oregon Agricultural College and graduated in 1889 with the first class from the new campus. He received a law degree from the University of Oregon in 1893 and practiced law in Corvallis from then until 1925, when he became President of the First National Bank of Corvallis.
Wilson served on the Oregon Agricultural College Board of Regents for 2 terms, 1906-1915 and 1925-1929, and was treasurer of the Memorial Union Board of Governors from its founding in 1925 until his death in 1961. He was a pioneer in game preservation and member of the State Game Commission for 14 years. Wilson was an only child and never married. Wilson Hall on the OSU campus and the E. E. Wilson Wildlife Refuge north of Corvallis bear his name.
The Oregon State College Chapter of the Hindustan Student’s Association of America was established in about 1947 as an association of Oregon State students from India. The Oregon State chapter held social gatherings, retreats, and informal discussions on a variety of topics. Movies from India were also shown on campus regularly. The Hindustan Student’s Association of America was founded in 1945 to foster understanding between India and America; promote interest in Indian literature, art, and culture; promote unity among Indian students in America; and assist Indian students with orientation to the United States and obtaining an education. The national organization grew quickly in the late 1940s as many students came to the United States from India to attend colleges and universities; in 1950, there were 35 chapters on campuses throughout the U.S. The national organization sponsored an annual conference for students from all chapters. By 1953, the organization name had changed to the Indian Student’s Association of America.
Students from India were among the first international students to attend Oregon State University in the early 1900s.
Clifford Lovejoy Smith was born February 23, 1907 in Kerby, Oregon. He attended Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) in 1925-1929 and received a B.S. in Dairy Husbandry in 1929. Smith was an active student at OAC and a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.
Smith earned graduate degrees from Kansas State University (M.S., 1930) and the University of Wisconsin (Ph.D. 1959) and joined the faculty of Oregon State College in the early 1940s. He was a founding board member of the E.R. Jackman Foundation and a member of the Steak and Chop Club. Smith retired from Oregon State University on June 30, 1969 at the age of 62. He died at the age of 84 on March 8, 1991, and the “Clifford Smith Memorial Agricultural Honors Scholarship” was created in 1992 in his honor by his family.
Commercial hops production began in Oregon in the 1860s; by the early 20th century, Oregon was the nation's largest hop producer. Scientists began experimenting with planting hops on campus grounds in 1893 and plant pathologists at Oregon State were instrumental in addressing downy mildew problems with hops during the mid-20th century. The USDA-OSU hop breeding program developed and released more than a dozen hop cultivars beginning in the 1960s.
Godfrey R. Hoerner was appointed the Extension Specialist for Hop Production in January 1948 as a half-time appointment with the Extension Service. This position was established at the request of Oregon hop growers and was initially funded by the Agricultural Research Foundation. Hoerner had been a plant pathologist with the USDA in Corvallis since 1931 and held various previous positions with the USDA; he continued a half-time appointment with the USDA while he was also serving as Hop Specialist. Hoerner earned a BS in Plant Pathology at Oregon Agricultural College in 1916 and completed an MS at the University of Minnesota in 1918. Hoerner left his positions at Oregon State and the USDA in April 1955 to become Chief of the Oregon State College Technical Assistance Team at Kasetsart University in Thailand. Hoerner completed two 2-year contracts at Kasetsart in 1955-1959 and died in October 1959.
Donald B. Zobel was a faculty member in the Oregon State University Department of Botany and Plant Pathology from 1968 until his retirement in 2003. Zobel's research area was forest ecology; he worked on projects concerning the water relations of trees in the Himalayas and in North America and the recovery of plants buried by volcanic debris at Mount St. Helens.
The Oregon Flora Project began in 1994 as a project to compile and provide information about Oregon's vascular plans to a general audience and botanical specialists. The Oregon Plant Atlas is an interactive mapping project that displays plant distributions.
Team Liberation was established in 2002 at Oregon State University as a program of the Diversity Development Office. In June 2002, a group of 10 Oregon State students and 2 administrators were trained as facilitators by Linda Sneddon, Program Director of the National Conference of Community and Justice in Portland, Oregon. These facilitators (mostly students) began presenting workshops in summer 2002.
A promotional flyer within the collection describes the purpose of the organization this way: "We as facilitators are seeking to help people liberate themselves from the thought-patterns and actions of social systems of oppression in which they have been immersed. We seek to manifest the change that we seek in the world -- that everyone, regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, class, religion, age, or ability, has an equal opportunity to grow, thrive and live with dignity and respect."
The Oregon State Technical Record superseded the Student Engineer, which was published from 1908 to 1923.
The Oregon State Technical Record was established in 1924 with the aim of becoming a member of the Engineering College Magazines Associated which was attained in 1928 when the publication was admitted to membership of the association. A benefit of membership was being eligible to obtain national advertising to support the magazine's production. The Technical Record received several honors from the association in the 1930s. Publication was temporarily suspended in 1944 and 1945 during World War II. In 1948, the title became Oregon State Tech Record.
Publication ended with the May 1959 issue (v. 34, no. 4).
In 1959 coach Dale Thomas and his Oregon State College wrestling team devised the idea of creating a wrestling court to promote the upcoming Pacific Coast Intercollegiate Wrestling Tournament, to be held in Corvallis. Wrestler Ken Noteboom selected twenty-nine female students for potential inclusion in the court. Noteboom and other members of the team interviewed all twenty-nine women, chose seven, and gave them titles based on wrestling objectives - titles which might also be construed to have sexually suggestive meanings. Carol Lindbloom was "Miss Time Advantage," Susan E. Hall "Miss Takedown," Mary Ann Backen "Miss Predicament," Carol Scott "Miss Fall," Suzanne Chapman "Miss Near Fall," Sharon Ransom "Miss Reversal," and Janet Aune "Miss Escape."
At the time, it was not unusual to use women to publicize college athletics and draw crowds for events. Controversy arose however, when the women were asked to pose for photos in bathing suits, wearing sashes bearing their titles, during a time when women at OSC were bound by a strict dress code requiring them to wear long skirts and high-necked tops. In response to the photographs, Oregon State College President August Strand placed a public ban on promotional "cheesecake" photographs for athletics. ("Cheesecake" was a common term used to describe pictures of women wearing little clothing, though still enough as to remain publicly acceptable for advertisement purposes.)
President Strand's ban caught the attention of the national media, and an article referencing the controversy appeared in the March 30, 1959 issue of Life Magazine, which featured the controversial swimsuit photo of the wrestling court as well as another image of the court wearing dress code compliant clothing and walking with President Strand on the OSC campus. The March 30, 1959 issue of Sports Illustrated also reported on the wrestling court, and its successful promotion of the Oregon State wrestling team, in an article titled "Really Nothing Like A Dame." These and other articles prompted numerous men in the United States and beyond to send letters to members of the court, requesting photos, expressing their support of the wrestling court and, in some cases, proposing marriage.
In her paper, Backen concludes that the 1959 wrestling court was not just about "coed cheesecake" and drawing crowds to wrestling events. Rather, the court represented one of numerous opportunities for female students to demonstrate their marriageability in a time when becoming the idealized post-war wife was a goal for many women. Backen argues that the wrestling court was comprised of women who were each trying to reach their own personal goals and, based on their own accounts, they largely succeeded.
Capsule biographies of individuals interviewed by Brittany Backen for her project are as follows:
Janet (Aune) Essig, "Miss Escape," was raised in Milwaukee, Oregon and Oak Grove, Oregon. She graduated from Oregon State in 1961 with an Education degree. While at Oregon State she pledged with Alpha Chi Omega sorority and was Miss November in the 1959 Sigma Delta Chi calendar.
Mary Ann (Backen) Hogan, "Miss Predicament," grew up in Roseburg, Oregon. At Oregon State she pledged with Pi Beta Phi sorority and majored in Education. Mary Ann, along with her sister Linda, was Miss June in the 1960 Sigma Delta Chi calendar.
Carol (Lindbloom) Hamlin, "Miss Time Advantage," was born and raised in Roseburg, Oregon. While attending Oregon State College she majored in Liberal Arts and pledged with Pi Beta Phi sorority. She also served on the Prom and Homecoming Courts, and was a Sweetheart of Sigma Chi.
Sharon (Ransom) Reid, "Miss Reversal," was born and raised in Albany, Oregon. At Oregon State she pledged with Alpha Chi Omega sorority and majored in Business Education. She graduated in 1962.
Kenneth W. Noteboom grew up in Salem, Oregon. At Oregon State he was a member of the wrestling team and was the 1959 senior class president. He graduated in the same year with a degree in Agricultural Education.
Charles (Chuck) R. Wenstrom attended Oregon State after returning from service in Korea. He was the manager of the football team, a member of Sigma Delta Chi fraternity and the Veteran's Club, and editor of the Daily Barometer. He studied physical education, journalism and social studies.
Members of the wrestling court not interviewed:
Susan (Hall) Tyler, "Miss Takedown," was born in Santa Monica, California in 1938. While attending Oregon State she majored in science, graduating in 1960. She also held the title of Miss OSC in 1959.
Carol (Scott) Lehmann, "Miss Fall" and queen of the wrestling court, was born in Albany, California in 1937. At Oregon State she majored in Home Economics, graduating in 1959.
Suzanne (Chapman) Davis, "Miss Near Fall," was born in Mason City, Washington in 1939. At Oregon State she studied in the School of Business and Technology, graduating in 1961. She was Miss May 1960 in the Sigma Delta Chi calendar, and held the title of Rose of Pi Kappa Phi in 1959.
Harold Frodsham was general manager of the commercial and mercantile departments of the Red River Lumber Company in Westwood, California, from the mid-1920s until 1934, when his position was eliminated. Frodsham, from England, died in Susanville, California in 1958; he had lived in Westwood and Susanville since the early 1920s.
The Red River Lumber Company was organized in 1883 in Minnesota and began acquiring northeastern California timberland in 1894. The Company began construction of Westwood, its company town in southwestern Lassen County, California, in 1912; the lumber mill at Westwood was essentially completed by 1918 and operated until the mid-1950s.
Jack Williams was “taken with photography in the 1930s”, in the words of his son Gerald W. Williams. Jack Williams’ eldest son, Jack A. Williams, purchased cameras and lenses on behalf of his father when he was stationed with the U.S. Air Force in Germany. Jack Williams was an opportunistic photographer, according to his son Gerald; he didn’t set stages or use a flash or tripod. However, he did use a special shoulder mount for his cameras. Williams enjoyed photographing waterfowl, wildlife, and landscapes. He also took his camera with him to construction sites for dams and highways throughout the Pacific Northwest. Jack Williams rarely photographed people, except for occasional snapshots.
John Francis (known as Jack) Williams was born in Iowa on August 7, 1908. He worked in Indiana and Minnesota as a young man. After two marriages ended in divorce, Jack moved to Oregon in 1938, settling first in Klamath Falls with his third wife Gladys Norgard. In about 1940, the Williams moved to Eugene, Oregon, where their sons Gerald W. and James were born. Jack worked as a mechanic throughout his life and established, with partners, an auto-electric business in Springfield, Oregon, in the 1950s. Jack moved to California in about 1959.
John William Trigg, from Ferndale, California, attended Oregon Agricultural College during the 1915-1916 academic year as a vocational student in agriculture and earned a vocational certificate in June 1916. In 1925, he was working as a dairyman in Ferndale.
The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program began in 1958, just prior to the celebration of Oregon's statehood centennial in 1959, to honor farm and ranch families with century-long connections to the land and to recognize Oregon's rich agricultural heritage. The program introduced a Sesquicentennial Award in 2008, on the eve of Oregon's 150th anniversary. As of 2015, 1,175 families have received the Century designation and 33 families have been honored with the Sesquicentennial award.
The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program is administered by the Oregon Agricultural Education Foundation and is supported in part by a partnership of the Oregon Farm Bureau, the State Historic Preservation Department, the Oregon Department of Agriculture, the Oregon Historical Society, and the Oregon Travel Information Council.
The inaugural issue of the Terra research magazine was issued in spring 2006 with Nicolas Houtman as the founding editor and a goal to highlight the stories, accomplishments, and impacts of Oregon State University researchers. Terra is published three times per year with issues released in the fall, winter, and spring. Summer issues were published in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2011. A companion website with non-print resources was launched at the same time as the print publication. Nick Houtman served as editor through the Spring 2018 issue. Ian Vorster assumed the role of Editor for the Fall 2018 issue.
Journalism courses were first offered at Oregon Agricultural College during the 1914/15 school year, and the Department of Industrial Journalism was created in 1918. The department's purpose was to train students "who wish to take positions on farm and trade journals, newspapers, and other publications, especially where writing on industrial subjects such as Agriculture, Home Economics, and Engineering is required" (1919/20 OAC Catalogue). On three occasions during the 1920s, the State Board of Higher Curricula was requested to consider restricting or eliminating industrial journalism at Oregon State. During the 1930s and 1940s, journalism at Oregon State was administered jointly with the program at the University of Oregon as part of the higher education reorganization in Oregon. In 1969, departmental majors were offered for the first time; subsequently, thirty technical minors were added. In 1992, the Journalism Department was eliminated as part of university wide budget reductions.
The Oregon State Chapter of the Blue Key Honor Society was established in 1934 to recognize male students with a strong academic background and who demonstrated "superior leadership and unselfish commitment to others". Women became eligible for membership in 1977; prior to that time, Mortar Board was the comparable organization at Oregon State for women students.
The Mortar Board Honor Society was established at Oregon State College in 1933 as a senior honor society for women, recognizing scholarship, leadership, and service. The Oregon State (Cap and Gown) Chapter has won seven Chapter of Excellence Awards from the national organization. In 1975, Mortar Board began accepting men and by 1978 the Oregon State chapter had three male members.
The Oregon State University Dad's Club was founded in October of 1933 during a time of financial difficulty and insufficient enrollment at Oregon State College. With an aim toward recruitment, the Dad's Club organized events (at times in association with the Mothers Club) as well as awarded scholarships in order to increase prospective student interest in attending Oregon State. The Club was active into the 1980s.
The Triad Club was organized in 1926 by School of Commerce faculty member A. C. Schmitt. Initially open only to male faculty members with two or more years of service at OSU, the club was established to further "fellowship, cooperation, and service" among the different departments of the University, the students, and the citizens of Corvallis. Holding weekly luncheon meetings where members and guest speakers offer programs and presentations, the club selects members through a membership committee. Reversing their original charter, the club began to admit women in 1978 with Lois McGill selected as the first female member.
Courses in political science, political economy, and government have been taught at Oregon State University since its founding in the 1860s. In 1908, political science courses were taught within the School of Commerce and a Department of Political Science was established within the School of Commerce in the 1910s. In the early 1930s, with the establishment of the Oregon State System of Higher Education, political science became a unit of the Lower Division and offered a limited number of courses. Political science at Oregon State expanded significantly during the 1950s and several faculty were hired. The School of Humanities and Social Sciences was established in 1959 with the Political Science Department as one of its units. An undergraduate degree in political science was first offered in 1966.
The Institute on World Affairs was held annually at Oregon State College from 1950 through 1959. The event was sponsored by Oregon State College, Corvallis community groups, and the Oregon Commission for UNESCO and included convocations, lectures, and discussion groups.
The Model United Nations is an academic simulation of the United Nations with the purpose of educating participants about current events, diplomacy, and communication. Oregon State University students participated in Model United Nations conferences in the 1950s through 1970s.
The beginnings of Greek letter social organizations at Oregon State University date back to the formation of the Gamma Delta Phi fraternity in 1905. This group was organized at a local level as more of a club than a recognized chapter and soon inspired the establishment of other local greek letter organizations such as Kappa Sigma Nu (1906), Phi Delta Sigma (1914), and Gamma Upsilon (1913). In 1915, two fraternities, Alpha Chi Omega and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, became the first at Oregon State Univerity to receive official recognition as chapters of national fraternal organizations. After these chapters set the groundwork for establishing a Greek presence at Oregon State University, the fraternity and sorority community grew rapidly. This growth is reflected in the 1925 Beaver Yearbook which lists 50 established Greek chapters (34 fraternities and 16 sororities) on campus that year.
The Panhellenic and Interfraternity Councils were established in 1917 and 1927, respectively, to serve as the student governing bodies of the Oregon State University Greek community. All sororities and fraternities have representation on the councils, which have the authority to offer direct recommendations to the university and regulate areas not covered by institutional policies.
Membership in the Greek community at Oregon State University has fluctuated over time owing to a number of factors. Chief among them has been the competition posed by the post-World War II growth in campus residence halls and a changing college culture emergent in the 1960s activist movements.
Until 1970, university administration of the Oregon State University Greek community resided in the hands of the Dean of Women and the Dean of Men. With the closure of these gender based student administrative offices, Oregon State University placed the management of fraternities and sororities under a single office, the Assistant Dean of Students. In 1998, an administrative reorganization that eliminated the Assistant Dean of Students position resulted in the establishment of a new office, the Greek Life Office. With the formation of this office, Oregon State University for the first time had an administrator devoted solely to the management of the Greek community. The Greek Life Office, in turn, served as one of the six "functional areas" managed by the Office of Student Leadership and Involvement. In 2015, the office was renamed the Center for Fraternity and Sorority Life.
Greek Life Coordinators have been Clay Torset (1998-2000), Robert Kerr (2000-2015), and Leslie Schacht-Drey (2015-present).
Theodore Rockwell was an engineer deeply involved in the genesis of atomic energy through his participation in the Manhattan Project at Oak Ridge and, later, the development of the United States' nuclear-powered naval fleet. He co-founded MPR Associates, Inc., an engineering firm, and served as vice president of Radiation, Science, and Health, Inc., a not-for-profit special interest group supporting the development and adoption of nuclear energy as a power source. He was widely recognized as an authority on nuclear power, a prominent pro-nuclear activist, a respected biographer of Admiral Hyman Rickover, and an active member of the international parapsychology community.
Rockwell was born in Chicago in 1922 and raised in Winnetka, Illinois where he attended New Trier High School. In 1939, he entered the chemical engineering program at Princeton University. He received his bachelor's degree in 1943 and his master's in 1944. Beginning in 1943, Rockwell worked as a process improvement engineer in the Electromagnetic Separation Pilot Plant at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL). Later, he was promoted to head of Radiation Shielding Engineering. In December 1945, the Saturday Evening Post published an article by Rockwell entitled "Frontier Life Among the Atom Splitters," one of the first accounts of work on the Manhattan Project at Oak Ridge. Rockwell wedded his wife, Mary, at Oak Ridge in 1946.
In 1949, Rockwell left ORNL to begin work at the U.S. Naval Reactors Headquarters where he worked with the U.S. Navy and the Atomic Energy Commission to develop the world's first nuclear-powered fleet. In 1953, he became director of the Navy's Nuclear Technology Division where he oversaw the design of cooling and shielding systems for reactors. In 1955, he was named Technical Director of the Navy's nuclear program and reported directly to Admiral Hyman Rickover. Rockwell was instrumental in the design and construction of numerous historically significant vessels including the USS Nautilus, the USS Enterprise, and the USS Long Beach. In the course of his work with the Navy, Rockwell edited several important offerings in nuclear reactor design including The Reactor Shielding Design Manual and The Shippingport Pressurized Water Reactor, participated in nuclear submarine and aircraft carrier sea trials, and observed the detonation of a nuclear weapon at the Nevada Test Site.
In 1964, Rockwell co-founded MPR Associates, Inc. with fellow Navy Reactors alums Harry Mandil and Robert Panoff. The firm helped the U.S. Navy design a maintenance program for its nuclear submarine fleet, designed and tested components of the Loss-of-Fluid Test (LOFT) reactor facility at the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, and conducted operations on post-meltdown Three Mile Island Reactor Two. During this time, Rockwell was also a research associate for the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, Chairman of the Atomic Industrial Forum’s Reactors Safety Task Force, and Consultant to the Joint Congressional Committee on Atomic Energy. He retired from MPR in 1987 but continued in an active role in the company until his death. In 1996, James Muckerheide and Ted Rockwell co-founded Radiation, Science, and Health, Inc as president and vice president respectively. RSH was conceived as a direct response to the anti-nuclear movement and intended to influence regulatory reform within the nuclear power industry. Among RSH's activities was a 2000-2003 legal challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency's regulation of radionuclides in drinking water.
In addition to his long career in nuclear science and engineering, Rockwell was also a successful author. He published The Rickover Effect (a biography of Admiral Rickover), Creating the New World (an autobiographical history of early nuclear engineering), The Virtual Librarian (a futuristic mystery novel) and Vice Versa (a triology of plays), as well as numerous scientific and popular articles. Rockwell also cultivated an interest in the field of parapsychology, loosely defined as the study of paranormal phenomena including but not limited to extrasensory perception, psychokinesis, and psychic healing. Rockwell was an avid participant in the parapsychology community and maintained membership in numerous related organizations, published widely within the field, and even conducted research into psychokinesis.
Rockwell was the recipient of numerous awards and honors during his lifetime including the first American Nuclear Society Lifetime Achievement Award (1986), a Distinguished Service Medal from the U.S. Navy and the Atomic Energy Commission (1964), an honorary doctorate from Tri-State College (1960), and the Edward Teller Award (2006), and also held several patents in the field of nuclear engineering. Rockwell passed away on March 31, 2013.
In 1931, it was proposed that all students, those completing liberal arts degrees and those completing technical degrees, would have a common freshmen and sophomore year curriculum known as the Lower Division. This proposal was part of a larger attempt to organize and unify the public higher education system in Oregon in order to limit the challenges faced by students transferring between universities or from a junior college. Establishment of a Lower Division curriculum was not initially supported by many Deans at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). They stated that it would disrupt the four-year timeline that had already been established for the completion of most technical degrees offered at OAC.
A number of suggestions were made by OAC faculty in order to improve upon the initial proposal. Notably, Dean M. Ellwood Smith of the School of Basic Arts and Sciences and later Dean of the Lower Division, theorized that Lower Division curricula could be integrated throughout the four years of schooling received by students rather than being required in the first two years.
By 1932 the Lower Division was established with M. Ellwood Smith acting as Dean. The majority of the college's administration and faculty had acknowledged that requiring Lower Division curricula as a part of every student's education would not disrupt the curriculum already in place within each School.
The Environmental and Molecular Toxicology (EMT) Department is an academic unit within the College of Agricultural Sciences. The EMT Department offers graduate degrees (Ph.D. and M.Sc.) and an undergraduate minor in toxicology; faculty and graduate student researchers conduct toxicology-based research on the effects of chemicals on humans and the environment. Research expertise within the department is focussed on molecular and mechanistic toxicology and environmental chemistry and ecotoxicology.
The current department has its roots in the Agricultural Chemistry Department which was established in 1883 when the first agricultural chemist was hired for the Oregon Agricultural College faculty. In 1998, the agricultural chemistry and toxicology programs were reorganized and renamed the Environmental and Molecular Toxicology Department.
Formed in 1948 as the Memorial Union Activity Council, the Memorial Union Program Council (MUPC) has served as the university's primary body in the coordination of student programming and campus wide events. The organization is managed by a combination of student officers elected at large and volunteers. These members serve on committees that are responsible in planning the combination of ongoing and one time MUPC events that occur on campus every year.
Among the annual events coordinated by the MUPC have included Mom's Weekend, Dad's Weekend, Student Leadership Conferences, the Children's Holiday Party, and the Battle of the Bands.
In 2016, the administration of the MUPC was transferred from the Memorial Union to the Office of Student Leadership and Involvement. While the change did not alter the core function of the organization, the council had to be renamed and is now known as the OSU Program Council. Another change that year was the renaming of the OSU Mom's and Dad's Weekends to the OSU Fall and Spring Family Weekends. As a part of this change, the organization of these two annual events has become a collaborative effort between the OSU Program Council and the Office of New Student Programs and Family Outreach.
The Websterian Literary Society was organized in October 1892, one of two societies created at the time (the other being the Ciceronian Literary Society) through a plan conceived by the college's president, John Bloss. It was a coeducational society that met bi-weekly with programs that included instrumental and vocal music, readings, declamations, and debates. The society initially had two chapters, and later added a third as membership increased. The Websterians probably disbanded in 1895 or 1896 when several new literary societies were formed.
Edward Sheriff Curtis was a notable photographer and ethnographer best known for his work The North American Indian a set of 20-volume photographic project that documents the Native-American tribes and their culture in North America. This monumental work was published over a span of 23 years between 1907 and 1930. Curtis was inspired to capture the native Indian people and their culture lest it would be infringed upon and disappear due to the white expansion and white culture. Curtis dedicated thirty years of his life traveling, exploring, documenting and living with the native tribes, which later ensued into one of his most celebrated work, ‘The North American Indian.
A self-taught photographer, Curtis was born in 1868 in Whitewater, Wisconsin. His interest in photography was evident from his early years as he assembled his own camera when he was only twelve years old with the help of the then popular manual Wilson’s Photographics. Curtis and his family moved to Puget Sound, Washington in 1887 and he later opened a portrait studio in 1892 in partnership with Thomas Guptill in Seattle. He renamed the photo studio to ‘Edward S. Curtis, Photographer and Photoengraver’ after he and partner Guptill parted ways in 1897. It was in Washington where Curtis first began photographing the local Native Americans. His images of Puget Sound Native Americans won him the grand prize at the National Photographic Convention of 1898.
In 1898, Curtis came across a group of scientists who were lost while he was photographing the Mt. Rainier. Anthropologist George Bird Grinnell, a noted expert in Native American cultures, was one of the scientists in the group. This happenstance meeting allowed Grinnell to learn about Curtis’ work. Grinnell invited Curtis to be the photographer for the Harriman Alaska Expedition of 1899 that was spearheaded by Edward H. Harriman and comprised of naturalist John Muir, and zoologist C. Hart Merriam in the team. Grinnell again appointed Curtis the following year to photograph Blackfeet Indian tribe in Montana. These experiences proved crucial for Curtis in perusing and bolstering his interest in studying and documenting the native tribes of North America.
Upon his return to Seattle, Curtis organized exhibitions featuring his work, published articles and gave lectures on native Indian tribes. His work garnered attention from many including the then President Theodore Roosevelt who asked Curtis to photograph family portraits. In 1906, Curtis reached out to John Pierpont Morgan, the railroad tycoon to finance his work, which set his project ‘The North American Indian’ in motion. It was decided that the project would be a set of 20 volumes of ethnographic text illustrated with photoengraving. The final two volumes of the series was published in 1930. During his 30 years of extensive fieldwork, Curtis is believed to have taken more than 40,000 photographs, 10,000 cylinder sound recordings of Indian speech and music and taken more than 125 trips across country for the making of the project. He was also known as the ‘Shadow Catcher’, a name he earned from the Native Americans. ‘In the Land of the Head Hunters’, is his another notable work which is a first feature-length film to capture the Native Indian people in North America that premiered in 1914. Curtis’ work celebrated Native American culture and left a valuable legacy that offered a rich insight into indigenous people of North America and their way of living.
Henry B. Miller was born April 11, 1854 in Sidney, Oregon. After graduating from Toledo High School in 1873, he joined his father's firm of bridge builders and contractors. Beginning in 1879, Miller supervised a Josephine County lumber company, a post he maintained even after being elected to the Oregon Legislature in 1891. In 1896, he left the Rogue River Valley for Corvallis, Oregon where he assumed the position of President of the State Agricultural College of Oregon following the resignation of John M. Bloss. Miller held the position of President for only eleven months before resigning. He went on to head the state board of horticulture, serve as consul-general in China, Japan, and Ireland, and act as Director of extension and publishing programs for the University of Oregon's School of Commerce. Miller retired in 1917 as a result of ill health and died in Portland in 1921.
Nuclear Free America (NFA) was an international clearinghouse and resource center founded in 1982, primarily to serve communities in the United States wishing to declare themselves nuclear free zones (NFZs) as part of a worldwide movement. NFA closed its doors in 1997. During its fifteen years of operation, more than 200 NFZ declarations passed within the territory of the United States, as part of over 4,500 declarations passed by local governments in 26 nations worldwide.
Local NFZs were established in solidarity with international treaties covering the Antarctic, Outer Space, the Sea-Bed, Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, Southeast Asia, the Pacific Islands, and Central Asia.
NFA, headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, and, from 1993-1997, with a second office in Salem, Oregon, served as the US affiliate and United Nations representative of the International Secretariat of the Nuclear Free Zone Local Authorities. Primary organizers were Chuck Johnson and Albert Donnay.
The early focus of NFA was assisting mostly symbolic declarations against nuclear weapons - part of national and international efforts to protest Cold War nuclear weapons policies of the US and its allies.
After the Cold War, fears about nuclear weapons waned, but concerns about storage of nuclear waste from more than 100 commercial nuclear power plants grew as proposed nuclear waste sites proliferated throughout the country. NFA assisted communities in developing NFZ declarations that served as symbolic buffers - or real barriers in the case of laws passed by sovereign Native American Nations.
To assist several communities that wished to end investment or purchase from nuclear weapons manufacturers, NFA researchers, working with Eagle Eye Publishers, developed an annual database of US nuclear weapons contractors that eventually expanded to include several specific definitions of weapons production and was used as the definitive measure by socially responsible investment companies and others to boycott weapons makers. This service continued in an attenuated form until 2003.
Since its designation as a land-grant institution of higher learning in 1868, Oregon State University has had 21 presidents, including 6 acting presidents. They have been William A. Finley, 1865-1872 (Finley was appointed president of the university's predecessor institution, Corvallis Academy, in 1865); Joseph Emery, acting, 1872; Benjamin L. Arnold, 1872-1892; John D. Letcher, acting, 1892; John M. Bloss, 1892-1896; H. B. Miller, 1896-1897; Thomas M. Gatch, 1897-1907; William Jasper Kerr, 1907- 1932; George W. Peavy, acting, 1932-1934, president, 1934-1940; Frank L. Ballard, 1940-1941; Francois A. Gilfillan, acting, 1941- 1942; August L. Strand, 1942-1961; James H. Jensen, 1961-1969; Roy A. Young, acting, 1969-1970; Robert W. MacVicar, 1970-1984; John V. Byrne, 1984-1995; and Paul G. Risser, 1996-2002; Timothy P. White, 2002-2003 (acting); Edward John Ray, 2003-2020; F. King Alexander, 2020-2021; Rebecca L. Johnson, 2021-2022 (acting).
The president is the chief executive officer of the university. From 1868 to 1929 the president reported to the college's Board of Trustees/Regents. Since the creation of the Oregon University System (formerly the Oregon State System of Higher Education) in 1929, the president has reported to the System's chancellor.
Courses in Military Science and Tactics were first taught at Oregon State in 1872. In 1873 Captain Benjamin D. Boswell was appointed Professor of Military Science and Tactics (1873-1876), the first U.S. Army officer on active duty to hold such a position in any land grant college in the West. The first cadet uniforms, worn at all times by male students, were gray with caps of the Civil War type. The more familiar blue uniforms were adopted in 1893.
ROTC at Oregon State University is made up of the Departments of Military Science, Naval Science, and Air Force Studies. In 1917, the Department of Military Sciences became responsible for all military training under the National Defense Act of 1916. The act expanded and standardized the training of Army Officers by colleges and universities and established the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC). During World War II, OSU became known as the "West Point of the West" for commissioning more officers than any other non-military academy in the nation. At the end of World War II, the Secretary of the Navy commissioned the Department of Naval Science (ROTC) on this campus to provide the training of both Navy and Marine Corps officers. On July 1, 1949, the U.S. Air Force activated an AFROTC unit that is now called the Department of Air Force Studies. As of 1999, OSU is one of only 48 colleges and universities that offers education for all three military departments.
Originally, two years of military science and tactics were required of all able-bodied male students, but since 1962, ROTC has been voluntary. Since 1965, two-year programs have been available for students who have finished two years of college but have not taken ROTC previously.
A number of the photographs in this series show cadets and military officers wearing the standard Sam Browne style leather belt and shoulder strap. The official US Army regulations for dress uniforms deleted this item to conserve on leather in a 1940 directive. From 1941 on, cloth belts attached to the dress uniform coat with metal buckles were standard issue. Many of the photographs that are found in the collection have been dated later than this 1940 cut off. Existing stocks of Sam Browne type belts were exhausted by the Quartermaster as well as officers having this type previously issued to them. Although officially not a part of the World War II era dress uniform, many photographs show officers and cadets still wearing the Sam Browne type belt in the 1941, 1942 and 1943 Beaver yearbooks. This unauthorized (not enforced, apparently) use of this type of belt can move the dating of some photographs from the interwar years to early World War II.
A number of the photographs in this series show cadets and military officers wearing the standard Sam Browne style leather belt and shoulder strap. The official US Army regulations for dress uniforms deleted this item to conserve on leather in a 1940 directive. From 1941 on, cloth belts attached to the dress uniform coat with metal buckles were standard issue. Many of the photographs that are found in this series have been dated later than the 1940 directive.
Leland F. Skillin worked as a mechanical engineer in the Portland District Office of the Army Corps of Engineers for 29 years. He served as Chief of the Mechanical Section for several years and retired in 1968. Skillin was born January 27, 1905 and died in 1996 in Cornelius, Oregon.
The Difference, Power, and Discrimination (DPD) Program at Oregon State University was established in the early 1990s as a means to deliver courses to address cultural and ethnic diversity as well as racism, discrimination, and their origins. The initiating action for the DPD Program was a November 1990 letter from concerned student leaders to OSU President John Byrne proposing several actions in response to recent incidents of discrimination and harassment at OSU. One of these proposals was the development of mandatory courses for all students. In the Spring of 1992, the Faculty Senate approved the incorporation of the Difference, Power, and Discrimination requirement into the Baccalaureate Core, contingent on the development of enough courses. The DPD Program was created to provide faculty with the training and resources to develop or modify courses to meet the DPD criteria; the intent was that courses would address issues of diversity and discrimination not only in society in general, but within specific academic disciplines. Annie Popkin was chosen as the first director in June 1992. By Fall 1994, within two years of its establishment, a sufficient number of DPD courses were in place for the DPD requirement to become a component of the Baccalaureate Core. A comprehensive assessment and evaluation of the Program was conducted in 1998.
In addition to faculty seminars, the DPD Program sponsors guest speakers, film festivals, informal workshops and seminars, and other special events.
The following individuals have served as Director of the DPD Program since its establishment: Annie Popkin (1994), Barbara Paige (1994-1996), Mina Carson (1996-1997), Joan Gross (1998-1999); Susan Shaw (1999-2002), Jun Xing (2002-2011), Michelle Bothwell (2011-2014), and Nana Osi-Kofi (2014-).
Gerald W. Williams worked for the U.S. Forest Service from 1979 until his retirement in 2005. From 1979 to 1993, he was a sociologist with the Umpqua and Willamette National Forests in Oregon; in 1993-1998, he served as the regional sociologist for the Pacific Northwest Regional Office in Portland; and from 1998 until his retirement in 2005 he was the national historian for the U.S. Forest Service in Washington, D.C. Williams designed and implemented a regional and national history program for the Forest Service which culminated in his appointment as national historian and his authorship of the centennial history of the Forest Service, The USDA Forest Service -- The First Century, in 2000. He has published more than 75 books, chapters, book reviews, and articles and conference papers exploring a variety of historical topics such as the Native American use of fire to manage environments, the Civilian Conservation Corps, and the U.S. Army's Spruce Production Division during World War I.
Williams is a native of Oregon and earned degrees from Southern Oregon University (B.A., Sociology; M.A. General Studies Social Science) and Washington State University (Ph.D., Sociology).
The Oregon State University Extension Association/4-H (OSUEA/4-H) is the professional association of extension workers, mostly extension agents, who work with the 4-H/Youth program in Oregon. Prior to 1986, the organization was known as the Oregon Extension Association/4-H (OEA/4-H). OSUEA/4-H is affiliated with the National Association of Extension 4-H Agents (NAE4-HA). OSUEA/4-H was organized in 1975 and in 1977 placed a bid to host the 1983 NAE4-HA Conference in Portland, Oregon. A full history of the organization is available in the collection.
Lieutenant Colonel Russell M. Tegnell was born in Helena, Montana in 1910. In the years that followed, his family moved to Hillsdale, Oregon and he ultimately graduated from Benson Polytechnic High School in 1928.
Tegnell enrolled at Oregon State College in 1932, majoring in chemical engineering. A very active student while at OSC, Tegnell served as President of the Memorial Union for the 1934-35 academic year. He was also a member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity, the Blue Key Honor Society, and the Alpha Delta Sigma National Professional Advertising fraternity. In addition, Tegnell served as the business manager for the junior class play, manager of the Oregon State Technical Record magazine, member of the Board of Directors for the Memorial Union, chairman for the 1935 OSC Homecoming, chairman of the OSC Associated Student Dance, and chairman of the OSC Socials Committee. Even with his busy extracurricular schedule, Tegnell still maintained high marks and made several honor rolls.
Tegnell completed his chemical engineering degree in 1936 and enlisted into the US Army in 1940, serving for twenty-three years before retiring in 1963. The nature of Russell’s work was such that the Tegnell family moved often, and at various points Russell and Katherine lived in Colorado, Alabama, and Germany before finally settling in Maryland with their two daughters. Russell Tegnell passed away in 1983, at the age of 73.
Katherine J. Smith was born in Dallas, Oregon in 1912. She graduated from Dallas High School in 1931 and began attending Oregon State College that same year. She initially majored in commerce, but switched to home economics during her sophomore year. She married Russell Tegnell in 1934 at Westminster House in Corvallis, Oregon.
Katherine received many awards for scholastic achievement during her years at OSC. Before even entering college, she recorded the freshman class high score on the English entrance exam and also received an award for her excellent transcription skills. She was a member of, and secretary for, the Sophomore Spurs Honor Division, obtained the Phi Chi Theta award, and was a member of the Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society and the Alpha Lambda Delta Honor Society. Additionally, she was a member of the Alpha Delta Pi sorority. She obtained her home economics degree from Oregon State in 1937. She passed away at the age of 86 in 1998.
Administrative History:
The Forestry Club was organized in 1906, the same year that a 4-year course in forestry was first offered at Oregon Agricultural College. The first yearbook was published in the spring of 1920 with the title Forest Club Annual. In the fall of 1920, the club held a contest to find a more appropriate name. Roger D. Healy, then a junior in forestry, suggested The Annual Cruise and that name was adopted. The yearbook ceased publication with the 1975 volume. A brief and sporadic revival 20 years later resulted in the publication of yearbooks in 1996, 1999, and 2000 by the College of Forestry.
The Benton County Courthouse is located at 120 NW 4th Street in downtown Corvallis on land originally donated to the city by its founders, Joseph Avery and William Dixon. Designed by Portland architect Delos D. Neer, the courthouse project was dedicated on July 4, 1888 and completed in Fall 1889, thus replacing the county's first courthouse building, which had been erected in 1854. The new building was constructed using local stone and brick, and was meant, in Neer's words, to evoke "an Italian villa with a military influence." Total costs for the construction, including furnishings, ran to about $70,000, which reputedly made Benton County's courthouse project the second most expensive in Oregon's history to that point.
From 1977-1979, the facility was the focus of a major restoration and renovation project, overseen by local architect Cy Stadsvold. For his efforts, Stadsvold received the American Institute of Architect's "Significant Building Award" in 1979. Stadsvold's work also contributed to the building's nomination, in 1977, to the National Register of Historic Places. An icon of the mid-Willamette Valley, Benton County's courthouse remains the oldest in operation anywhere in the state of Oregon.
Richard Mengler (1911-2001) served as City Attorney of Corvallis from 1952-1954, District Court Judge from 1954-1959 and Circuit Court Judge from 1965 to his retirement in 1981. Mengler also served three temporary terms on the Oregon Supreme Court. Born in Nebraska to impoverished itinerant farmers, Mengler earned a bachelor's degree in English from Kearney State College in 1933 and, in 1939, a master's in Education from the University of Oregon. Following a two-year stint as vice-principal at Corvallis High School and another two years of service in the Pacific theatre during World War II, Mengler worked toward a law degree, which he received from the University of Oregon in 1952. For the better part of the next thirty years, Mengler pursued a career in law throughout the Pacific Northwest, though Corvallis always remained his home. Mengler's close association with the Benton County Courthouse stemmed both from decades working in the building as well as his many years' service as chair of its Preservation Committee.
Twin brothers Edmund Gravelle (1913-2005) and Elroy Gravelle (1913-1991) were grandchildren of Odina Gravel, a carpenter who helped to build the Benton County Courthouse.
Gladys (Mack) Hunt (1909-2004) was the daughter of Herschel Mack, Benton County Clerk from 1926-1932. As a teenager, Gladys spent a summer working for her father in the Benton County Courthouse.
Dorothy Moore (b. 1901) and Louise (Moore) Forland (b. 1913) were daughters of A.J. (Albert Jordan) Moore, Benton County Clerk from 1932-1948.
Magdalen (Mann) Schultze (1912-2005) was the daughter of Thomas Mann, a contractor who helped to build the Benton County Courthouse.


The Alumni Association was founded in February 1873 and the first permananent officers were chosen in June of that year: Hugh M. Finley, President; George F. Burkhart, Vice President; W.F. Herrin, Secretary; and Oscar L. Ison, Treasurer. A list of "Alumni et Alumnae" and current addresses was included in each edition of the college catalogue. In 1914 a formal constitution was adopted that provided for a five-member board. E.B. Lemon became the first regular alumni secretary in 1915 and started the alumni magazine, the OAC Alumnus. In 1926, the alumni magazine became the Oregon State Monthly; it was renamed the Oregon Stater in 1940 and has retained that title since.
In 1929, the alumni office was moved from the Commerce Building to the newly completed Memorial Union. The CH2M Hill Alumni Center was completed on campus in 1997; it was built as a conference and meeting center and as the home of OSU Alumni Association events and administrative offices.
The Alumni Association has been lead by several Alumni Secretaries and Executive Directors, including Godfrey Hoerner, 1919-1921; Zelta Feike Rodenwold, 1921-1926; E.C. Allworth, 1926-1936; George T. Scott, 1936-1938; Warren Reid, 1938-1943; Eunice Courtright, 1943-1946; John Fenner, 1946-1948; Robert Knoll, 1948-1961; Crawford H. ("Scram") Graham, 1961-1978; Donald S. Wirth, 1978-1999; Stephen Smith, 1999-2000; Dwayne Foley, 2000-2004; and Jeffrey S. Todd, beginning in 2004.
The Portland Brewing Company was incorporated by Fred Bowman and Art Larrance in 1983; it opened in 1986. Hart Brewing was founded by Beth Hartwell and Tom Baune in Kalama, Washington in 1984; the name was changed to Pyramid Breweries in 1996. The Portland brewery facility closed in 2021. At various points, these companies merged and purchased by other companies.
Portland Brewing Company
The Portland Brewing Company was incorporated by Fred Bowman and Art Larrance in 1983. Bert Grant, owner of Yakima Brewing Company, was hired in 1985 as a technical consultant to assist in designing the brewhouse. The company was initially funded by a small public offering in 1985 that raised $125,000.
In 1986, the brewpub opened at 1339 NW Flanders Street in an old creamery building in Northwest Portland; they only produced draft beer. In 1988, they began bottling their flagship Portland Ale in 32-ounce package and in 1989 began bottling it as a 12-ounce 6-pack. In 1991, Tony Adams and Mac and Scott MacTarnahan invested capital in the brewery, and that same year the company embarked on an ambitious financial plan to build a new brewery. In 1992, they expanded their distribution network to the seven western states and won a gold medal at the Great American Beer Festival with MacTarnahan’s Ale.
With a growing market and need for increased production, in 1992, they purchased brewing equipment from Sixenbräu in Nördlingen, Germany, including copper brewing vessels, and began production of a new brewery at 2730 NW 31st Avenue with an expected 65,000-barrel annual capacity, which was more than double the production at the Flanders facility. The new brewery met its full production level in 1993. In spring of 1995, Portland Brewing purchased and installed a new state of the art bottling line from Krones Inc., which could rinse, fill, cap, and label up to 250 bottles a minute, roughly twice the amount of the old line. With the addition of equipment and increased tank space, by 1995 the brewing capacity was 100,000 barrels annually and by 1996 was 135,000 barrels.
The company embarked on several campaigns to raise money for expansion and renovation projects. In 1992, the company offered 100,000 shares of common stock to Oregon residents (which sold in 32 days); the next year, they offered an additional 100,000 shares to Oregon and Washington residents (which sold in 60 days). These two offerings raised $1 million. In 1994, they offered an additional 490,000 shares to finance increased production capabilities, marketing efforts, and German style beer hall and restaurant; they raised $2.8 million. In 1995, they raised $2.9 million, which brought the total number of shareholders to approximately 5,500, number of outstanding shares to 2.1 million, and the total dollars raised by investors to almost $7 million. The NW Flanders Street facility was remodeled in summer 1996 and a new kitchen was added.
By 1998 the company was in financial trouble and MacTarnahan bought $3.5 million in debt in exchange for stock; as a result, Portland Brewing began using MacTarnahan labeling. Portland Brewing Company merged with Saxer Brewing Company of Lake Oswego in 2000.
Hart Brewing and Pyramid Breweries
Hart Brewing was founded by Beth Hartwell and Tom Baune in Kalama, Washington in 1984; the name of the brewery was a contraction of Hartwell. Five investors from Seattle acquired Hart Brewing in 1989 and then purchased Thomas Kemper Brewing Company from Poulsbo, Washington in 1992. They also moved to a new, larger facility in 1992 and by 1994, Hart Brewing was the fourth largest craft brewery in the United States. In 1995, Hart Brewing opened a new brewery in Seattle, known as the Seattle Alehouse (closed in 2020). Also in 1995, the company became a publicly traded company on the NASDAQ exchange, issuing 2.6 million shares. The name was changed to Pyramid Breweries in 1996. In 1997, Pyramid Brewery opened a brewing facility and restaurant in Berkeley, California (closed in 2015).
Hart Brewing’s first beer was Pyramid Pale ale, and it was followed in 1985 by Pyramid Wheaten Ale, the first year-round wheat beer made in America since Prohibition. Pyramid Snow Cap Ale was released in 1986. They began making a Hefeweizen in 1993 and an Apricot Ale in 1994.
Portland Brewing and Pyramid Breweries
In 2004, MacTarnahan, then 88 years old, sold the Portland Brewing Company to Pyramid Breweries of Seattle. The Portland Brewing facility was renamed “MacTarnahan's Brewing Company.” MacTarnahan died later that year.
In 2008, Pyramid Breweries was acquired by Magic Hat Brewing Company, which was subsequently bought by North American Breweries of Rochester, New York in 2010. In 2012, the company was purchased by the Costa Rican company Florida Ice & Farm Co. In 2013, the brewery announced it would return to the Portland Brewing Company name.
After declining revenue, the company closed the Portland taproom and restaurant in 2018 and ceased production entirely in 2021.
The Course in Pharmacy was established at Oregon Agricultural College in 1898 with a four-year program leading to a B.S. degree in pharmacy, at a time when most pharmaceutical curricula were only 2-year programs. In 1951, Oregon State College inaugurated a five-year curriculum leading to a B.S. degree in pharmacy -- nine years before the five-year curriculum became the minimum requirement for all U.S. pharmacy schools. In 1999, the College of Pharmacy began offering a four-year entry-level Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) instead of a B.S. degree.
Ernst Thedore Stuhr served on the faculty of the Oregon State College (OSC) School of Pharmacy from 1927 to 1944 as Assistant Professor of Pharmacy (1927-1930) and Associate Professor (1930-1944) of Pharmacology and Pharmacognosy. His major area of research, medicinal plants, was reflected in the many articles that he wrote for scholarly and trade journals.
Novelist Bernard Malamud was an English professor at Oregon State College from 1949 to 1961. During this time he wrote three novels: The Natural (1952), The Assistant (1957), and A New Life (1961) as well as a collection of short stories, The Magic Barrel (1959) for which he received the National Book Award. He was presented OSU's Distinguished Service Award in 1969.
English has been part of the curriculum since the founding of the University in 1868. In the 1960s, the English Department became the first liberal arts department to offer a bachelor's degree.
F. E. "Earl" Price retired in 1965 after forty-three years of service to Oregon State University. Price graduated from Oregon Agricultural College and worked for the Cooperative Extension Service as a soils and irrigation specialist. In 1928 he became Professor of Agricultural Engineering in the Department of Agricultural Engineering and, in the 1930s, was appointed Dean in charge of agricultural instruction. In 1950 Price was again promoted to Dean of Agriculture and Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station and the Oregon State University Extension Service.
Dramatic productions began at Oregon Agricultural College in the 1890s; the Mask and Dagger Club was formed in 1912 "to encourage and promote dramatic work." A theater program was formally established in 1920 as part of a new Public Speaking and Dramatics Department (now the Speech Communication Department). Dramatic productions were presented at the Majestic Theater in downtown Corvallis and a small theater in Benton Hall until 1950 when a campus structure was remodeled into the Mitchell Playhouse. The University Theatre moved to Withycombe Hall in 1991 after Mitchell Playhouse was declared unsafe.
George W. Moore was a research geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey from 1951 until his retirement in 1987, when he became a Courtesy Professor of Geology at Oregon State University. Moore earned BS (1950) and MS (1951) degrees from Stanford University and completed his Ph.D. at Yale University in 1960.
Moore's research specialty was tectonics and he is known for his contributions to the theory of plate tectonics, especially understanding the significance of tectonic terranes. He authored more than 230 publications ranging from scientific papers to geological maps and map compilations as well as works of general interest about geological catastrophes, a book on speleology (the study of caves), and a manuscript on wine and terroir in Oregon.
A native of Palo Alto, California, Moore married Ellen Moore, also a geologist, in 1960. George died in an automobile accident near Monroe, Oregon, in 2007.
Sharon E. Rosenkoetter joined the faculty of Oregon State University in 1999 as an Associate Professor in the Human Development and Family Sciences. Rosenkoetter specialized in transition planning for children with special needs and served as director for several projects funded by the U.S. Department of Education, including Early Childhood Leadership Directions and Rural Links. Rosenkoetter retired from Oregon State in 2010.
Rosenkoetter earned a B.A. from Valparaiso University in 1966, an MA in special education and learning disabilities from the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana in 1971, and a Ph.D. from the University of Kansas in 1991. She was a faculty member at the Associated Colleges of Central Kansas from the late 1980s until she came to Oregon State University in 1999.
Mount St. Helens is an active volcano located in the Cascade mountain range in southwest Washington state. For centuries a sacred space to the region's indigenous communities, the mountain became a popular site for recreation during the twentieth century, with many flocking in particular to Spirit Lake on its north side. In March 1980, a series of small earthquakes - followed by episodes of steam venting - indicated that the long dormant volcano was becoming geologically active again. On May 18, 1980, Mount St. Helens famously erupted in spectacular fashion, ultimately losing more than 1,300 feet in elevation from its peak, unleashing a fearsome landslide, and creating a cloud of ash that blanketed communities across the Pacific Northwest and eventually circulated around the world. At least fifty-seven people were killed by the explosion, with property damage estimates in the billions of dollars.
On August 26, 1982, an act of Congress designated the mountain and 110,000 acres that surrounded it as the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument. This declaration restricted development activities within the monument to permit natural processes to "proceed substantially unimpeded" so that research could track responses of the land to the eruption. The resulting wealth of research findings have been conducted in part by the following individuals, who were interviewed for this collection in 2015.
Lynn Burditt has served in a variety of leadership positions in the National Forest System of the US Forest Service, including tenures as Ranger at the Blue River Ranger District on the Willamette National Forest and Deputy Forest Supervisor on the Gifford Pinchot National Forest where the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument is located.
Charlie Crisafulli, an ecologist with the US Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Research Station and based at Mount St. Helens since the early 1980s, has conducted his own studies on a wide variety of topics, facilitated work of many others, spearheaded local and broader outreach programs, and advanced the field of volcano ecology globally.
Virginia Dale began studying Mount St. Helens while a graduate student at the University of Washington and continued during her career as a scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. Focusing on vegetation in the debris avalanche, Dale was a contributing author and editor for two books providing overviews of ecological research at Mount St. Helens.
Jerry Franklin began his relationship with Mount St. Helens on family and Boy Scout camping trips, studied the vegetation as an early-career Forest Service scientist and later as a professor at the University of Washington, led Andrews Experimental Forest research program in the 1970s and early 1980s, and helped lead studies at Mount St. Helens.
Bob Parmenter was an ecology graduate at Utah State University when Mount St. Helens erupted in 1980. Soon thereafter, he began studies of animals in collaboration with Charlie Crisafulli and others that ran for decades over his career as an ecologist with the US Geological Survey.
Fred Swanson had a long career as a research geologist with the Pacific Northwest Research Station, focusing in particular on the geology-ecology interface in ecosystem research groups at Mount St. Helens and the H.J. Andrews Experimental Forest. His roles included conducting research, administration, and communications, including engagements of artists and creative writers in those places.
In 1959 Honors work began in the School of Science which developed into a joint program between the School of Humanities and Social Sciences in 1964. The University Honors Program was established campus-wide in 1966 and offered enriched educational opportunities to students of superior scholastic ability or of particular academic focus. In addition to participation in extra-curricular honors colloquia and seminars, students were required to complete a Senior Honors Thesis. The Honors Program was terminated at the end of the 1990-1991 academic year due to budget constraints. A new University Honors College was established for fall 1995. Today, the Honors College operates as a small degree-granting college, within Oregon State University, which offers an Honors Baccalaureate Degree in any undergraduate major.
In September 1965 Leonard J. Weber, Professor of Engineering, was the chair of the newly established All University Honors Committee. This committee was initially assigned to study the feasibility of establishing a University-wide honors program at Oregon State University. Once the University Honors Program was established, the Honors Committee became responsible for the general oversight of the program. In the fall of 1970 Leonard J. Weber became the director of the Honors Program.
The Facets of Honor, also known as FACETS, was established for students in the University Honors Program. FACETS recognized and encouraged superior academic achievement, promoted fellowship and the exchange of ideas, facilitated communication between students and faculty associated with the Honors Program and offered advisement to faculty concerning the program.
Lisa Allen is a brewer at Heater Allen Brewing in McMinnville. Allen was born in Portland and grew up in Tualatin, Oregon, but spent her junior year in Moraga, California. Allen was strong academically in science and math, but was also interested in history and English. She started at Oregon State University in 2001, studying Anthropology/Archaeology. After she graduated she lived in New Zealand for six months, where she worked in the restaurant industry. After returning to the U.S., Allen got a summer job at Pelican Brewing; she helped open the Monroe McMenamins in Corvallis in 2006. Allen also worked in the wine industry, starting with harvest and then working in tasting rooms, while simultaneously studying for the GRE and applying for grad school in historic preservation. She was accepted into a graduate program in England for historic preservation, but by then had decided to pursue a career in wine. In 2009, Allen left the wine industry to join her father at Heater Allen Brewing, which he'd opened in 2007 after a long career as an investment banker.
Rick Allen is the owner and head brewer at Heater Allen in McMinnville, Oregon. He was born in Palo Alto, California and lived there for most of his childhood. He graduated from Woodside High School and though he was interested in a variety of subjects, including chemistry and meteorology, he chose to study business at Oregon State University. He was a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. The Allen family has a deep connection to Oregon State University: Allen's grandfather went to OAC (Class of 1923) and his grandmother studied Home Economics; his parents both attended OSU, meeting during their freshman year at an "alternative Thanksgiving" retreat and marrying during their junior year; his two brothers attended OSU; he met his wife at OSU; and their daughter, Lisa, attended in the early 2000s. After university, Allen took a position as an investment banker in Portland, with short moves to Washington and California for employment; he left that field in the early 2000s. An avid home brewer, Allen considered a second career as a vintner, but decided to open a brewery in 2007 in McMinnville, Oregon.
Kyle Almlie is a home brewer and graduate teaching assistant in the chemistry department of Oregon State University. He grew up in Chico, California, where he stayed through college graduation from California State University-Chico with a B.S. in Chemistry in 2012. He moved to Oregon State University that same year to study Analytical Chemistry and work as a Graduate Teaching Assistant.
Warren Aney is alum of Oregon State University, who received his Master’s degree in the 1970s. He went on to work as a wildlife ecologist, and later worked for a Portland-based travel agency leading wine tours. Aney met vintner and brewer Charles Coury, who started Oregon's first post-Prohibition microbrewery in 1980, through their mutual interest in wine.
John Annen is a fourth generation hop grower in Mount Angel. Annen’s family came to the area in the late 19th century from Wisconsin and Minnesota, following the priests and sisters who moved to Oregon when the Catholic Abbey was established. He comes from a large family, with ten siblings and an extended family with lots of cousins; most of his siblings stayed in farming, but Annen was left alone to run the farm in the mid 1990s. He has two sons, and one has taken over the management of the farm.
Natalie Baldwin is the Head Brewer at Burnside Brewing. She grew up near Vail, Colorado, where her dad was a ski instructor. While she was growing up she spent a lot of time outdoors, skiing and mountain biking; she was also interested in art and photography, but by the end of high school decided to pursue education in Biological Chemistry at University of Colorado in Denver. She moved to Portland in 2012 and started working at Pints Brewing Company in 2013; she stayed there through 2015, when she left to take a position at Burnside Brewing.
Fred Bowman co-founded Portland Brewing Company in 1986. Bowman was born in San Francisco; moved to Montana; to Empire, Oregon in elementary school; and finally settled in Hillsboro, where he has spent most of his life. Bowman's first job was for worked for a Volkswagen distributor in high school, which fit with his interest in cars and mechanics. In addition to cars, Bowman was also interested in biology and music, playing trumpet in the youth symphony. He travelled through Europe after graduating from High School, sparking another lifelong interest in beer and brewing. He returned in time to start school at Oregon State University, but soon transferred to University of Oregon and then again to Portland State University. He returned to his job with Volkswagen, a position he held for 16 more years. He began home brewing in the late 1970s and after leaving Volkswagen Bowman, Art Larrance, and Jim Goodwin joined forces to open a brewery. They hired Bert Grant (Yakima Brewing) as a consultant, which resulted in a licensing agreement for them to brew Grant's beer in Portland; this ended in the early 1990s. Bowman and other early microbrewers were instrumental in the passage of Oregon's Brewpub Bill in 1985, which allowed breweries to brew and sell beer onsite. By 1998 the company was in financial trouble, and it was sold in 2004. Bowman had been employed as a brewing consultant, work he continued to do after the brewery was sold.
Brad Clack is a retired hop buyer for S.S. Steiner (now Hopsteiner). Clack's family did farm work on the Oregon coast before moving to Salem, where Clack has spent most of his life. He started working in the hop industry in 1978 and has deep relationships with growers and hops brokers. He retired in 2015, and his son has taken over his duties at S.S. Steiner.
Jeff Clawson has worked for the Department of Food Science and Technology as the research brewery and food processing manager since 1993. Clawson grew up in Davis, California, where his father was a University of California Extension Agent and his mom worked as a department administrative assistant. He moved to Oregon to study Agribusiness at Eastern Oregon College (now Eastern Oregon University) in La Grande. It was in college that Clawson took a class in brewing, which became a personal hobby and ultimately led to a career. He transferred to Oregon State University to finish his B.S., adding a Food Science minor and working with Mina McDaniel on sensory analysis. After graduating in 1988 he worked at NORPAC Foods in Stayton, Oregon. He returned to OSU for graduate school in 1991 to study Rangeland Resources and Water Quality; he finished in 1993, and took a position with the Department of Food Science and Technology.
Bill Coleman is part of a large multigenerational hop growing family, primarily based in St. Paul and Mt. Angel. He was born and raised in the area and all the children worked on the farm; many of the family members are still actively involved in Coleman Agriculture. The Coleman farms experienced rapid expansion from the 1950s through the 1970s, and as a result branches of the family began to become more specialized in the work they do; Bill Coleman has always been interested in and excelled at mechanics, and he developed new pieces of equipment and processes that have made the farm and the industry more efficient. In addition to the work on the farm and involvement in the church community, Coleman has also travelled extensively.
John Coleman is a hop grower based in St. Paul, Oregon. He manages the hops and perennial crops for Coleman Ag, a large family run company. Coleman grew up in St. Paul and spent most of his extra time working on the farm. He went to St. Paul Parochial and attended St. Paul High School, where he was active in the Future Farmers of America. He attended Oregon State University, where he was in the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity and studied Political Science; he graduated in 1988. He has held various positions in the family business, but is currently the Perennial Crops Manager.
Denny Conn is a home brewer, author, and podcaster. Conn was born in Newton, Iowa, where his father and grandfather ran a lumberyard; Conn worked there as a child. Conn played guitar in rock bands, performed in bars and talent shows as a kid. He graduated from high school in 1980 and attended Iowa State University. He initially wanted to be a chemistry teacher, but later decided he wanted to be an English teacher. He dropped out of college part way through because he wanted to play in rock bands. He moved to Eugene, Oregon, where he attended Lane Community College for electronic technician coursework. He got a job helping a friend’s digital audio technology company, and they toured with Split Ends, Supertramp, and Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. When he returned, he worked at a video store, the Hult Center, and opened a recording studio. His wife bought him a Pike Place Brewing home brewing kit from Costco in 1998; brewing made sense to him because of his chemistry education, his love of cooking, and his experimental nature. He learned about different styles and methods, and soon began to experiment in a rather radical way. One method was batch sparging, which turned out to be a divisive one for home brewers; Conn started publishing his information about batch sparging online in 2003 to 2004, and people criticized it. He also experimented with ingredients, including rye for a Rye IPA, which John Maier from Rogue liked; Conn’s RIPA as inspiration for one of Rogue’s anniversary beers. He's also experimented with equipment, and is a big fan of the Pico-Brew. He and his friend Drew Beechum have co-written the books Experimental Brewing and Homebrew All-stars; they also have a podcast, Experimental Homebrewing.
Ted Cox was born in Eugene, Oregon, but soon moved to California to help his aunt manage her ranch. He graduated from Chaffey Junior College in 1967 and from La Verne College with a B.A. in Physical Education in 1969. He did two tours with the Peace Corps (1969-1973) in Sierra Leone and Belize. In Sierra Leone he worked in a teacher's college and in Belize he coached track and field, helping to create a physical fitness manual that is still used today. He returned to Oregon in 1973 to attend graduate school at Oregon State University, graduating with his master's in Physical Education in 1976; his thesis was entitled "Physical fitness parameters of male youth in USA and Belize, Central America." He was also the women's volleyball coach and taught both physical education and first aid at Linn Benton Community College (1975-1976). He opened the Old World Deli in 1977 and soon bought the building, which houses shops and the Oregon Trail Brewery (established 1987). He is the author of three books: When British Honduras became Belize: A Peace Corps memoir, Murray Loop: Journey of an Oregon Family, and The Toledo Incident of 1925: Three days that made history in Toledo, Oregon.
Chris Crabb is the Public Relations Director of the Oregon Brewers Festival and owner of the firm Crabbsoup Public Relations. She grew up in Beaverton, Oregon and attended Sunset High School. In 1991 she graduated from the University of Oregon with a BA in Journalism, with an emphasis on Public Relations. She was the PR Director and Account Manager for Campbell Production/Consulting Group, and has been working as a PR Associate at Weinstein PR since 2009. In 2003, she started her own firm Crabbsoup. Her career has focused on the hospitality field, with an emphasis on food and beverage events and promotion. She's worked with the Oregon Brewers Festival, Holiday Ale Festival, and BrewFest in the Park, as well as many other individual brewery clients.
Blake Crosby is a 5th generation hop grower who grew up on his family's farm in Woodburn, Oregon. Crosby attended the University of Oregon, where he earned a B.A. in History in 2008, and Willamette University, where he earned an M.B.A. in 2013. He is the CEO and President of Crosby Hop Farm.
Brian Crosby is a fourth generation hop family member and works at Crosby Hop Farm LLC as an accounts manager. Crosby was born in Portland, Oregon and grew up on the family farm in Woodburn. Hops production was a community and family effort, and he and his siblings all worked on the farm. After graduation, Crosby left Woodburn and joined the Navy; after three years he left the military and went to Oregon State University to study Civil Engineering; while there he also played rugby. He worked for a construction company in Portland, moved to Bend to run their local office, left the industry during the 2008 recession, and spent the next several years working in construction and earning a degree in Financial Planning. He returned to the farm in the late 2000s as a financial manager and salesperson.
William Dettwyler is the owner of Codus Medicus, Inc. He grew up on a hop farm in Silverton, Oregon, where he worked on his family farm and processing facilities in the 1930s through the 1950s, when they sold the farm. He graduated from the Oregon Institute of Technology with an Associate of Science degree in Clinical Laboratory Science/Medical Technology/Technologist in 1958. He has done lab work for since the early 1950s, and has owned Codus Medicus since 1961; his work has allowed him to travel extensively through the U.S.
Otto Fredrick “Fred” Eckhardt (1926-2015) was a well-known advocate, critic, educator, mentor, and historian. Born in Everett, Washington, Eckhardt traveled widely with the U.S. Marine Corps before moving to Portland, Oregon. After leaving careers as a swim instructor and studio photographer, Eckhardt began photographing new Northwest pubs and writing about beer full time for various brewing publications. Eckhardt rose to prominence in the brewing community with his 1970 A Treatise on Lager Beers, a guide to homebrewing and the evolution of lager beer (a hobby which was notably still illegal at the time of publication). His 1989 The Essentials of Beer Style is still considered a required read for brewers and beer lovers alike. A beloved member of the brewing community, Eckhardt has been called the icon, pioneer, and founding father of craft beer, as well as the much beloved “Dean of American beer writing.”
Jeff Edgerton is the Brewmaster at BridgePort Brewing Company in Portland, Oregon. Edgerton grew up in Canby, where he was surrounded by agriculture and hop yards. After graduating from Canby High School, Edgerton moved to Corvallis to attend Oregon State University, where he majored in Microbiology; he graduated in 1987. After leaving OSU he took a job at the Blitz-Weinhard brewery, working here as a Lab Tech, Quality Assurance Manager, and Brewery Microbiologist from 1989 to 1998; the brewery closed in 1999. In 1998, Edgerton became the Quality Assurance Manager at BridgePort Brewing, six years later he became Assistant Brewmaster, and then in 2010 became the Brewmaster.
Emily Engdahl is the Executive Director of The Pink Boots Society. She grew up in Portland, Oregon, where she was surrounded by family, art, culture, food, and gardens. After graduating from Grant High School in 1994 she went to Southern Oregon University for a year, but didn't continue her studies there. She returned to Portland in the late 1990s, and in 2000 started working at Professional Fiduciary Services providing social service coordination for mentally ill or elderly clients. In 2003, she graduated from Marylhurst University with a degree in Communications and a certificate in Conflict Resolution. She began home brewing in 2010 or 2011, and fermentation soon became core to her work. In addition to working as a freelance graphic designer, Engdahl was the co-founder of #pdxbeergeeks, a community-based beer blog, worked as an event development coordinator for Women Enjoying Beer, was a beer blogger for "1859: Oregon's Magazine," and was the creator and owner of Oregon Beer Country. In 2013, she became the Executive Director of the Pink Boots Society.
Teri Fahrender grew up in a German-American family in Wisconsin. She has a B.A. in Business Administration from the University of Wisconsin, Eau Claire and earned a certificate in Brewing Technology from the Siebel Institute of Technology in Chicago. She worked as the Brewmaster at Berkeley's Golden Gate Brewing Company in 1989 before becoming the Head Brewer at Triple Rock Brewing Company (1989-1990). She moved to Eugene to become the Brewmaster at the Steelhead Brewing Company (1990-2007) and worked as a brewing consultant before becoming a Territory Sales Manager for Country Malt/Great Western Malting (2009-2015). In September 2015, she became the Malt Innovation Center Manager at Great Western Malting. She founded the Pink Boots Society in 2007, which is a non-profit organization dedicated to education and support of women in the brewing industries.
Irene Firmat is the founder and CEO of Full Sail Brewing Company, located in Hood River, Oregon. She was born in Havana, Cuba and moved to New York when she was 3. She moved to Oregon in the early 1980s for a job as a buyer for the department store Meier and Frank. After several years she decided to change careers; inspired by the food and drink culture that was emerging in the Northwest, she found partners to start a brewpub in Hood River in 1987, aptly called Hood River Brewing Co. David Logsdon, who later founded the yeast company Wyeast and Logsdon Farmhouse Ales, was their original brewer. Soon Logsdon left and brewer Jamie Emmerson replaced him. Emmerson and Firmat soon married, living in Portland and commuting to Hood River. Full Sail became employee-owned in 1999; in 2015, the employees voted to sell to Oregon Craft Brewers Co., a local investment group.
Gary Fish is the founder and board president of Deschutes Brewery. He was born and raised in Northern California, where his father was a wine grape grower and a part of the state's modern wine renaissance. He moved to Utah to attend University of Utah, working his way through college waiting tables; he stayed to work in the restaurant industry. He and his wife returned to the West Coast in the late 1980s, settling in Bend with the goal of opening a brewpub after his parents had travelled through the city returning from a college class reunion at Oregon State University. Deschutes Brewery opened in 1988, with Fish running the restaurant and John Harris as the first brewer; the first years were rocky, the company soon saw success and expanded. In 2008, they opened a brewpub in Portland and in 2016 announced plans to build a new plant in Roanoke, North Carolina. Fish built a company with community values in mind, and has been recognized as a civic leader in Central Oregon and beyond; in 2012 he was awarded the Civic Leadership Award and the Governors Gold Awards. Fish has also been quite involved in the brewery profession too; from 2014 to 2016 he was the Chairman of the Brewers Association. Fish stepped down as President and CEO in 2017, but he's staying on as the Founder and Board Member.
Mick Flanagan is a mechanic at BridgePort Brewing Company. He was born in Sydney, Australia and spent his childhood living there and in the United States. He graduated from high school in Portland in 1987 and has worked for the brewery since 1989.
John Foyston is a beer culture freelance journalist in Portland, Oregon. He was born in a small town in East British Columbia; his family moved to Vancouver before settling in Portland in 1956. He attended Sunset High School and then studied Liberal Arts at the University of Oregon. He had a variety of jobs (mechanic, musician) before becoming an Oregonian Staff writer in 1994, a position he left in 2015 to pursue freelance work full time.
Dana Garves is a brewing chemist who owns and operates BrewLab, a company that provides chemical analyses for breweries, cideries, meaderies, and home brewers. Garves has always been interested in chemistry, starting with early successes in science and math classes in the Seattle area. She joined the Science Olympiad team in high school, serving as the club president her junior and senior years, and was enrolled in the International Baccalaureate program. She also played competitive softball through the end of high school, and was active in community service and volunteering. She began coursework at the University of Oregon with a goal of being a high school chemistry teacher, and helped out with a UO STEM summer camps for girls. She graduated with a degree in Environmental Chemistry in 2010. That same year she saw a Craigslist ad that Ninkasi Brewing was looking for a chemist. During her employment she was a Lab Tech who propagated their in-house yeast, ran the quality control program, and collaborated with Team Hybriddyne to launch Ninkasi yeast into space. She left Ninkasi in 2014 to set up BrewLab.
Cheryl Gillson is the Rogue Farms marketing and farm manager in Independence, Oregon. Gillson was born in California, but moved to Oregon when she was 18 months old; her family settled near Hillsboro, where Gillson had opportunities to grow her interests in outdoor activities and photography. She moved to San Francisco in the early 2000s and moved back to Oregon in 2004, which is when she got her first position at Rogue Ales and Spirits working as founder Jack Joyce's assistant. That position led her back to San Francisco for a few years, but she left the company to move to Istanbul, Turkey in 2010 with general plans to explore and travel. After four years in Turkey she returned to Oregon and to Rogue. After a few months of odd jobs for the company she was transferred to her position on the Rogue Farms.
Gayle Goschie is a third-generation hop grower and Vice President for Hops and Winegrapes at her family's Goschie Farms, Inc. in Silverton, Oregon. Gosche studied at both University of Oregon and Portland State University, earning a degree in Political Science at PSU. After college she worked for a small advertising agency in Portland, returning to the family farm in 1981.
John Harris is the owner of Ecliptic Brewing in Portland, Oregon. Harris grew up in Beaverton, developing an early interest in astronomy and home brewing. He was one of the first brewers at McMenamins, answering an ad in Willamette Week they'd posted for a brewer in Hillsdale; he worked there from 1986 to 1988. He left to take a job at Deschutes Brewing, where he was the founding Brewmaster for the brewery, which had opened in 1987; he stayed with that position until 1992, when he moved to Portland. That move led to a position at Full Sail Brewery, working in their small experimental brewery on the waterfront and focusing on the brewmaster reserve line. In 2012 he left Full Sail, and in 2013 he opened his own brewery.
Alfred Haunold was born in Austria in 1929, where he spent his teenage years fond of science, especially botany. He attended a prep school for agricultural studies and graduated from the Agricultural University of Vienna; he earned his doctorate in plant production and wheat breeding in 1951. He obtained a Fulbright scholarship to work on wheat breeding and genetics at the University of Nebraska; after a brief return to Austria, Haunold came back to Nebraska, where he obtained an American PhD and married. He accepted a hop research position in the USDA offices in 1965, despite not being trained as a hop researcher. Soon Haunold found himself in charge of the breeding program after Stanley Brooks resigned. This position as a hop breeder defined the rest of Haunold's career. Haunold's team released the Cascade in 1972, a hop that changed the hops and brewing industries. Haunold had a solid research team, including Chemist Stan Likens, Pathologist Jack Horner, Agronomist Chuck Zimmermann, and Agricultural Chemist Gail Nickerson. This group continued to research, release varieties, and publish their findings in a variety of publications. Haunold retired from the USDA in 1995, but continues to be a valued resource for growers, brewers, and researchers.
Lee Hedgmon is a professional and home brewer, as well as a distiller. Hedgmon is a third generation Portlander who grew up in the Woodlawn neighborhood and attended All Saints Catholic School. She graduated from Lincoln High School in 1991 and attended Portland Community College before joining the JobCorps at Tongue Point on the Oregon Coast. She returned to Portland to work at the Red Lion and attended Portland State University, where she earned a B.A. in Women’s Studies in 2003. She travelled to the University of Minnesota for doctoral work in Feminist Pedagogical Theory in 2010, but moved back to Portland before finishing her dissertation; she returned with an interest in fermentation and was an avid home brewer. She soon joined the Oregon Brew Crew, first holding office as the Festival Coordinator, then Volunteer Committee Chairwoman, and then the President (the first woman in that position). Her first professional brewing position was at Coalition Brewing Company in Portland. That job led to many others, including posts at Portland U-Brew, Old Town Brewing Company, Gateway Brewing, Pints Brewing Company, Ground Breaker Brewing and F.H. Steinbart. She started work as a distiller at McMenamins Edgefield in August 2016.
Jessica Just is the Director of Technical Services for Brew Dr. Kombucha in Portland, Oregon. Just grew up in Portland, where she developed an interest in home brewing quite early. She attended Oregon State University (2005-2008) and was one of the first three graduates (first female) from the OSU Fermentation Science program in the Food Science Department (established 1995). She stayed at OSU for graduate school, where she earned her M.S. in Food Science and Technology in 2001. She interned at the St. Michelle Wine Estates from 2001-2002, and then took a job at Scott Laboratories. She moved to London in 2012, where she worked with the local chapter of the Campaign for Real Ale. She moved back to Corvallis to take a job as an academic advisor and instructor for the Fermentation Science program in 2015 and in 2017 moved back to Portland to take a job at Brew Dr. Kombucha.
Jennifer Kent is the brewer at the McMenamins Thompson Brewery and Public House. Kent spent her early childhood in Alaska and Colorado, but moved to Newport, Oregon in elementary school. When she was in high school she got a horse, which occupied a lot of her time; she graduated from Newport High School in 1993. Her mother is an artist, so Kent spent time being creative and exploring art. She moved to Springfield, Oregon before settling in Salem in 1999. After five years in the food service industry, including at the McMenamins Boons Treasury as a line cook and server, she got interested in brewing. Under the mentorship of McMenamins brewer Gary Nance, Kent learned the fundamentals, but also how to experiment to make new creations or variants. She's inspired by foods, spices, flavors, places, and improvisational belly dancing.
Nathan Kirk teaches in Oregon State University's Department of Integrative Biology, specializing in Marine Ecology. He is also a home brewer. Kirk grew up in New York state, where both his parents were teachers. He studied Biological Sciences at State University of New York at Buffalo (B.S. 2003, M.S. 2006); he was a University Honors Scholar and graduated Magna Cum Laude. He moved to Alabama for a doctoral program at Auburn University, studying Biological Sciences and working as both a teaching and research assistant; it was in Alabama that Kirk explored home brewing. He's been a postdoctoral researcher at Oregon State University, focusing on Marine Ecology, since 2013.
Lee Larsen is one of the founders of 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. Larsen was born and raised in Corvallis, and he grew up exploring the McDonald Research Forest and playing soccer. He and his family lived in Barcelona, Spain while Larsen was in high school, and it was there that he learned more about the European cider culture and industry. He returned to Oregon in 2003 for his senior year at Corvallis High School. He attended Oregon State University, graduating with a degree in Finance in 2008. He and friends Dave Takush and Aaron Sarnoff-Wood started 2 Towns Ciderhouse in 2010.
Sonia Marie Leikam co-owns Leikam Brewing with her husband, but also works full-time at the Oregon Jewish Community Foundation. Leikam grew up in the Bay Area and moved to Portland in 1999 to attend Lewis and Clark College; she graduated in 2003 with degrees in History and Theater. She graduated from Portland State University in 2006 with an M.Ed. in Secondary Teaching and Education. She worked for North Clackamas School District from 2005 to 2006, at Hillsboro High School as a Drama and American Studies teacher, and at St. Mary’s Academy from 2007 to 2010 as the Director of Student Activities. In 2011, she began work at the Oregon Holocaust Resource Center as their Executive Director, in 2012 she earned a Certificate in Holocaust and Related Studies from Georgetown University, and from 2014 to 2015 she was a Carl Wilkens Fellow, a program to end mass atrocities and genocide. She began work at the Oregon Jewish Community Foundation in 2015, the same year she and her husband opened their community supported and certified kosher brewery (the first in Oregon).
Nick Lorenz is the co-founder and co-owner of Nectar Creek Mead in Corvallis, Oregon, which he runs with his brother Philip. Lorenz grew up in Corvallis, where is family was involved with local farming and agriculture; both siblings worked at Denison Farms as teenagers. Beyond farming and food, Lorenz was especially interested in pottery and soccer. He moved to Burlington to attend the University of Vermont, where he studied Ecological Agriculture and played college soccer. Lorenz worked in an apple orchard during summer breaks from college, where he learned to make apple cider and brandy, and as a river raft guide. His brother pursued a college education in Apiculture and Fermentation Science, and ultimately worked in commercial beekeeping, an interest that led both of them to an interest in mead. They opened Nectar Creek in 2012.
Mark McKay is the owner of McKay Farms and is a sixth generation hop farmer; the McKay family came to Oregon from Scotland and Ireland in the 1840s. He was born in Salem, Oregon and grew up in St. Paul, where he attended a Catholic elementary school. McKay took over the farm after graduating from high school. His family has always grown a variety of crops in St. Paul (hops, mint, filberts, grass seed) and McKay expanded into Independence, Oregon. McKay’s left the hop business in the 1970s when prices dropped; McKay and his brother returned to hop farming in the 1990s when Anheuser-Busch was contracting with growers and the market was getting stronger. He farmed with his brother until 2015, when they split the business.
Lisa Morrison co-owns Belmont Station, a bottle shop and pub in Portland. Morrison grew up in Oklahoma, where she loved to read and since in the choir; she moved to Evergreen, Colorado for high school. She attended Colorado State University, graduating with a degree in Technical Journalism. After graduation she worked as a television news reporter and anchor, a career she continued after moving to Portland in 1989, where she worked for KOIN TV. It was at CSU that her interest in imported and local microbrews was sparked, and continued to grow after exploring the rapidly expanding beer culture in Portland. She began home brewing with her husband and joined the Oregon Brew Crew, a large home brew club, where she met well-known brewers, journalists, and people just interested in making their own beer. Soon her personal interest turned into a career when she started offering beer education classes and wrote about beer for local and national publications. She released the book Craft Beers of the Pacific Northwest in 2011. In 2008, she started Beer O'Clock, a weekly commercial radio show on KXL, where she interviewed people from all facets of the brewing community; the show ran through 2015. In 2013, Morrison became the majority owner of Belmont Station.
Gary Nance is the brewer at the McMenamins on Monroe in Corvallis, Oregon. Nancy was born and raised in Oklahoma, and moved to the west coast after college. He started brewing professionally in 1995, working as the assistant brewer at Spencer's Restaurant and Brewhouse in Springfield, where he helped develop Oregon's first certified organic ale in 1998, and worked briefly at Eugene's West Bros. and Steelhead Brewing Company before taking a job at the McMenamins Thompson Brewery and Public House in Salem in August 2002. He transferred to the Monroe Street facility when it opened in 2006.
Gail Nickerson is a former Agricultural Chemist at Oregon State University. Nickerson grew up in Portland, and as a child was interested in science. Told by her high school guidance counselor that she could only be a teacher, she enrolled at Oregon State University as an Education major. She left school and in 1959 started to work as a full-time laboratory technician. Though she began washing equipment, she soon spent more time in the fields and doing high-level Agricultural Chemistry projects, working on many that were immensely important for the global hop industry. After developing an interest in programming and statistics, she completed her undergraduate degree in computer science in 1984. She retired as a Senior Research Assistant in 2003.
Don Norton is the owner of Norton Hop Farm, a small organic hop farm established in Goshen, Oregon in 2008. Norton was born in Eugene, and spent most of his life in the Spencer Creek area where there were large hop farms. His family moved to Oakridge in 1973, where he attended high school. Norton spent most of his working life doing factory work, before buying the farm and starting to grow hops.
Carole Ockert grew up in Ireland and moved to the United States in 1969, settling just south of Seattle. She met and married Karl Ockert, who later became the first brewer at BridgePort Brewing in Portland, and they moved around the west coast before settling in Portland with their twin daughters. Ockert is a Certified Hypnotherapist in Lake Oswego.
Karl Ockert is the Director of Brewery Operations at Deschutes Brewery. Ockert grew up brewing with his mother, though he didn't initially see that as a professional calling. He attended Humbolt State University to pursue a degree in Natural Sciences/Resources, but he changed directions while he was there and transferred to UC Davis to pursue a degree in fermentation. He mainly took oenology classes while he was there, graduating in 1983 and hopeful to get a job with a Pacific Northwest brewery. Unfortunately, the macro brewing industry was still contracting at that time, so he found himself working at Ponzi Vineyards. He was there for one harvest, and soon Dick Ponzi shared his interest in opening a brewery in Portland. They found a building in late 1983 and by April of 1984 Ockert was the first brewer at BridgePort Brewing; he hired Matt Sage as his assistant and stayed until 1990. He took a position at Anheuser Busch in Newark, but only stayed from 1992-1993. He returned to the west coast, briefly working at Nor'Wester with Jim Bernau in 1994, and in Tacoma starting two brewpubs in 1995 and 1996. He returned to BridgePort in 1996, where he stayed in a position as Brew Master and Plant Manager through 2010. He left to work at the Master Brewers Association of America as their Technical Director; during this time he also worked as a professional brewing consultant. He took his job at Deschutes Brewery in 2015.
Sarah Pederson is the owner of Saravesa, a bar, bottle shop, and breweriana showroom in North Portland. Pederson was born in Denver, Colorado and grew up in a small town in Wisconsin. She went to Minneapolis for college, starting with a graphic design major before switching to journalism; eventually, she created her own major in "aural history," which involved listening to sound and looking at communication. She finished college at California State University in Los Angeles as part of national student exchange, and then went to work for a record company doing public relations. Pederson moved to Portland in the early 2000s, working in PR for high tech firms, but also for her friend at Pix, a patisserie and bar. After leaving the tech industry, she explored brewing through home brewing, workshops at the American Brewer's Guild (brewing certificate 2005), and early jobs at the breweries Hair of the Dog and the New Old Lompoc Bar. She opened Saravesa in 2008.
Sybil Perkins is a Graphic Designer, as well as the brand director and a board member for the Pink Boots Society. She grew up in the Eugene/Springfield area, and had an early interest in arts and music. Perkins was also very engaged with community and civil rights at a young age, thanks in large part to her mother; she lived in Philadelphia and New York City, where she had a variety of experiences as an activist. She returned to the West Coast, where she began to home brew and explore jobs in graphic design. She was an adjunct instructor at both Shoreline Community College and Henry Cogswell College, a Graphic Designer at Cascade Bank (2000-2004), and taught at the School of Visual Concepts from 2003 to 2007. She now has her own graphic design company, where most of her clients are from the foods, hospitality, spirits, and brewing industries. She lives in Everett, Washington.
Mellie Pullman is a professor at Portland State University, where she is the Director of the Business of Craft Brewing Program. Pullman grew up in Chicago; after high school she travelled around the country and took classes at The Evergreen State College, where she studied energy systems and alternative energy. She started a master's program at the University of Utah, focusing Operations Management, Marketing, and Mechanical Engineering and earning an M.B.A., M.S., and Ph.D. She was the first female brewmaster in the U.S. when she took a position in 1986 at Schirf Brewing in Park City, Utah. From 2003 to 2006 she worked at Cornell University, teaching classes related to Service Operations Management and Hotel Administration. She's been at Portland State University since 2005, teaching courses related to food supply chain management, forecasting and production, and global supply chain management. In 2013, her research focus shifted from food to beer and she began work as the Director of the Craft Brewing Program, which provides instruction on business operations for beer, spirits, cider, mead, and kombucha.
Joel Rea is the owner of Corvallis Brewing Supply. Rea spent his early life in Kirkland, Washington, and his family moved to Albany, Oregon when he was in elementary school. He did college work in environmental studies at Prescott College (1993-1993) and the fine arts at the University of Oregon (1995-1996). He worked for the Forest Service, but changed careers to open a home brew and bottle shop in 1997. He has held many classes, hosted events, and mentored many home and commercial brewers.
Joy Hoerner Rich is the daughter of Oregon State University hops specialist G.R. Hoerner. She was born in Ithaca, New York when her dad was on staff at Cornell University; the family soon moved to Portland. She spend most of her youth in Corvallis, and her family regularly hosted parties with people in the macro brewing industries (e.g. Bill Blitz). Rich met her husband at OSU and graduated in 1940s with a degree in home economics. After her husband returned from WWII, the couple moved to Roseburg, where Rich ran a private kindergarten; after kindergarten was part of the public school curriculum Rich started an after school program for kids who needed assistance. Rich is also the niece of artists Berta and Elmer Hader, who are noteworthy in the world of children’s literature; Rich wrote a book in 2014 about their work.
Matt Sage has been a brewer, vintner, and hop consultant whose work has contributed to the creation and expansion of many small businesses across the Pacific Northwest. Sage was born in Portland and graduated from Central Catholic High School. Initially interested in biology, while at Evergreen State College he became more interested in agriculture and farming. Later he had a brief stint at a USDA research lab in Yakima, Washington before getting his first winery job at Columbia Winery. He was hired by Karl Ockert as the second employee at BridgePort Brewing in Portland. Sage left BridgePort in 1990 for a position at Cameron Winery in Dundee, Oregon. He worked for the Colorado-based brewpub chain Rock Bottom, helping open both the Denver and Portland locations and working there through 2004 when he returned to a much bigger BridgePort Brewing. In August 2010, Sage joined Indie Hops, a company that supplies craft brewers with hops.
Robyn Schumacher is a brewer at Stoup Brewing in Seattle's Ballard district. Schumacher was born in Billings, Montana and grew up in Spokane. She had early interests in sports, literature, and science, and after graduating from North Central High School in 1991 she moved to Helena, Montana to study biology at Carroll College. Schumacher moved back to Spokane after college to work odd jobs before returning to Montana to work for the forest service; she returned to Washington to attend Eastern Washington University for her teaching license. She spent 13 years teaching high school science before quitting in 2011 to pursue her interest in the restaurant and brewing industries. In 2012, she became a certified cicerone, the first woman in Washington to be certified. After managing a bar in West Seattle, she joined Lara Zahaba and Brad Benson in opening Stoup Brewing in 2013.
Guy Seghetti taught Social Science for Roseburg, Oregon public schools before retiring in 2008. He grew up in Corvallis, Oregon and went to the University of Utah to pursue a degree in Anthropology. He worked as a USDA Hops and Essential Oils lab and agricultural technician at Oregon State University from 1968 to 1977, where he worked with Gail Nickerson and Alfred Haunold. This was a crucial time in hops breeding program with the release of the Cascade and other hops in the 1970s. Seghetti left the program in 1977 to teach in Roseburg.
Thomas Shellhammer is the Nor’Wester Professor of Fermentation Science at Oregon State University, where he runs a lab dedicated to the chemical and sensory analysis of hops. Shellhammer grew up in San Jose, where his father worked as a field biologist studying fire ecology and his mother worked as an arts educator. He earned all three of his advanced degrees from UC Davis: B.S. in Fermentation Science in 1987, M.S. in Food Science in 1989, and Ph.D. in Food Engineering in 1996. He was an Assistant Professor at The Ohio State University from 1997 to 2001 before taking his current position. He has been actively involved in the American Society of Brewing Chemists, Master Brewers Association of the Americas, Institute of Brewing and Distilling, and Institute of Food Technologists.
Larry Sidor is the founder of Crux Fermentation, a brewery in Bend, Oregon. Soda was born in Corvallis, but moved to La Grande when his father became an extension agent for Union County. The family returned to Corvallis and Sidor graduated from Corvallis High School. He graduated from Oregon State University in 1972 with a B.S. in Food Science and a minor in Enology. He took a wine internship, but his first major professional position was at Olympia Brewing Company, where he worked from 1974 to 1997, occupying positions as an Operations Manager and Assistant Brewer. In 1997 he left Olympia to work at S.S. Steiner in Yakima, Washington as a VP for Operations. Sidor left S.S. Steiner in 2003 and for a time had a vineyard in Yakima. He took a position as the Head Brewer for Deschutes Brewing in Bend, Oregon in 2004, a position he held until 2011 when he left to open his own brewery.
Blair Smith is the owner, orchardist, and cider-maker for Apple Outlaw. Smith was born in Seattle, Washington, but grew up in Stockton, California, where the family had moved for his father's job as a Math Professor at the University of the Pacific. Smith stayed in Stockton for college, where he graduated with a Computer Science degree in 1990; he spent the next 20 years as a software engineer in Livermore. In 2003, Smith and his family moved to Applegate, a town in rural Southern Oregon, where they had a property with an old apple orchard. Smith continued to work as a software contractor before switching careers to run an organic orchard and work full-time as a cider-maker. The Smith family sold apples to cider-makers throughout Oregon and began to press their own apple cider for selling at farmers markets and co-ops. In 2013, transitioned from non-alcoholic to hard cider with their first sales of Apple Bandit.
Hilda Stevens owns Bazi Bierbrasserie, a Belgian-style beer taproom and soccer bar in SE Portland. Stevens immigrated from Guatemala when she was 8 years old, living and going to school in The Woodlands (a community north of Houston, Texas). She attended St Mary's University in San Antonio, studying International Business and Marketing. After graduation worked for business and marketing companies; these jobs provided opportunities to travel extensively through the U.S. and internationally. She became a citizen in 1997, and the next year she moved to Portland in 1998, continuing to work for the San Antonio based NCR. With that job she had the change to travel to Europe in 2006, which is where she discovered Belgian beers. During this same period Stevens took night classes at George Fox University in an accelerated M.B.A. program. After the economic downtown and rolling company layoffs, Stevens decided to revisit a graduate school business plan for opening a bar. She began looking for locations in 2010 and opened Bazi in 2011.
Dave Takush is the head cider maker at 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. He was born and raised in North Corvallis, surrounded by acres of grass fields and farmland. Takush has always been interested in science classes and cooking, so after graduating from Crescent Valley High School he studied Food Science and Technology at Oregon State University, specifically focusing on Fermentation Science and Oenology (B.S. 2007, M.S. 2009). He worked briefly as a winemaker in Eugene before he and friends Lee Larsen and Aaron Sarnoff-Wood started 2 Towns Ciderhouse in 2010.
Gillian Tobin is the Events and Marketing Coordinator at Mazama Brewing in Corvallis, Oregon. She was born in Colorado, but spent most of her childhood in Albany, Oregon. She moved to Eugene to attend the University of Oregon in 2006, earning her B.A. in Journalism and Communications in 2010. In 2008 she studied Italian language and literature at the Universita per Strainieri di Perugia. She worked for Hotel Deluxe in Portland from 2010 to 2013 before returning to Corvallis to begin working at the family brewery. In 2014 she began studying Graphic Design at Linn-Benton Community College, earning her Associate of Arts and Sciences in 2016.
Kathy Tobin is a co-founder and manager at Mazama Brewing in Corvallis, Oregon. She was born and raised in Michigan, and earned her B.S. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Michigan Technological University in 1983; while in college she was a member of the Blue Key Society and Eta Kappa Nu. She attended the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management from 1994 to 1995, earning an Executive M.B.A. from the Executive Development Program. She returned to school in 2004 and earned a diploma from the Entrepreneurship Development Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management. After living in Colorado, Tobin moved to Corvallis and in 1998 took a position at Agilent Technologies as a Business Unit manager; she was there through 2002, when she left to take a position as a Vice President and General Manager at Hewlett-Packard. She was there until 2013, when she left to start Mazama Brewing with her husband Jeff.
Jeff Tobin is the co-founder and brewer at Mazama Brewing in Corvallis, Oregon. He born in West Branch, Michigan. He came from a very musical family, and played the trumpet for many years; he also loved science and math. Tobin went to college in 1979 at the Michigan Technological University, initially intending to become a sound engineer; he studied Electrical Engineering (B.S. 1983). He and his wife Kathy moved to Burlington, Vermont, where they began to home brew regularly. Tobin worked at IBM in Vermont before moving to Colorado in the 1980s, where he and his wife Kathy had two children. His family moved to Corvallis for jobs at Hewlett-Packard, where he worked as a Design Engineer until 2000. He worked at Agilent Technologies 2000 to 2005, Avago 2005 to 2006, and Marvell Semiconductor from 2006 to 2013. He and Kathy opened Mazama Brewing in 2012, where they use many recipes developed over their 24 years of home brewing.
Shaun Townsend is the senior researcher leading Oregon State University’s Aroma Hop Breeding Program. Townsend grew up in Central Illinois. He attended Montana State University, obtaining a B.S. in 1988 in Agronomy and a M.S. in Agronomy Plant Breeding and Forage Production in 1990. He received his Ph.D. in Agronomy Plant Breeding and Genetics in 1998 at New Mexico State University. Townsend began his work in Corvallis working with John Henning in the USDA-ARS hop breeding program; in 2010 he assumed responsibility for a new aroma hop breeding program in the OSU Department of Crop and Soil Science.
Don Weathers is a second-generation hop grower in the Willamette Valley. He was born in Salem and lived around the state on various family-owned farms. Weathers married Rosalie Kerr, who was also from a hop family, in 1958 and the couple had 6 children. The Weathers' farm was one of the test locations for growing the Cascade hop in the 1960s. The Weathers' land holdings expanded both in size in geography, most of the family's farms are now run by his children and grandchildren.
Kurt and Rob Widmer launched Widmer Brothers in 1984. Kurt graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of Oregon in 1978, then moved to Germany to work for a pharmaceutical company, registering foreign-made drugs for sale in the German market. His younger brother Rob studied business at Oregon State University in the early 1980s. The Craft Brew Alliance was formed in 2008 through a merger of Redhook Brewery and Widmer; at that time, the two companies sold stakes to Anheuser-Busch in exchange for access to a nationwide network of wholesalers. In 2015, Kurt Wider announced he would retire as CEO of the Craft Brew Alliance.
Dave Wills is the owner of Freshops, Oregon Trail Brewery, and Dave's Christmas Trees. Wills grew up in Santa Paula, California, and studied Agriculture at a junior college before transferring to Oregon State University (B.S. 1980). His early interest in home brewing was sparked by a trip through Europe, and when he returned he sought to educate himself and find others to experiment with him; he saw a sign in a natural food store advertising a “Homebrewing Class," so he tried it out. Around this same time he took a trip to the USDA hop research farm because he wanted to grow his own; this interest soon became a real job, and he sold his first hops through his company Freshops in 1982. He and Jerry Bockmore took over the management of Oregon Trail Brewing in 1993, a brewery that opened in downtown Corvallis in 1987 and closed briefly in 1992.
Ralph Woodall works in sales for Yakima-Chief Hopunion, a company he has been with since the mid-1980s. Woodall was raised in the Yakima Valley, and most of his professional career has been in the hop industry. He travelled extensively for his job, attending many festivals, trade shows, and other events. He was also active in the Master Brewers Association of America. Tom Carpenter is a fourth generation hop grower based in Granger, Washington. Carpenter's family has deep roots in the Valley; Carpenter Ranches was established in 1868 when Charles Carpenter left his hop growing family in New York to settle in the Ahtanum area of the Yakima Valley. Theirs was the first hop farm in Washington State east of the Cascade Mountains, which is now the largest hop producing region in the world. Tom Carpenter started growing hops when he was 12, selling them by the pound to his father; he has been growing the crop ever since. Later in his professional career he helped form the grower cooperative that eventually became the Yakima Chief hop company. Carpenter is largely retired now, and his children and grandchildren continue to expend their family operations.
Aaron Sarnoff-Wood is one of the co-founders of 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. Sarnoff-Wood was born in Riverside, California, where he lived for five years. In 1986 his family initially moved to Albany, but after nine months relocated to Corvallis, where Sarnoff-Wood lived until graduating from Crescent Valley High School. As a child he played soccer, had interests in sciences like field biology, and found opportunities to explore both art and graphic design. He moved to Eugene in 1999 and lived near campus, in a rundown house a couple of blocks away from where Animal House was filmed; it was in the basement of that house that he began his home brewing experiments. While at the University of Oregon Sarnoff-Wood studied Graphic Design and also worked at an independently-owned video store. After college he took a position doing design for InterVision Media, but was laid off in 2007 and began to consider a career change. He and friends Dave Takush and Lee Larsen started 2 Towns Ciderhouse in 2010.
Gary and Susan Wyatt are the founders and owners of Tumalo Hops, a farm near Bend in Central Oregon. Susan was born in Bend, and Gary was born in Reno, Nevada. They married in 1973 and moved to Tumalo in 1978. Susan stayed home with their children, but took a position at brokerage house and construction company after they were in school; she worked there until the business closed in 2008. Gary was in the Navy during Vietnam, and after his second tour he left the service. He began work at a sawmill and was laid off when the mill closed in 1992; he learned how to do carpentry, glassmaking, and electrical work. The Wyatts chose to utilize five acres of their land to grow hops, planting, cultivating, and harvesting everything by hand starting in 2008.
Veronica Vega is a Brewmaster at Deschutes Brewery, focusing on research and development. Vega grew up in Southern California, where her family had an avocado orchard. She came from a big family, and her early life was full of good food and lots of work on the farm. She moved to Northern California to attend Humboldt State University and study Botany; she wanted to be in the forest, so she chose that school because it was the farthest north without paying out of state tuition. She worked briefly in the forest service before moving to Bend. In 2006, she took a position with Deschutes Brewery as a tour guide, moving up to cellar work, production brewing, and lead brewer at the downtown pub. In 2015, she was promoted to one of the top brewer positions.
The Asia University America Program was established at OSU in 1988 to bring Japanese students from the Asia University in Tokyo to OSU for intensive English language training as well as classes in American history and culture and physical education. The English Language Institute designed and implemented the program, which was also established at three Washington universities. The program at OSU was closed in August 1994.
Claud L. Booth enrolled at Oregon Agricultural College in the fall of 1919, as a member of the Class of 1923, to study electrical engineering. Booth attended for three academic years, 1919-1920 through 1921-1922, but did not complete his degree at that time. In spring 1923, he moved from Roseburg, Oregon to Sterling, Colorado. In the fall of 1926, he returned to Oregon Agricultural College as a student in industrial arts. He attended during for the full 1926-1927 academic year and for the fall of 1927. Booth received a BS in Industrial Arts in June 1928.
Claud Lorraine Booth was born in Wilderville, Oregon on September 16, 1899 and graduated from Grants Pass High School in 1917. He served in the military from April 1917 to April 1919. Booth died on December 14, 1987 in Grants Pass, Oregon.
Shideler was born in Girard, Kansas, in 1904. He earned a bachelor's degree in journalism from Kansas State College in 1927 and an MA in education from Oregon State College in 1941. In 1929, he began his career at OSU, one that spanned 41 years, as a journalism instructor and an assistant in the OSC News Bureau.
Shideler was promoted to assistant professor and journalism department head in 1932; to associate professor in 1939; and to professor in 1944. From January through March 1944 he worked in the Office of War Information in Washington, D.C., and from April 1944 through September 1945 he was the information assistant for the OSC Extension Service's Emergency Farm Labor Service. During that time he took over 200 photographs of the farm labor program's activities throughout the state. He returned to teaching journalism in the fall of 1945.
In 1952 he became head of information services; in 1967 he was appointed director of university relations. Shideler also served as administrative assistant to Oregon governors Paul L. Patterson and Elmo Smith in 1956. Shideler retired from OSU in 1970. He died in Corvallis on May 11, 1993.
Schoth was born in Hannah, Wyoming on May 24, 1891. He came to Oregon Agricultural College as a student in 1909, and received the B.S. in 1914 and the M.S. in 1917. Schoth worked as a Fellow at OAC from 1914-1916 and became an instructor (courtesy) in Farm Crops in 1924. He went to work for the U.S. Department of Agriculture in 1917 as a Scientific Assistant. During his USDA career he was an Assistant Agronomist in Forage Crop Investigations, Associate Agronomist and Senior Agronomist. Schoth retired from the USDA in 1961.
In 1926 he worked with Shifting Sand Dune Control for the U.S. Navy. In 1962 Schoth received the Gold Medal Award for Distinguished Service to Agriculture from the Oregon Farm Bureau for developing nearly 50 commercially-improved varieties of legumes and grasses, which contributed to the state's burgeoning seed industry. He also received an award from the American Grasslands Council and the USDA's Superior Service Award. Schoth died on July 31, 1975.
Donald L. Mason earned a BS in Industrial Arts from Oregon State College in 1937. Mason enrolled at Oregon State in the fall of 1930 after graduating from Eugene High School. He attended Oregon State full time during the 1930/31 through 1934/35 academic years. For the next two years (1935/36 and 1936/37), he was an undergradaute assistant in industrial arts and took a few courses per term to complete his degree. Following graduation, Mason was the Foundry Instructor in the Industrial Arts Department until 1943, when he accepted an appointment as Teaching Specialist in Foundry Practice at Stanford University. Donald Lyman Mason was born in Harmony, Minnesota, on January 14, 1911. After his father's sudden death in 1919, Mason's mother moved with her children to Eugene, Oregon, to live with her parents.
Carey L. Strome earned a BS in Agronomy from Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) in 1916. Strome enrolled at OAC in 1912 after graduating from high school in Junction City, Oregon. Strome worked for the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C. after completing his degree. In 1935, he assumed management of the family's farm near Junction City and specialized in the production of grass seed. Strome was active in business, civic, and community organizations; he served as President of the Oregon Seed Growers League, was a member of the Lane County Planning Commission, and served as mayor of Junction City.
Carey Lloyd Strome was born in Junction City, Oregon, on January 11, 1894; he died in 1974.
Carolyn Josephine Schelling, of Cottage Grove, Oregon, attended the 1916 summer session at Oregon Agricultural College. She married Frank Pierce and was the first married woman school teacher in Portland, Oregon. Teachers were not allowed to be married so she kept her marriage a secret. Not long afterwards, the rule changed and she used her married name. She was an alumna of Oregon College of Education (Western Oregon University).
Zoa Lowthian earned a BS in Pharmacy from Oregon State Agricultural College in 1932. She enrolled in the fall of 1928 and attended the College during the 1928-1929 through 1931-1932 academic years. Zoa D. Lowthian was born in Akley, Minnesota, on October 12, 1909 and graduated from high school in Milbank, South Dakota in June 1928.
Established in 1972, the original nine members of the Chicano Cultural Center (CCC) met weekly in the basement of Milam Hall. At the end of 1976, the Chicano Cultural Advisory Committee requested that the university provide housing for the Center. The CCC was first given the house at 2475 Orchard Street and later the small house at 1969 SW “A” Street, which was to become the permanent Chicano Cultural Center. On April 13, 1977, OSU President Dr. Robert MacVicar cut the ribbon to symbolically open the new Center to the public. The center was renamed the Hispanic Cultural Center in the mid-1980s, but the final name change came in 1996 to honor Mexican farm worker activist César Chávez. The Centro Cultural César Chávez (4Cs) was established to provide a location and facility for programming various academic, cultural, recreational, and social events related to the Chicano/Latino/Hispanic culture and heritage. The 4Cs is managed by the office of Diversity Development, a unit of Intercultural Student Services. On April 7, 2014, the new Centro Cultural César Chávez opened its doors to the public. Located at 691 S.W. 26th St, the new building was one of four new cultural centers being built on campus to replace aging structures. The 3,565 square-foot building cost $2,521,051 and was designed by Seattle-based architects Jones & Jones. The new building includes a large gathering hall, multiple office and study spaces and a large kitchen for hosting social events.
Student Health Services was established at Oregon Agricultural College in 1916 in a single room within the Men’s Gymnasium. The following year Student Health moved into the frame building now known as the Hattie Redmond Women and Gender Center (formerly Benton Annex) and stayed in that location until the Student Health Service Building was constructed in 1936 with federal funds provided by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). The Student Health Service Building is now known as Plageman Hall, in honor of Erna Plageman, a long-time student health administrator at Oregon State.
When it was established, Student Health was under the purview of Clair V. Langton, Dean of Health and Physical Education. In the early 1930s, Student Health was placed under the supervision of the Dean of the University of Oregon Medical School in Portland. By the early 1960s, responsibility for oversight for Student Health had moved to the Dean of Students at Oregon State University.
Student Health Services is funded by student fees and provides a full range of health services -- clinical services; prevention and wellness programs including vaccinations, alcohol and drug abuse prevention education; and sexual assault care and advocacy.
Benton County received its first County Extension Agent in 1917. The Oregon State University Extension Service established a farm forestry project in 1944; by the early 1980s, the Extension Forestry program included 10 county agents and 8 central staff forestry specialists.
Rick Fletcher served as Extension Forestry Agent for Benton County from 1979 until his retirement in 2011. Bert W. Udell graduated from Oregon State College in 1940 with a degree in logging engineering. He established the Happy Valley Tree Farm near Lebanon, Oregon, where he hosted an annual tree day for the public. The tree farm was the site for 4-H activities and educational tours. Udell was also active in the Oregon Small Woodlands Association. He died in Lebanon in 2010.
Ernst Thedore Stuhr was born in 1900. He received a B.S. from the University of Nebraska in 1925 and an M.S. from the University of Florida in 1927. Stuhr served on the faculty of the Oregon State College (OSC) School of Pharmacy from 1927 to 1944 as Assistant Professor of Pharmacy (1927-1930) and Associate Professor (1930-1944) of Pharmacology and Pharmacognosy. His major area of research, medicinal plants, was reflected in the many articles that he wrote for scholarly and trade journals. In 1944, Stuhr resigned from OSC to take a position with Frank Nau Manufacturing Chemists in Portland, Oregon. He was a member of several scientific, honorary and professional societies. Stuhr died on February 12, 1980.
Jay W. Blair of Los Angeles, California, attended Oregon State College from 1939 to 1942 and graduated in 1942 with a B.S. in Civil Engineering. He was president of Hawley Hall, where he resided, and was a member of the Independent Student Council. After graduation he relocated to Salem, Oregon.
Jo Anne J. Trow (then Jo Anne Johnson) came to Oregon State University in 1965 to serve as the Dean of Women. In 1969 the university appointed Trow as Associate Dean of Students after a structural reorganization eliminated the Dean of Women position. A year later, she married Clifford W. Trow, a faculty member in the Oregon State University History Department. Jo Anne Trow was one of the central figures in a group of campus women who addressed issues of inequality faced by female faculty, such as salary parity. These discussions and activities eventually led to the formation of the OSU Women’s Network, the Women's Center, and the President's Commission on the Status of Women. In 1984, Trow was named Vice President for Student Affairs -- the first female vice president at Oregon State. She retired in 1995.
Jo Anne Trow has been active in a number of community organizations such as the Corvallis Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and the Old Mill Center for Children and Families. She has received many honors, including the Howland Special Achievement Award and Corvallis Senior First Citizen, in recognition of her civic actvities.
Trow earned a BA in Sociology at Denison University in 1953 and an MA in Counseling and Guidance, with a minor in Sociology, at Indiana University in 1956. She completed her Ph.D. in Student Personnel Administration in 1965 at Michigan State University. Trow served as Assistant Dean of Women at Denison University (1953-1954) and Washington State University (1959-1963) before joining the faculty of Oregon State University in 1965.
Born in Portland, Ralph I. Gifford (1894-1947) worked in his father's (Benjamin A. Gifford) photography studio as a boy and accompanied his father on photography trips around Oregon. He married Wanda Muir Theobald in 1918 and spent the last part of World War I in the U.S. Navy. Ralph took over his father's photography business around 1920 and sold it in 1928 to go into the motion picture business with F. C. Heaton in Portland.
In 1936, Ralph became the first photographer of the newly established Travel and Information Department of the Oregon State Highway Commission. His landscape views of Oregon's natural beauty were used for many years to promote tourism in the state. He also took motion pictures for the Highway Commission, including its 1941 color version of The New Oregon Trail, which was shown in every state in the U.S., and Glimpses From Oregon State Parks, released shortly before Ralph's death on June 23, 1947. His obituary, published in several Oregon newspapers in late June 1947, stated that "more than any other person, he is responsible for the tourist business in Oregon being an $83,500,000 business."
Ralph also took and sold photographs commercially; many of his commercial views were taken at the same time as his Highway Commission photos. His photographs could be purchased as postcards, view sets, individual prints, and photo-plaques. In a letter to the managing editor of U.S. Camera magazine, Ralph stated in 1943 that his work was "to visually educate the traveling public as to Oregon's scenic and vacation possibilities."
The Queer Studies curriculum was introduced in summer term of 2013 at Oregon State University with the Introduction to Queer Studies course thanks to the work of Dr. Qwo-Li Driskill and other faculty in Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (WGSS) at OSU. Since its launch, the Queer Studies curriculum--which is a nested program within WGSS--now offers over ten different courses, an undergraduate minor, a graduate minor, and may now serve as a secondary or third field of study in the master’s in interdisciplinary studies degree (MAIS) program.
The Queer Studies curriculum at Oregon State centers on the activism and scholarship of women of color, transnational feminisms, Two-Spirit Indigenous people, and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) people of color, and examines homophobia and transphobia's relationship with racism, colonialism, sexism, ableism, classism and other forms of systematic oppression.
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, the United States Western Defense Command created two "exclusion zones," encompassing all of California and large portions of Washington, Oregon, and Arizona. Because of the perceived security threat attributed to individuals of Japanese ancestry by the federal government within these zones. Japanese Americans were forcibly removed from these zones and relocated to concentration camps by Executive Order 9066.
In March 1942, the War Relocation Authority (WRA) was created by executive order to oversee the internment of Japanese Americans removed from the exclusion zone. That spring, more than 100,000 Japanese Americans were forcibly removed to ten WRA-operated internment camps located on public lands in Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Idaho, Utah, and Wyoming. These camps were typically crude and lacking in many basic amenities. Work opportunities were available for incarcerees, but compensation was minimal. Education programs were offered in the concentration camps, but were often intended to foster pro-American sentiments among the incarcerees.
The Community Analysis Section (CAS) of the WRA was established in 1943. It was composed of social scientists assigned to study incarcerees within the concentration camps for the benefit of the federal government. The CAS staff produced reports on topics including self-governance, education, language, concentration camp labor, incarceree religious practices, and incarceree conflict.
The exclusion zone was eliminated in January 1945 and the WRA began closing camps in October of that year. The WRA was officially eliminated on June 26, 1946.
After Ralph Gifford's death in 1947, his wife, Wanda Muir Gifford (1894-1989) took over the family's photography business. Wanda, born in Florin, California, was a 1916 Oregon Agricultural College home economics graduate. She taught home economics in the Portland schools for several years. Ralph and Wanda Gifford had two sons, Ralph Arthur Gifford, who attended Oregon State College before his death in 1939, and Ben L., who carried on the family's photographic tradition for a third generation.
Wanda took and sold photographs from 1947 through the mid-1950s. Largely self-taught in photography, she worked primarily on weekends -- in addition to her job with the County Clerk's office in the Marion County Courthouse. "As Mr. Gifford preferred to photograph landscapes, I am very much interested in child photography," she wrote to a magazine editor about a year after Ralph's death. "With all those fine cameras and a complete laboratory left me I must carry on." Wanda also took many photographs of agriculture subjects, and as Ralph had done, marketed the family's photographs to trade publications, such as American Fruit Grower and U.S. Camera magazines, newspapers, advertising firms, and corporations.
Wanda retired from the Marion County Clerk's office in 1958 and lived in Salem for most of the remainder of her life. She died in Sublimity, Oregon, in 1989.
Chih H. Wang was Professor of Chemistry, Director of the Radiation Center, and Head of the Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering at Oregon State University. He was responsible for the growth of nuclear science research on the Oregon State University campus and the creation of the OSU Radiation Center.
Wang was born in 1917 in Shanghai, China. He attended the National University of Shandong where he earned his B.S. in chemistry. Wang's studies and employment were disrupted by the Second Sino-Japanese War and later World War II but, beginning in 1938, Wang found work as a chemistry instructor at West China Union University. In 1945, Wang immigrated to the United States where he enrolled at Oregon State College. There, he earned his Ph.D. in organic chemistry. In 1950, Wang joined the OSU Chemistry Department as an instructor, where he focused on research in biochemistry, plant physiology, microbiology, and radiation biology. As a result of his aggressive research agenda, Wang earned his full professorship. Wang's use of radioisotopes in research resulted in a push for improved radiation research facilities on the OSU campus. In 1958, Wang drafted the first of three proposals requesting funds to build a radiation center at OSU. Funding was granted in 1960 and construction of the facility began in 1962. The TRIGA reactor (OSTR) was installed and activated in the OSU Radiation Center in 1967. Wang was named Director of the Radiation Center and Head of the Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering--a position he filled until his retirement in 1984.
Efforts to address the needs of students with disabilities attending Oregon State University began in the early 1970s with the formation of the Advisory Committee for Persons with Disabilities. The committee sought to comply with Section 204 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act, including making buildings increasingly accessible. In 1977, Pamela Walker became the first Coordinator of Services to the Handicapped. The goal of the position was to create a program that provided services for students with disabilities and identified barriers to student success.
The Disability Access Services Office began as Handicapped Services, located in the Counseling Center, during the late 1970s. In the early 1980s, Handicapped Services became the office of Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD). The office was transferred from the Counseling Center to the Office of Student Services, later renamed the Dean of Students Office, in January 1984. During the 1990s, the SSD office would experience two additional moves, first to the Office of Academic Affairs during the Fall of 1994, and later to the Office of Student Affairs during the Fall of 1997. The Services for Students with Disabilities office would later be renamed as the Disability Access Services office.
As the office evolved, new programs and services were introduced to address the growing needs of students, including the Learning Disabilities Program, approved in the mid-1980s, and the Disability Access Services Testing Center, opened in 2012. Student organizations were also founded alongside the programs. The Handicapped Students Unlimited became a recognized student organization in 1976, hosting the first Handicapped Awareness Week in May of 1978. The organization would later be renamed as the Disabled Students Organization.
Marie Norris pursued a life of active service for her Klamath community. In addition to founding the Organization of Forgotten Americans in 1969 to address the effects of tribal termination, Norris served on the Klamath Tribal Executive Committee on Claims, the Klamath Indian Game Commission, the Civil Rights Committee for the state of Oregon, the Klamath County Juvenile Advisory Council, and the Committee of Oregon Rural Opportunities. Norris spoke frequently about Native American culture and was one of the last people able to speak the Klamath language. Oregon Governor Vic Atiyeh declared Norris as one of the most outstanding women in Oregon history. Marie G. Norris was born on January 15, 1920 in Modoc Point, Oregon; she died on August 16, 1981 in Klamath Falls, Oregon.
Roger Weaver, an Oregon State University faculty member in English literature and poetry from 1962 to 1996, met Norris in 1974 during a storytelling event. Weaver was inspired by Norris to develop a course on Native American literature in which he featured some of her stories. Weaver, in turn, inspired Norris to compile and write her stories as a book. Roger Keys Weaver was born in Portland, Oregon on February 2, 1935 and graduated from Salem High School in 1953. In addition to his University teaching, Weaver has taught children, youth, and adults in school settings as well as through workshops and summer programs.
Robert W. Newburgh joined the faculty of Oregon State College in 1953 as a research associate in the Chemistry Department. He became an Assistant Professor the following year and was promoted through the faculty ranks to Professor in 1961. Newburgh was appointed the acting chair of the Biochemistry and Biophysics Department when it was established in 1967 and was named chair in 1968; he served as Director of the Science Research Institute from 1971 to 1974. Newburgh became Dean of the Graduate School in 1976, a position he held until he left OSU in 1979 to become Section Head for Molecular and Genetic Biosciences at the National Science Foundation. Newburgh officially retired from Oregon State in late 1981 and was awarded emeritus status.
Newburgh's research was in the field of developmental and cell biology, using primarily insects and cell cultures as models. He focused on the neural development of a variety of organisms.
Newburgh earned his BS in Chemistry from the University of Iowa in 1949 and his MS (1951) and Ph.D. (1953) degrees in Biochemistry at the University of Wisconsin. After leaving OSU, Newburgh worked at the National Science Foundation for several years and then became head of the Biological and Biomedical Division of the Office of Naval Research. In 1995, he became the Executive Director of The Protein Society, a position he held until 2003.
The first meeting of the Western Small Fruit Virus Disease Conference was held in Portland, Oregon, in January 1950. For many years prior to 1950, a number of agriculture-related groups met in Portland each year during the second week of January. Many of the meetings were related to the control of insects and diseases. Small fruit crops (specifically strawberries and raspberries) were included in those meetings, but there was not a specific meeting devoted to small fruit diseases.
Individuals working specifically on small fruit diseases held an informal gathering in Portland in January 1949 and decided to develop a more formal meeting, with a program, for January 1950 that would include breeders, plant pathologists, and entomologists. Robert Rosenstiel, a faculty member in the Entomology Department at Oregon State College and specialist on insect pests of small fruits, especially strawberries, was involved in these initial meetings.
The conference included scientists from Oregon, Washington, California, and British Columbia; the role of chair rotated between the 3 states and British Columbia. In the 1950s and 1960s the organization was known as the Western Small Fruit Virus Disease Conference; through the early 1970s, the name Western Small Fruit Disease Conference was used; by the 1990s, it was known as the Western Small Fruit Pest Conference.
Richard H. (Dick) Converse was a plant pathologist and small fruit virus specialist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural Research Service Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory on the Oregon State University campus in Corvallis from the late 1960s until his retirement in 1990.
Milton Oscar Stemmler was born in 1871 in Sebastian County, Arkansas to parents Jacob Stemmler and Sarah Howeth. In 1881, Stemmler and his family moved to Oregon, eventually settling on a ranch in Coos County. He began attending Oregon Agricultural College in 1892, working his way through college as a teacher, before graduating with a degree in Agriculture in 1895. While attending OAC, he also participated on the college football team during the 1894/1895 season.
After graduating from OAC, Stemmler taught for a year in Merced, California before moving out to St. Louis, Missouri to study medicine at Marion-Sims Medical College. He graduated from Marion-Sims Medical College in 1900 and practiced general medicine in St. Louis for a year before returning to the Pacific Northwest, moving to Spokane, Washington. In January of 1904, he married Mary Marie Barton, and the two of them eventually moved back to Coos County, Oregon. Stemmler resided in Coos County, Oregon with his wife and four children until passing away in December of 1916 from typhoid fever.
The Counseling and Testing Bureau was established at Oregon State College in 1946 to provide guidance services to World War II veterans; services were expanded to all Oregon State students in 1948. The Counseling and Testing Center was overseen by the School of Education and the Psychology Department until 1962 when it became a unit of the Office of the Dean of Students. During the 1990s, it became University Counseling and Psychological Services; in 2006, the name was changed to Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS).
The University Exploratory Studies Program was established in 1973 as a special counseling and advising service for freshmen and sophomores, which was coordinated by the Director of the Counseling Center. The Center also administered aid and assistance for handicapped students beginning in 1975. Study skills and tutoring programs were conducted by the Center until 1975.
As of the late 1980s, the primary role of the Counseling and Testing Center was to provide services to Oregon State University students who needed assistance in formulating and implementing their educational and career plans, in increasing their self-understanding and self-acceptance, and in developing skills for establishing and maintaining effective personal and social relationships. The Center provided individual and group counseling; administered interest, personality, achievement, and aptitude tests; and served as a resource for OSU faculty and staff.
In 2009, Counseling and Psychological Services provides a variety of services to help students understand themselves better, create and maintain satisfying relationships, improve their academic performance, and make healthy and satisfying career and life choices.
The Center for Research on Student Life and Development was established by the Office of the Dean of Students in 1969 under the direction of Morris LeMay, who had joined the Counseling Center staff in 1964. LeMay became the director of the Counseling and Testing Center in 1971. He retired from Oregon State University in 1994.
John L. Robbins enrolled at Oregon State University in the fall of 1968, attended Oregon State for the 1968-1969 through 1972-1973 academic years, and earned a BS in Industrial Arts Education in June 1973. Robbins was Photography Editor for the 1971 Beaver yearbook and Editor for the 1973 Beaver. Johnny Lee Robbins was born in Medford, Oregon, and graduated from Medford High School in 1968.
Ruby Elliott, from Gresham, Oregon, attended Oregon Agricultural College in the 1908/1909 and 1909/1910 academic years. She married LeRoy Breithaupt in 1912. LeRoy Breithaupt graduated from Oregon Agricultural College in 1910 with a degree in agriculture. He was superintendent of the Harney Agricultural Experiment Station from 1912 to 1917; became the Malheur County extension agent in 1920; and was an extension specialist in agricultural economics from 1926 until his retirement in 1951.
Natalie Reichart attended Oregon Agricultural College from 1917 to 1920. She earned her undergraduate degree from Columbia University and graduate degree from New York University. She returned to Oregon State College as faculty member in physical education in 1925, a position she held until 1945.
Gilman Keasey was National Archery Champion in 1935 and 1936 and taught a new course in archery for men at Oregon State College in 1935-1936; he returned to Oregon State in the fall of 1945 to teach archery to veterans taking physical education.
Eleanor May, Frances Miriam, and Mary Marcella Spike were all born in Echo, Oregon, and attended Echo High School. Eleanor May (born June 4, 1902) and Frances Miriam (born Sept 6, 1900) attended Oregon Agricultural College during the 1919/1920, 1920/1921, 1923/24, and 1924/25 academic years and earned BS degrees in home economics in 1925. Eleanor subsequently earned an MS in Household Administration from Oregon State College in 1933; Eleanor was Associate Professor and Director of the Home Management Houses from the mid-1930s until the mid-1940s. Frances completed an MS in Foods and Nutrition at Oregon State in 1936.
Mary Marcella (born September 8, 1913) attended Oregon State college during the 1931/32 and 1933/34 academic years; during the first year she was a student in commerce and during the second year she studied pharmacy. She did not complete a degree at Oregon State. She married Carl J. Weltzin in 1935; Mary died in 2008.
Since its establishment in the early 1880s, the Herbarium has served as the chief repository for the University's collection of flora as well as a laboratory for the study and identification of plants and fungi. Managed since 1883 by a Curator under the auspices of the Department of Botany and Horticulture, the focus of the Herbarium has shifted away from the traditional role of student instruction and more toward the acquisition and cataloging of Pacific Northwest plant specimens. As a research facility, the Herbarium has become the leading center for research on the taxonomy of mycorrhizal fungi. Currently housed at Cordley Hall, the Herbarium has moved many times from its original location in Education Hall. The Herbarium has also resided in the Strand Agricultural building, the basement of the Memorial Union, and Gill Coliseum. In 1993, under pressure to cut costs stemming from state budget reductions, the University of Oregon Herbarium merged with the facility at OSU, increasing the number of plant specimens housed at Cordley Hall by nearly one- third. Willamette University's collection of flora has also recently been transferred to the OSU Herbarium.
Oregon State University's first Native American Longhouse was organizationally established in 1971 and physically located a year later in a World War II-era Quonset hut placed directly west of Weatherford Hall. From the outset, the mission of the Longhouse has been to "honor the cultures of the First People of this land, including Alaskan Natives and Hawaiian Natives." A focal point for the Native community on campus, the Longhouse has served as a gathering place for students, faculty and staff and has also promoted cross-cultural outreach through a variety of recreational and educational programs. In collaboration with other campus groups, including the Native American Student Association, the Longhouse has been instrumental in the organization of numerous events, including the annual salmon bake and Klatow Eena (Chinook for "Go Beavers") pow wow.
The original Longhouse facility was remodeled in 1999 to insure compliance with health and safety regulations. Over the next decade, momentum built to replace the facility entirely and in May 2011 ground was broken for a new Longhouse, to be located directly south of the existing Quonset hut. Dedicated in May 2013, the Eena Haws (Chinook for "Beaver House") Native American Longhouse became the new home of the Native American Longhouse. Designed by the Seattle architectural firm of Jones & Jones, the 3,700 square foot Eena Haws facility includes a large gathering hall, study space, kitchen facilities, computer labs, administrative offices and art collection, including a 360-degree totem carved by Clarence Mills of Vancouver, B.C.
In addition to the Native American Longhouse, Oregon State University is home to three other cultural centers, each with their own facility: the Asian & Pacific Cultural Center; the Lonnie B. Harris Black Cultural Center; and the Centro Cultural César Chávez.
Frank Gillette Sutherland from Minneapolis, Minnesota, was a freshman at Oregon Agricultural College during the 1912-1913 academic year. He earned a BS degree in agriculture from Oregon Agricultural College in 1917.
Benjamin Boreman Stout worked as a a forestry researcher, professor and university administrator before moving to Oregon in 1985, where he continued his work as a researcher, advocate, and writer. A native of West Virginia, Stout earned a BS in forestry from West Virginia University in 1947, a Master of Forestry in silviculture from Harvard University in 1950, and a Ph.D. in ecology from Rutgers University in 1967. He served as manager of Harvard University's Black Rock Research Forest in Cornwall, New York from 1950 to 1959 when he joined the faculty of Rutgers University in forestry. He was appointed an Associate Provost at Rutgers during his tenure there and became Dean of Forestry at the University of Montana in 1978. His research interests were hardwood silviculture, biophysical relationships in trees, and analysis of complex ecological systems.
In 1985, he joined the West Coast Regional Center of the National Council of the Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement (NCASI) in Corvallis, Oregon as the National Air Quality/Forest Health Program Manager. He retired from the position in 1988 and moved to Albany, Oregon.
Stout remained active during his retirement as a researcher, writer, and advocate in forestry and natural resources issues. He served as the senior natural resources advisor for his local state legislator, Liz Van Leeuwen, and on the Board of Directors of the Oregon State Fish Hatchery. From 1988 to 2002, he held a courtesy appointment in the Oregon State University College of Forestry. He authored numerous scientific articles and two books on natural resources, including The Northern Spotted Owl: An Oregon View
which describes the history of northwest forest legislation in the the 1980s and 1990s. Stout died in 2007.
On July 24, 1911, Oregon Agricultural College's Board of Regents organized the Oregon Extension Service in response to requests from citizens of Oregon for assistance (particularly in agriculture) from the college. In May of 1914, nearly three years after Oregon had established its Extension Service, President Woodrow Wilson signed the federal Smith-Lever law, which provided federal money for the establishment of extension services in all states for developing off-campus programs, primarily in agriculture and home economics. The first home extension agents were hired in August 1917 to do wartime emergency work; several of the agents were retained by counties after World War I. By 1937, all counties had at least one county extension agent. During the Extension Service's first forty years, it concentrated on three traditional programmatic areas -- agriculture, home economics, and 4-H.
The Oregon Agricultural Experiment Station was established under the provisions of the federal Hatch Act of 1887, which provided grants of $15,000 to each U.S. state and territory for experimentation in the "principles and applications of agricultural science." Agricultural experimentation began at Oregon Agricultural College in 1888 under Edgar Grimm, the Station's first director, and in 1889 state legislation was approved formally establishing the Experiment Station.
Proposals for a student activity center on the Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) campus began in 1920. Planning and fundraising for the building was approved by the Student Assembly in May 1921 and by the College administration in October of the same year. The building, named the OAC Memorial Union, was intended to "provide a suitable center for student and alumni activities...and stand as a lasting memorial erected to the honor and memory of the students and alumni who gave their lives in the service of their country...". By the winter of 1923, a governing structure had been established for the Union, which was largely separate from the College administration. The Memorial Union was officially incorporated in 1924. Edward Christopher (E. C.) Allworth, an Oregon Agricultural College alumnus and World War I veteran, was hired by OAC in 1925 to fill the positions of secretary of the Alumni Association, secretary of the Memorial Union Board of Governors, and manager of the Memorial Union.
Beginning in 1922, $3 of each student's term registration fees were committed to the Memorial Union. Early pledge signings began in May 1924 when graduating students were asked to commit $50 to the Memorial Union. The first official Memorial Union pledge drive began in January 1925 and was operated predominately by students organized into teams by class and overseen by a "colonel." The campaign focused on College employees (who were encouraged to donate between $250 and $1000) and students (who were asked to contribute $100). By the spring of 1925, the Memorial Union had collected pledges representing $375,000.
A second drive was held in March 1926. By June 1926, pledges had surpassed $500,000 and the Union had collected approximately $125,000 of the $200,000 cash needed to begin construction. Anticipating forthcoming payments on pledges, the Memorial Union Board of Governors approved excavation of the site, which began on May 5, 1927. In June 1927, despite having not yet reached the $200,000 cash goal, the Board elected to begin construction using a loan (with the unpaid pledges as security) from the Marine National Bank of Seattle. The total cost of the building was estimated at $560,000. A final drive was held in February and March 1928 with a focus on building furnishings, though results fell short of the $120,000 quota. The Union also hosted supplemental drives targeting alumni in Benton County and Portland, Oregon and encouraged pledging individuals to increase or renew their pledges.
Construction of the Memorial Union was completed on June 1, 1928 and the dedication ceremony took place one year later on June 1, 1929. Efforts to collect on pledge debts continued far beyond the building's grand opening. E.C. Allworth, the Memorial Union Manager, oversaw an intensive campaign of by-mail solicitations to those with outstanding pledges using both form and direct letters. These exchanges are well documented within the Memorial Union Campaign Records. Ultimately, the Memorial Union resorted to employing attorneys to act as collection agents and, in a relatively small number of cases, pursued legal action against pledging individuals. Attempts to recover pledged funds continued into 1944.
Oregon State University's Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity (OAAEO) was founded in 1972 to ensure that all University community members uphold federal and state civil rights laws and regulations as well as the University's equal opportunity policies.
The OAAEO manages the University's affirmative action and equal opportunity efforts by establishing policies and procedures and by evaluating hiring and recruitment practices. The office investigates and resolves discrimination complaints and coordinates the University's obligations under the Americans with Disabilities Act. The OAAEO also offers training and education on a variety of topics related to affirmative action and equal opportunity.
Directors of the Office of Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity have included Ronald McClain (1973-1975); Pearl Spears Gray (1976-1987); Stephanie Sanford (1987-2000); and Angelo Gomez (2000-).
The Fish, Game and Fur Animal Management Department was created in 1935 under the jurisdiction of the School of Agriculture. Roland E. Dimick was the first department chair, a position he held until 1963. The department operated the OSC Experimental Fur Farm from 1937 to 1957 and also established field stations on Protection and Eliza Islands in Puget Sound and a fisheries lab at Yaquina, Oregon. The department's name was changed to Fish and Game Management in 1936, and in 1964 was renamed Fisheries and Wildlife. Thomas G. Scott was department chair from 1963 to 1972.
The Oregon Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit was established in 1935 as a cooperative venture between the U.S. Biological Survey, the American Wildlife Institute, the Oregon State Game Commission, and Oregon State College. Arthur Einarson, U.S. Biological Survey research biologist, served as Unit Leader from 1935 to 1957, directing its graduate training and research programs. The unit was discontinued in 1961.
The Oregon Pioneers oral histories were conducted in the summer of 1975 by Oregon State University students enrolled in J 407A Seminar: An Oral/Written History of Oregon Pioneers offered by the Journalism Department. The interviews were used to prepare a publication, Pioneers, published by the Journalism Department and the Summer Term Office that included articles on pioneers, the Yaquina Bay Life Saving Station, Philomath College, the Siletz Indians, Fort Hoskins, the Willamette River, regional railroads, Eddyville, and Chautauqua events in the area.
Leo Sciuchetti received a B.S. degree from Idaho State College in 1940, an M.S. from Washington State College in 1942, and a Ph.D. from the University of Washington in 1957. He came to Oregon State College in 1946 and was a Professor of Pharmacognosy until his resignation in June 1967. He spent the 1966/67 academic year as an Associate Program Director at the National Science Foundation.
Richard Y. Morita was a faculty member in microbiology and oceanography at Oregon State University from 1962 through 1988 and pursued an active research program as a Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Oceanography from 1989 through the early 2000s.
Richard Yukio Morita was born on March 27, 1923 in Pasadena, California. He graduated from Pasadena High School in 1941. In 1942 the Morita family was forced to enter an internment camp; they were first sent to Tulare Assembly Center in southern California, and then to the Gila River War Relocation Center in Arizona. Richard Morita left the camp later in 1942 to attend the University of Nebraska, but was drafted into and served in the U. S. Army 442nd Regiment Combat Team in 1944-1946. Afterwards, he earned a B.S. in Bacteriology-Chemistry from the University of Nebraska in 1947, an M.S. in Bacteriology from the University of Southern California in 1949, and a Ph. D. in Microbiology-Oceanography from the University of California, Scripps Institution of Oceanography in 1954, where he was the first Nisei (second-generation Japanese American) to graduate. He held several assistant professorships before coming to OSU, where he was an Associate Professor of Microbiology and Oceanography in 1962-1964. In 1964 he became a full Professor at OSU, a post he held until 1988. OSU granted him Professor Emeritus status in 1989. He also served as program director for biochemistry at the National Science Foundation in 1968-1969. Morita married Toshiko Nishihara on March 14, 1953 and they had three children: Sally Jean, Ellen Jane, and Peter Wayne. He was the likely the first Nisei in biological oceanography, and one of the first Nisei with academic rank in microbiology.
During his career, Morita was part of several large research expeditions. He was a microbiologist for three of them: the Mid-Pacific Expedition of 1950 (where he was the first microbiologist to study the deep sea), the 1952 Royal Danish Navy Galathea Deep Sea Expedition, and the Trans-Pacific Expedition of 1953. In 1962 he was an invited investigator for Expedition Dodo. Morita studied microbiology in extreme earth environments, including the polar regions and the deep sea. Some of his important contributions to the field include: the discovery of barophiles (pressure loving bacteria) with his mentor Dr. Claude ZoBell; demonstrating that enzyme reactions can occur over 100°C; the discovery of psychrophiles (cold-loving bacteria); the concept of starvation-survival in bacteria; and with Francisco Torrella, the discovery that the marine environment has many phage particles. The genus Moritella was named after him to honor his work in marine microbiology. Several significant awards he received include the Fisher Scientific Company Award from the American Society of Microbiology in 1988; a Queen Elizabeth II Senior Fellowship from the Australian Government, 1973-1974; a King Fredericus IX Medal and Ribbon for participating in the Galathea Expedition; a Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Fellowship 1978, and an honorary membership in the American Society of Microbiology, 1990
The pre-history of Oregon State University's Center for the Humanities can be traced to the Humanities Grant Study Committee, a collection of fifteen department chairs and faculty representatives from OSU's departments of Art, English, History, Modern Languages, Music, Philosophy, and Religious Studies, as well as the College of Liberal Arts Dean's Office. Led by faculty members Gordon Gilkey and Richard Astro, the study committee was charged with evaluating the feasibility of major changes to the humanities curriculum at Oregon State and exploring the possibility of applying for funds from the National Endowment for the Humanities that might facilitate changes of this sort.
The product of this group's work was a successful NEH Development Grant proposal that made a significant impact on the university's intellectual culture. The 1977 grant, titled "An Exploration of Community," steered just under $1,000,000 in federal money to the university for use in developing curricula in four areas: Northwest Studies; Marine and Maritime Studies; Community Studies; and Studies in Science, Technology, and Values. Administered by the newly created Humanities Development Program, these interdisciplinary certificate programs were meant to both broadly strengthen OSU's humanities offerings and to link study in the humanities to courses already extant in the university's science and professional schools.
The Humanities Development Program was run from the outset by Peter Copek, a faculty member in English, and it succeeded in filling a void at OSU. During the program's six year lifespan, over fifty faculty members participated in the development effort, creating sixty-five courses in what became three program areas. (The program's "Community Studies" and "Science, Technology and Values" offerings were reorganized as "Twentieth Century Studies.")
The Humanities Development Program contributed to the vigor of campus life in other ways, in part through its use of NEH funds and other support from organizations including the Oregon Humanities Committee to sponsor a wide array of campus events. Seminars, musical performances and film screenings were common sources of outreach for the program, which also supported and helped to organize at least four conferences. Perhaps most notably, Copek, who maintained a scholarly interest in film studies, co-founded the International Film Series, which screened independent and foreign films every weekend during the academic year for over twenty years, beginning in 1977.
The OSU Center for the Humanities was created as a result of a second NEH grant, this time a challenge grant which, in 1984, awarded $700,000 to the university following its own success in raising an additional $1.4 million from private donors. The $2.1 million total was used to endow the Center which, as with the Humanities Development Program before, was run by Peter Copek. In addition to continued offerings within the certificate programs, the new center also unveiled a fellowship program which provided stipends for both OSU faculty and "external fellows" to conduct research in the humanities, usually for one term. For external fellows, the funds provided by the Center supported travel, lodging and office space. Similarly, the Center lessened the load on internal OSU fellows by paying others to teach the courses to which they were normally assigned. The Center likewise continued to organize and support various events on campus, including multiple music festivals, a lecture series (keynoted by Gore Vidal) marking the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution, and a symposium on the military-industrial complex.
In its early years, Center for the Humanities operations were run out of an office located in Moreland Hall. That changed in June 1989 when the Center moved into what would become its permanent home, a former sorority house on Jefferson Avenue. At the time of its formal purchase by the university in 1993, the facility was christened the Autzen House in honor of the Autzen Foundation of Portland, which provided major funding for the acquisition of the space.
The Center enjoyed stability and moderate growth throughout the 1990s, but change came suddenly in June 2001, when Peter Copek died at the age of fifty-six from a heart attack that struck in the aftermath of gall bladder surgery. English professor David Robinson was subsequently named director of the Center. Under Robinson's leadership, the OSU Center for the Humanities has continued to sponsor academic fellowships and to support campus and community offerings, including two annual events - The Magic Barrel Reading to Fight Hunger and The OSU Holocaust Memorial Program. The certificate programs that emerged from the original 1977 NEH grant are no longer offered at OSU; removal of the last of them, Twentieth Century Studies, was initiated in 2005.
The Minority Education Office provides a safe and welcoming place for students who are navigating the challenges of being a cultural, racial, or ethnic minority at OSU. The Minority Education Office is composed of four culturally specific offices staffed by coordinators who have demonstrated expertise in working with their communities: Casa Educacional, the Indian Education Office, Ujima Education Office, and the Asian-Pacific Islander Office.
The Casa Educacional Office seeks to increase Latino/Latina and Chicano/Chicana success at Oregon State University by providing students with a viable support system and advocacy services. Casa Educacional sponsors ¡Si Se Pudo!, a graduation celebration; METAS, a mentorship program for Corvallis Latino high school students; and a new student orientation program.
As 1941 football champion of the Pacific Coast Conference, Oregon State College played in the 1942 Rose Bowl on January 1st in Durham, North Carolina. The game was moved from Pasadena, California, because of the outbreak of war with Japan. Oregon State upset the favored Duke University team 20-16.
Richard W. Gilkey attended Oregon State College from 1948 to 1953 and earned his BS in Science Education in 1951 and MS in Education in 1953. He was one of the first student photographers to document campus life in an official university capacity; many of his photographs were published in the Beaver yearbooks and Oregon Stater alumni magazine. He also worked as a stringer photographer for the Oregon Journal newspaper in Portland. He co-founded with other students, the Memorial Union Camera Club, which held an annual Spring Salon.
Gilkey was Supervisor of Audiovisual Education for the Portland Public Schools beginning in 1966 and Director of Educational Media from 1972 until his retirement in 1993.
The Archives developed an exhibit of his work that was held on campus in 2005 during the Golden Jubilee reunion weekend.
Nettie Spencer was born near Corvallis in 1861 to Oregon pioneer parents. She graduated from Corvallis College in 1882, and spent the next several years teaching and studying at various places in the U.S. and abroad, including Portland, Davenport College (North Carolina), Berlin, Paris, London and India. She returned to Oregon in 1916 and taught at Eugene and Roseburg High Schools. Spencer received a masters degree in sociology from Oregon State in 1928. She was a charter member of the Mazamas, a Portland mountain climbing club, and in 1935 was elected president of the Oregon State Women's Press Club. Spencer died in Portland in 1953.
Ellis Samuel Dement was born January 10, 1890 in Norway, Oregon to Russell Cook Dement and Lucy Ann Dement. He had seven siblings: Nellie Estelle, Eunice Viola, Raymond Benton, Winnifred Elizabeth, Clare Leroy, Lester Thomas (his twin), and Harry George. Ellis's father, Russell, worked the ranch that his father, Samuel Maxwell Dement, established, and worked as a cattle rancher his entire life.
Dement attended Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) from 1907 to 1911, graduating with a degree in agriculture. After graduation, Dement returned to the family ranch and became a stock raiser. In 1914 he married Cecile Beryl (Miller) Dement. They had three children: Aileen Dorothy, Russell Albert, and Ellis Samuel Jr (who went by Sam).
Sam, the youngest of Dement’s children, went on to be something of a star at Oregon State College (OSC). He attended from 1939 to 1943, and like his father pursued a degree in agriculture. Sam was a forward on OSC’s varsity basketball team from 1940 to 1943, and helped the team take second place in the regional tournament. Sam’s graduation was fast tracked when he was drafted into World War II; when he returned from service overseas he went back to work on the Dement Ranch with his brother, Russell.
Sam and Russell Dement continued to expand the family ranch, and it achieved some prominence in the Oregon ranching community. In 1997, Russell and Sam filed to turn the ranch into a Limited Liability Corporation, ensuring its longevity. The ranch has continued to expand over the years, and in 2009 was designated as a Century Ranch by the Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program. Sam and Russell eventually deeded the farm to Sam’s two daughters, Diane Simon and Joan Harpole. They are the fifth generation to assume ownership, and continue to manage the farm as of this writing.
Ellis Samuel Dement died October 29, 1972 in Myrtle Point, Oregon.
Formed in 1991, the Office of Multicultural Affairs assists OSU in the promotion of cultural diversity, awareness, and sensitivity throughout the campus community. In this capacity, the office serves as a resource for the OSU community and the region in understanding multicultural issues; helps in the recruitment and retention of students, staff, and faculty from ethnic, racial, and other underrepresented groups; participates in curriculum development; and provides consultation services to all academic and support units.
The development of the Office of Multicultural Affairs is rooted in recommendations made by two advisory bodies, the OSU Board of Visitors and the Minority Affairs Commission. Created by President Byrne in 1986 to investigate ways to enhance diversity at OSU, the Board of Visitors advocated for the formation of a Minority Affairs Commission, which, in turn, argued for the establishment of an office devoted to addressing multicultural affairs. Phyllis Lee became the office’s first director.
After Lee retired in 2003, the Office of Multicultural Affairs was renamed the Office of Community and Diversity and Terryl Ross appointed as new director in 2004. The basic mission of the office, however, did not change.
Appointed to the OSU Board of Visitors in 1986, Phyllis Lee served as acting director of the Office of Multicultural Affairs before assuming the directorship in 1992. After earning a doctorate in counseling from OSU in 1983, Lee worked for Kaiser Permanente in Portland before returning to campus in 1991. Lee also worked as a public school teacher and in counseling education at Portland State University prior to her post with the Office of Multicultural Affairs.
Eldurkar Bhaskar was born in Chennai, India, in Tamil Nadu in 1942. He came to Corvallis for the first time in 1969 to do his master’s degree in solid state devices. He moved back to India after completing his degree, but moved back to Corvallis in 1980 to do his PhD and work at Hewlett-Packard. While he did not manage to complete his doctorate, Bhaskar made significant research contributions at HP to technology contributing to the creation of the inkjet printer.
Sucheta Bhaskar was born in Vellore, India, in Tamil Nadu in July, 1949. Before living in Corvallis, she worked in India as a preparatory (kindergarten) teacher. After marrying and moving to Corvallis, Sucheta worked as a preschool teacher. She is married to Eldurkar Bhaskar and has two children, Jayant and Jyoti Bhaskar.
Bella Bose was born in a small village in India in 1950. He moved to the United States in 1977 to do his PhD in 1977, coming to Oregon State University in 1980. He is currently a professor and Senior Associate School Head of the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. His current research interests include error control codes, parallel processing, and computer networks. He has two children, Sonia and Varun.
Sam Karipalli was born in April 1942 in Lakkavaram, India. He moved to the United States in 1980 and worked at Hewlett-Packard for more than twenty-five years. He is currently retired. He is married to Jessie Karipalli and has two children, Kaasu and Sunnika.
Jessie Karipalli was born in November 1946 in Sakhinetipalli, India. She moved to the United States in 1980, first working in a nursing home and then and working at Hewlett-Packard. She is currently retired. She is married to Sam Karipalli and has two children, Kaasu and Sunnika.
Parthasarathy (Partha) Lakkur was born in July 1944, in Hosadurga, India as one of six children. After doing a bachelor’s in sciences and bachelors in engineering in India, he came to the United States in 1967 to attend college at SUNY Stony Brook, during the height of the Vietnam War. After receiving his master’s degree and PhD, Partha moved to Corvallis, Oregon to work at Hewlett-Packard. He has lived in Corvallis for almost forty years. He is married to Surya Lakkur and has two children, Manu and Vinu.
Surya Lakkur was born in the small town of Kommbai, India, in October of 1950. She is a first-generation college student and is grateful to her parents for moving her family to the city of Tiruchirapalli (Trichi), India, so their six children could all get a good education. Surya did her B.S. in economics in Trichi and later did a second B.S. in computer science at Oregon State University, later working as a software engineer at Hewlett-Packard and FISA (Fiserv, a financial services company with a Corvallis office). She is married to Partha Lakkur and has two children, Manu and Vinu.
Muthukrishna (Ram) Ramanujam was born October, 1950, in Tiruchirappalli, India. Ram resides in Corvallis, Oregon, originally coming to Oregon State University for graduate school in 1979, and then returning to Corvallis in 1988 to work at Hewlett-Packard. Before moving to Corvallis permanently, Ram worked in California for both National Semiconductor and Intel. He is married to Kalyani Ramanujam, and has three children, Sangeetha, Chuck, and Madhu.
Kalyani Ramanujam was born May, 1958, in Kariyamanickam, India. Kalyani lives in Corvallis, Oregon, moving to the town in 1988 with her family. Before living in Corvallis, Kalyani lived in Hyderabad, India, and California. She currently works in quality control at Hewlett-Packard. She is married to Ram Ramanujam and has three children, Sangeetha, Chuck, and Madhu.
Prasad Tadepalli was born on January 24th, 1959 in Machilipatnam, India. He moved to the United States in 1982 on assignment as a programmer. He later decided to do a PhD in computer science, graduating from Rutgers University in 1989 and taking a job at Oregon State University as an assistant professor. He is now a professor in computer science, specializing in artificial intelligence.
Donald Wesley Morse attended Oregon Agricultural College beginning in the 1917-1918 academic year and earned a B.S. degree in Commerce in 1921, completing his coursework at the end of the 1921 Summer Session. Morse was an active member of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity and the debate team.
Don Morse was one of the earliest volunteers to the Battalion Engineers after the United States entered World War I, enlisting on June 12, 1917 at the age of 18. Because he held a Federal Amateur Radio Operators License, he was asked to transfer to the Navy’s radio service. On July 23, 1917, he entered the Navy at Bremerton, Washington and was a radio instructor at the training camp on the University of Washington campus. Morse was discharged on December 22, 1918.
Donald Wesley Harsh Morse was born in Des Moines, Iowa on October 12, 1898, the only son of Fred and Agnes Morse. By the time of his enrollment at Oregon Agricultural College, he was a resident of Seattle, Washington. Morse married Marguerite Volbrecht, also an Oregon Agricultural College alumnus, on September 11, 1921. Morse was a patient at the U.S. Veterans Hospital in Walla Walla, Washington for more than a year where he received treatment for tuberculosis that he developed during his service in World War I. Morse moved from the Veterans Hospital to Seattle in early March 1923. He died at his parents’ home in Seattle on May 23, 1923.
Courses in elocution and speech have been taught at Oregon State University since its founding in the 1860s. During the 1890s, these were taught by the Department of Elocution and later by the Department of Public Speaking. The Department of Public Speaking and Dramatics was established in 1920, as the first Speech Department in Oregon, and grew quickly during the 1920s. Courses in "speech correction" were added in the mid-1920s. When higher education in Oregon was re-organized in the early 1930s, responsibility for speech degrees was transferred to the University of Oregon and several faculty moved to establish the program. However, the service department at Oregon State continued to offer courses in debating, extempore speaking, oratory, voice and diction, and radio speech and coordinated an extensive program of forensics and dramatic activities for students.
In 1965-1966, the Speech Department was one of the first departments to offer an undergraduate degree in the new School of Humanities and Social Sciences. In 1970, the department name was changed to Speech Communication.
C.B. (Charles Buren) Mitchell joined the faculty of Oregon Agricultural College in 1920 to head the new Department of Public Speaking and Dramatics. Earl W. Wells joined the department at about the same time (1921); he was instrumental in developing the forensics and public speaking program and coached orators who gained national prominence. Wells served as Speech Department Chair from 1952 until his retirement in 1962.
Ina Lee Rihani, born Ina Lee Hand, enrolled at Oregon State University in the early 1970s and earned a B.A. in Sociology in 1975. Rihani became a clerical assistant in the Archives at Oregon State University in September 1975. She held this position for about 15 months, until early January 1977, when she resigned to enroll as a full-time graduate student at Oregon State. She completed her M.A. in Interdisciplinary Studies in 1982.
Ina Lee Hand married Sarmad Rihani on July 12, 1975. The Rihanis' first son, Cedar Samard Rihani, was born on November 11, 1977.
These oral histories recount the work of Portland's African American railroad porters in the early and mid-20th century, at a time when job opportunities for African American males were largely limited to service jobs. The subjects featured in these interviews include prominent figures both within and beyond the African American community.
To highlight the significance of these interview subjects, the following is a brief overview of the work of a selection of interviewees: Otto Rutherford was involved in the Portland chapter of the NAACP and played an important role in the successful passage of the Public Accommodations Bill, also known as the Oregon Civil Rights Bill, in the state legislature in 1953; E. Shelton Hill arrived in Portland in 1941 as a railroad employee, served as president of the Urban League of Portland from 1959 to 1973, and successfully advocated for the rights of Oregon’s African Americans; and James Brooks who served as director of the Urban League of Portland from 1974-1978, after heading several of the League's programs.
An educator and co-founder of the World Arts Foundation, Michael "Chappie" Grice has been an advocate for the preservation of African-American culture. In 2010, he was honored by the National Education Association with the H. Councill Trenholm Memorial Award. His film on African-American railroad porters was featured at the Oregon Historical Society exhibit "Railroading and Portland's Black Community." The interviews described in this collection form much of the background research used for Grice's 1985 film, "Black Families and the Railroad in Oregon and the Northwest."
The establishment of Students' Army Training Corps units was authorized by the Selective Service Act of 1917. The Students' Army Training Corps utilized the facilities, equipment, and faculty of colleges and universities to select and train officer candidates and and provide technical and vocational training during World War I. The unit at Oregon Agricutural College (OAC) formed in early 1918 and included officer trainees as well as draftees to be trained as toolmakers, foundrymen, machinists, auto mechanics, and radio operators. Dissolution of the Corps began with the armistice on November 11, 1918.
The negatives were sent to the OSU Bookstore in 1964 by Kyle S. Smith of the Smith-Western Co.
The memoir was sent to the OSU Foundation by Wesley Ross.
The materials were donated to the Horner Museum in 1986 by Ben L. and Beth Gifford. 
These photographs were acquired by the donor's father-in-law as part of Frodsham's estate after his death.
Robert Smith Trigg and James K. Trigg donated the album and photographs to the Horner Museum in 1973.
The photographs were donated to the Oregon State University Horner Museum in 1986 by Ben L. and Beth Gifford.
The photographs were donated to the Oregon State University Horner Museum in 1986 by Ben L. and Beth Gifford.
The maps were acquired by the Oregon State College Library prior to 1961.
The original photographic prints were loaned to the College of Pharmacy Development Officer for duplication and donation (of the duplicates) to the Archives.
The letters were donated to the Horner Museum in 1992 via James S. Witzig from the estate of Frances Witzig Milne, a niece of Nettie Spencer. They were transferred to the University Archives in August 1996. The scrapbook was donated by Spencer to the Oregon State College Library in 1951 and was ultimately made part of the University Archives holdings after its establishment in 1961.
The Smith-Western Company Photographs of Oregon State College consist of images of campus buildings and sorority and fraternity houses. These images were produced around 1955. Buildings and other views pictured include, but are not limited to, the chemical engineering building (Gleeson Hall), Dearborn Hall, the Library (Kidder Hall), the Women's Building, and the gates of the east campus entrance. A number of cooperative houses are also pictured. The Collection also contains images of 44 different fraternity and sorority houses. The majority of the collection consists of 5x7 negatives. A small number of prints are also included. One of the images is available online in the Best of the Archives digital collection. A link to the digitized image is available from the detailed image descriptions.
Series I consists of images of campus buildings and views. These include dormitories, cooperative houses, and the east campus entrance. This series consists mainly of 5x7 negatives, but also includes a few prints.
Currently houses the administrative offices of the College of Earth, Ocean, and Atmospheric Sciences (Ocean Admin).
Series II consists of images of sorority and fraternity houses. These images were produced around 1955 and consist mainly of 5x7 negatives.
The OSU Queer Archives Oral History Collection seeks to document the experiences and perspectives of members of the LGBTQ+ community who have spent at least portions of their lives at Oregon State University and/or in Benton County, Oregon.
Of particular note is a set of eight interviews conducted by OSU student Kiah McConnell for her 2015 “OSU LGBTQ+ Community Film,” created as part of her honors thesis. An additional set of nine interviews was conducted by the students of the spring 2016 OSU course HST 368 Lesbian and Gay Movements in Modern America with Professor Mina Carson. The collection also includes two event recordings, "The History of Queervallis" and “Occupying Margins: A Panel Discussion on Gender." All interviews were conducted in Corvallis, Oregon.
All interviews and events have been recorded directly to digital video and are available online. Materials assembled in the process of developing interview topics, and permissions forms signed by interview subjects, are also held on site.
Series one consists of eight oral history interviews, a documentary film, and a panel presentation on the LGBTQ+ history of Corvallis, Oregon.
(1:01:28) Rylan Wall begins this one-hour interview by discussing his time serving as co-director for Rainbow Continuum, delving into the issues the organization faced that year with a lack of gender diversity in the leadership and the non-inclusive decision-making that can stem from that situation. Wall talks about the different leadership positions available within Rainbow Continuum at that time, noting that there was a higher than normal rate of student engagement within the organization that year. In addition, Wall briefly discusses his mentor at the Pride Center and the important impact mentorship can have—a topic he returns to later in the interview. Wall details what a typical Rainbow Continuum meeting entailed while he was working there, including a facilitated introduction, and establishing a “safe” or brave space. Wall explains that what would follow was sometimes discussion questions centered on community issues or larger LGBTQ+ issues, and often an activity or game, led by the social director. Wall describes his experience with planning OSU’s Pride Week, including general highlights, again noting that the number of people involved and the number of programs put on was record-breaking that year. Following this, Wall briefly discusses how Rainbow Continuum came to be designated as a voluntary student organization, and the ways that this designation ensured a standard of student autonomy. Wall notes that in his experience, OSU’s administration, faculty, and staff have been supportive of student voices on campus, and seem to always be looking for student input. This conversation brings him back to the importance of mentorship, support, and role models—specifically highlighting the work Jeff Kenney did to improve the Pride Center as Director of Outreach, and how he helped them restructure the center to better fit the expectations of a cultural center. Wall ends by speaking on the importance of having a Pride Center on campus, and how the visibility and resources it provides impacted him in his early days at Oregon State. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
(0:34:51) In the interview, Goetter begins by briefly describing her high school experience, and the lack of a queer community in that space. Because of this, she explains that she was committed to creating that space when she came to Oregon State, but was pleasantly surprised to find that a queer community was already firmly established at the school. Goetter details how Rainbow Continuum was beneficial to her, particularly in her early days at OSU, and how she fell into activist work. Goetter talks about the kind of work she did as web director for the Pride Center, and later as a co-director of Rainbow Continuum. After describing her early involvement at Oregon State, Goetter primarily focuses on the OSU drag show, its history, and its impact. She pinpoints the ways in which the show has created community, and created a space for playfulness and performativity. Goetter emphasizes drag as activist work that is both empowering and political. In the second half of this interview, Goetter describes a Corvallis Gazette article that ultimately prompted changes within the OSU drag show, thanks to input from Dr. Brenda McComb. Because of this, Goetter explains how she has worked to make the drag show open to a wider range of ideas, particularly in making the show more supportive and inclusive of transgender folks. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
(0:07:22) In this brief interview, Guillermo Rebolledo introduces himself and speaks primarily on his experience as an openly gay member of an OSU fraternity. Rebolledo outlines the way assimilation, stereotypes, machismo, and Greek life culture have an impact on openly gay members of this community, including himself. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
(0:11:42) In this short interview, Wicks talks about transgender inclusion efforts in which she has been involved at Oregon State, including a survey she herself initiated as an internship project focusing on OSU’s Pride Center, and another survey conducted by the graduate school and overseen by Dr. Brenda McComb. Wicks describes the ways in which both OSU and other land-grant institutions have made progress in transgender inclusivity, yet still have a long way to go in terms of resources, support, and policy. Wicks also speaks to her involvement at the Pride Center, describing Rainbow Continuum and what it achieves for the community, and detailing Pride Week events on Oregon State’s campus. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
(0:17:43) This interview with Adrian Borycki focuses primarily on their involvement in the Greek community as an openly queer-identified individual. Borycki paints a nuanced picture of Greek life at OSU, describing the ways in which it is both heteronormative and homogenous, but nevertheless supportive in their personal experience. Borycki explains that their sorority, Sigma Kappa, has been very supportive since Borycki came out to their sisters. Borycki explains that they have often felt like a “queer representative” in their sorority, supporting their sisters and having the ability to blend the two OSU worlds of Greek life and the Pride Center. Borycki details micro-aggressions they have experienced at Greek life social events, particularly from fraternities. Borycki ends by speaking about their work as the publications coordinator for the Pride Center, outlining their social media strategy for the center to create a stronger online presence. Borycki explains that the Pride Center’s social media presence is a vital way to keep the community connected, show that there is support, and create an “unassuming way” for students to get involved with the Pride Center—especially for those students who may not be “out” to friends and family. At the time of the interview Borycki used the first name “Sarah.” Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video is available online.
(0:12:11) In the interview, Ish Guevara offers his thoughts on the politics of queer and trans movements and support, both nationally and at Oregon State University. Guevara outlines his vision for stronger collaboration between SOL, the Pride Center, and the other cultural centers. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video is available online.
(0:25:23) In this interview, Allen details their coming out experience as someone who began to explore their identities a little bit later in life. They describe coming out as a process, and describe the way this process looks different with friends, family, teachers, and peers. Allen briefly explores the intersection of masculinity and race, and how this intersection has impacted them as a masculine-presenting person of color. In addition, they share their vision for the future of SOL (the LGBTQ+ Multicultural Network), the Pride Center, and the other cultural centers. Allen explains the ways in which the mere existence of SOL is indicative of a greater problem with inclusion amongst the cultural centers, and a lack of intersectional awareness in their resources and staff. At the end of the interview, Allen briefly discusses Project Social Justice and how it has impacted their life. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
(1:01:55) In this hour-long interview, Jeff Kenney discusses a wide range of topics relating to the culture and history of the Pride Center at OSU, and student affairs and outreach work more generally. Kenney explains that as Coordinator of LGBTQ+ Outreach and Services, his primary goal was to ensure the promotion and success of LGBTQ+ students. He details the responsibilities of this position, including serving as an active liaison to the Pride Center and partnering with other units both on- and off-campus; providing supervision, mentorship, and guidance to OSU students; and mediating pressures to serve both students and staff, to reach outside the OSU community or focus on campus issues. Kenney briefly explains the root of this conflict, detailing the ways in which queer and trans faculty at OSU can feel isolated, as well as face micro-aggressions or direct hostility from their colleagues, but have no significant support for this issue. In addition, he discusses the ins and outs of serving a diverse constituency, not only balancing the demands of students and staff, but also seeking to serve non-students from the surrounding community. Kenney suggests that another pull and tug is experienced by outreach coordinators like himself—being held responsible to both the institution as well as the student body, and having to sometimes represent policies that feel outdated or created from a place of fear. Following Kenney’s in-depth exploration of the many conflicting expectations for outreach coordinators in general, but particularly at Oregon State, he briefly discusses how the push for marriage equality during his time at Oregon State impacted the Pride Center. This part of the discussion details the ways in which marriage equality is important, but also homonormative, and often negates the more pressing needs (i.e. stable jobs, shelter, food) of many queer communities. Kenney concludes the interview with a more general discussion on the Diversity and Cultural Engagement Office at Oregon State. Kenney describes the changes he has observed in the relationships between cultural and resource centers on campus, as students and staff increasingly envision these centers as one consortium. He describes the ways his office has become a more complex organization in reaction to a complex student body, and ends by speaking on the emotional aspect of doing this kind of work. Interviewer: Kiah McConnell. Interview video available online.
OSU LGBTQ+ Community Film by Kiah McConnell, submitted to Oregon State University, University Honors College, in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Honors Baccalaureate of Arts in Sociology, Honors Associate, presented June 2015. The film is available online.
(1:11:00) On Thursday, Oct. 29, 2015, the OSU Pride Center organized the event “The History of Queervallis” with guest speakers Professor Qwo Li Driskill and Assistant Head Advisor for the College of Liberal Arts Tristen Shay who shared their knowledge of queer history on campus and in the Corvallis area. Professor Driskill discussed their research on queer history on both the national and local level. They gave context to the OSU Queer Studies program by talking about the connections between the feminist and LGBTQ+ movements, and spoke specifically about the intersections between gender, sexuality, and race. Shay shared personal stories of his childhood, his activism in high school and college in support of the queer community, and his journey to OSU along with his continued work here in Corvallis. Filmed panel available online.
Series two consists of ten oral history interviews and a panel discussion on gender from the perspective of three OSU students.
(1:48:45) Helding begins the interview by sharing information about his family history and early childhood in Spokane, WA and later Gresham, OR. He shares some of his memories regarding the lack of open discussion about LGBTQ+ issues and lack of support for LGBTQ+ peoples within his communities growing up. Helding then shares his recollections of his time at OSU; he lived in Poling Hall, was an RA in Cauthorn Hall his junior year, and sang with the OSU choir for five years. Helding describes the campus climate in terms of LGBTQ+ issues. During his time on campus, he recalls the “Moral Majority” movement and Evangelical Christian organizations that promoted anti-LGBTQ+ rhetoric and practice emerging at OSU. Helding then begins the story of the 1981 ASOSU vote to fund the Gay People’s Alliance. The interview focuses on the April 28, 1981 meeting in which the ASOSU vote to fund the Gay People’s Alliance was discussed. As this was the second to last meeting of the year, this was the meeting that student groups lobbied for their organizations to be funded. Eddie Hickey represented the Gay People’s Alliance since the student fees committee had denied them funds and they wanted the senate to overturn that ruling. Helding says that he did not know who they were as individuals or as an organization and that the group of individuals were the first openly gay people with whom he interacted. He says that he was interested in the GPA request because it was a new request and thought it should be more seriously considered. Helding then describes the process of the debate on whether or not to fund the GPA – he goes into great detail explaining the discussion, which lasted over an hour, and the pros and cons to funding the GPA. The final vote was 18-13 in favor. Notably, Helding takes time to reflect on his interactions with the GPA members immediately following the meeting. Helding then describes the aftermath of the vote. The arbitration committee approved the entire proposed budget except for the funds for the GPA. Helding continues the interview with his post-OSU life story. He reflects on the importance of the ASOSU GPA vote and its impact on his career. Helding then shares his professional experiences. Helding notes that the oral history interview process has enabled him to reflect upon “touch points in time” throughout his life and how each of his experiences built on each other and helped him be more open and more supportive of the LGBTQ+ community. His last thoughts are about his positive experience of sharing his story as an oral history interview and expresses the power of people sharing their stories. Interviewer: Natalia Fernández. Interview video and detailed interview summary are available online.
(0:42:46) In this interview with Judy Ball, she begins by describing her childhood, which primarily holds good memories despite the poverty she grew up in. She explains that early on in her life, she knew that school would be her only outlet to pursue a better life. For Ball, life in college was dedicated to her studies. After getting her master's degree from Syracuse University, she began working for the federal government. Ball discusses her busy life in Maryland, and her career as a healthcare worker with the federal government, which lasted over 30 years. During this time in her life, Ball was married for ten years. However, Ball explains that their love faded, and she describes the strong sense of independence that has always been an important feature of her personality. In 2008, Ball moved to Corvallis, and her relocation marked the beginning of her involvement with the LGBTQ+ community, as she had fallen in love with a woman and decided to follow her out to the West Coast. Ball admits she had never questioned her sexuality growing up and issues of alternate sexualities were never discussed in the household, which resulted in her finding the whole experience surreal. Although her relationship with this individual eventually came to an end, Ball continues to be very active in the Corvallis community, both serving on the school board and participating in local events. Ball discusses her sexual identity, and though she states that "the evidence would suggest" she is bisexual, she explains that she does not necessarily find herself aligned with this identity. Interviewer: Kristiane Width. Interview video available online.
(0:46:37) In the interview, Williams first discusses her early years being raised in Corvallis, Oregon. Born in 1962, she attended school in Corvallis until leaving for Montana to pursue a college degree. Williams explains that there was little to no talk in her family of the LGBTQ+ community, and that she herself remained in denial of her sexual identity until her mid-twenties. Almost all of her life has been spent in Corvallis, and she offers some insight into the changes the community has experienced. Williams discusses her decision to become a teacher and what it was like to teach at her alma mater, Corvallis High School. Williams explains how her connection to the LGBTQ+ community has both positively and negatively affected her teaching career. She shares her own stories, as well as those of students and fellow faculty members, to showcase the LGBTQ+ -friendly atmosphere at Corvallis High School. The remainder of the interview focuses on the Queer-Straight Alliance club at Corvallis High School. As an integral member of its formation, Williams explains the goals of the QSA. She shares her hopes for the future of the QSA, her take on the community’s response to the QSA, and information on what the club offers for today’s student body. Interviewers: Alyssa Kauth and Kaitlyn Stephen. Interview video available online.
(1:19:39) Jo Casselberry gives an overview of her life in this interview, beginning with her childhood and high school years, and then moving on to her college and post-graduation experiences, including more than 30 years’ experience working at Oregon State University. Casselberry expands on her campus involvement during college, and her part in the organization After 8, an advocacy and education group founded in Benton County after the passing of Measure 8 in 1988. She recalls her work as treasurer for After 8 and the organization’s goals and accomplishments, as well as her work as treasurer and fundraising coordinator for the Political Action Committees formed to fight each of the Oregon Citizen Alliance’s anti-gay ballot measures. In doing so, she also gives an overview of ballot measures 8 and 9 and how they affected her life, as well as discussing the general atmosphere of OSU and the surrounding community during that time. Interviewer: Stefani Evers. Interview video available online.
(1:29:00) The interview begins with Neustadt talking about her childhood and describing what family life was like for her. She remembers playing in the streets with local neighborhood children and staying out as late as possible—until their mothers insisted they come in. She discusses the rather authoritative parenting style of her father, which was balanced by her mother’s nurturing approach. Neustadt describes the difficulties of middle school and high school, recalling the awkwardness she experienced during that time in her life. Neustadt proceeds to discuss her life after graduation. She moved to Iowa to attend a small liberal arts college, and although she enjoyed being young and single, Neustadt did not excel academically because she lacked focus. Aware of how much debt she was accruing, she decided to put her studies on hold until she was certain of her career path. Neustadt explains that she eventually decided to pursue an advanced degree in Clinical Psychology and moved to Oregon to do so. She speaks quite fondly of her time in Eugene. The interview then shifts to Neustadt’s discussion of her sexuality, and the expansive support of the women’s community in Eugene during her college years. Shortly after obtaining her master’s degree she moved from Eugene to Corvallis and co-founded an LGBTQ advocacy group called After 8. She describes the volatile environment in Corvallis that prompted her to establish such a group. For most of the interview, Neustadt details the specific activities After 8 was involved in. Many of the stories are difficult, while others have a humorous tone. Neustadt recalls the times when the group received death threats, but also details positive events experienced by the LGBTQ community since that time, including the group’s annual Harvey Milk Dinners, which took place from 1989 – 1999. The interview concludes with Neustadt’s reflection on the progress made and the work still to be done in regards to equality for the LGBTQ community. Neustadt ends by discussing how grateful she is for the support of other human and civil rights groups, who helped After 8 accomplish the goals they set out to accomplish. Interviewer: Esther Matthews. Interview video available online.
(0:21:59) In the interview, Reynolds briefly describes her upbringing. She then proceeds to outline her career in law and how she has contributed to resolving legal marriage issues and asset distribution challenges for both in-state and out-of-state same sex marriages. In addition, Reynolds describes her involvement in assisting transgender clients who must navigate legal changes to their documentation. She explains that in Oregon, transgender individuals who wish to change their name or sex on legal documents are required to undergo surgery, which can present numerous challenges. Following this, Lorena describes the challenges her family faced when her brother Tristan came out as transgender. In trying to find his true identity, Tristan, who is nine years younger than Reynolds, had to come out multiple times, first as a lesbian, and then later as trans. This process put a strain on Tristan and his familial relationships. Lorena explains that when Tristan came out, there was no framework for transgender folks, so it was hard for both Tristan and the family to process and adapt to the change. Lorena’s brother created a video called “It Gets Better” with the help of his family, where each member of the family agreed to be interviewed on their experience with Tristan’s transition. Interviewers: Francesca Lee and Trinh Duonier. Interview video available online.
(0:43:39) The interview begins with Gelser discussing her upbringing and family life, traveling frequently between Las Vegas, where she was born, and her parent’s home state of Indiana, then moving to Oregon when she was a sophomore in high school. Gelser talks about applying to Earlham College in Indiana in 1990, and accepting due to their progressive environment and inclusive programming. She explains that Earlham’s values aligned with her own, having worked with friends in the LGBTQ+ community in a Teens for the Prevention of AIDS group. She notes the misunderstanding of AIDS at the time and how it contributed to her interest in LGBTQ+ issues. She mentions LGBTQ+ issues weren’t discussed at home and weren’t tolerated at schools in the late 80s, and notes the contrast between her own and her children’s experiences with LGBTQ+ issues in school. Gelser’s interest in politics grew in her interactions with the community, through non-hierarchical methods she learned at Earlham, and her experiences advocating for a son with special needs. This eventually led her to join the Corvallis school board in 2001 and later to become involved in Oregon legislature from 2005 onwards. Before participating in Oregon politics, Gelser attended OSU from 1996 to 1998, pursuing a master’s degree in Interdisciplinary Studies, with a focus in History and Women’s Studies. She explains that she focused on Interdisciplinary Studies in hopes of teaching high school students, but eventually expanded out of teaching into politics because she began to note important patterns in history and their correlation to present issues. In her political experience in the Oregon House of Representatives, Gelser talks about legislation that she helped pass, such as improvements to the accessibility of birth control, better structures for supporting domestic partnerships, making public accommodations for same-sex couples, and Karly’s Law on child abuse. In addition to these priorities, Gelser stayed true to her roots in education, and headed a committee on Oregon education. During her time in the Oregon Senate, Gelser talks about passing legislation on LGBTQ+ issues, including Senate Bill 946, a bill on veteran’s benefits for those discharged through Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, a bill on preferred gender and name identification for students, and a bill concerning bullying in schools related to LGBTQ+ students. As for future pieces of LGBTQ+ legislation, Gelser mentions legislation on marriage statutes, clarification of language for couples in previous legislation, changes to identification for same sex couples, and talks about her experience with debating on the Senate floor over legislation about solemnizing marriages outside of churches. The interview concludes with Gelser talking about the untapped history of LGBTQ+ issues. Interviewers: Brett Bishop and Brittney Nicole Aman. Interview video available online.
(0:25:31) In the interview, Mary Renneke begins by discussing her childhood with her sister and twin brother. Born in St. Paul, Minnesota in 1956, Mary was introduced to sports at a very early age, inspiring her passion for athletics. At age ten, Renneke began playing softball on a women’s team, and as she grew older she discovered that the sport was often a safe place for lesbians. Renneke jokingly claims that in the 70s, at least 80% of women’s softball players were lesbians. She notes that because her sister was also involved in softball, she suspected early on that Renneke might identify as lesbian. However, Renneke remarked that because there was no social media at that time, being a lesbian was something she knew little about, and did not discuss with her family until she turned 30. Because she enjoyed the community that women’s softball had to offer, Renneke continued to play softball into her 40s. However, she says she decided not to pursue a career in softball, either as a player or a coach, because there simply weren’t enough opportunities for women in sport in the 70s and 80s. Renneke briefly discusses Title IX, and the improvements it has made for women athletes. When Renneke was in high school and college, women’s teams were only just being introduced, and the teams she played for outside of college were self-funded. Although her tuition for community college in the 70s was a mere one-hundred dollars per year, she spent upwards of two-thousand dollars a season to play softball. Renneke describes her life after leaving college, explaining that work was merely a means to an end, allowing her to support herself while continuing to play sports. During this time, one of Renneke’s friends was a student at Oregon State University, and convinced her to come to OSU to play softball. Although Renneke agreed, receiving a partial scholarship from OSU at the age of 24, she did not complete her degree at the university and instead moved back to San Jose to work as a city bus driver. After ten to twelve years of this work, Renneke says she missed Oregon, so she returned to Corvallis and opened a coffee shop with a friend. At the age of 57, Renneke completed a bachelor’s degree through OSU’s online education program. Following this, she returned once again to California to become a job trainer for city bus drivers, but was laid off from this position during the recession. Renneke now lives in Albany and works at Natural Grocers in Corvallis. Interviewers: Suheng Chen and Hangyi Zhang. Interview video available online.
(0:56:01) Born in Albuquerque, New Mexico in 1947, Dr. Martha Cone, Ph.D. begins her interview by speaking on her early life. Her father was an air traffic controller, a position that required the family to relocate frequently while Dr. Cone was growing up. She attended high school in San Antonio, Texas from 1961-1965; Dr. Cone describes this time in her life as devoid of discussion on LGBTQ issues, explaining many from this community were still in the closet, including herself. After graduation, Cone matriculated at the University of Texas at Austin, where she studied microbiology and ultimately earned her doctorate degree. Dr. Cone explains how she was married from the age of 19 until she came out at 27, when she left her marriage and moved to a forested 1900s utopian commune in Delaware. Following this, Dr. Cone moved to California with friends from Philadelphia, where she met some women who owned a big pink bus, “tricked out” with beds and a kitchen, and joined them on their journey to Oregon. Dr. Cone details how this experience brought her to a women’s commune near Estacada. Everything was done by consensus among the women, including farm work and class instruction. Dr. Cone lived at the commune for about a year and a half before coming to Corvallis in search of a job, and eventually accepted a position in the Oregon State University (OSU) Microbiology Department. Dr. Cone describes how in her time at OSU, she was a part of the ‘book scandal’ in the OSU Women’s Center, wrote a letter to the editor of the Barometer on the subject, and was even involved in a picket march. While working for the College of Science, Dr. Cone was good friends with a gay man and by a mutual agreement, they conceived a child together. The man is still very much involved in their daughter’s life. Dr. Cone commented that when she first came to OSU, the gay communities were closeted and activism was just beginning to take place on campus. She became involved in activism for women’s college sports at the university, which often involved Title IX issues. Dr. Cone admits that her work experience at OSU was somewhat of a "locker room" environment because not many women worked in her department. In part because of this unsupportive environment, and the general discrimination against women prevalent in the science department, Dr. Cone says she decided not to try for tenure. She instead took up a post-doc position working in a lab for 10 years until the professor left, and Dr. Cone was unable to attain grants for the project on her own. After being diagnosed with breast cancer, and ultimately using all of her sick leave, Dr. Cone officially retired. In 2002, she took advantage of an opportunity to learn how to transcribe textbooks into Braille, an activity she actively participates in to this day. At the time of the interview, Dr. Cone shared that she planned to move to Portland to live in a floating home on the Columbia River with her partner. Interviewers: Eugenia Rott and Jared Ziegler. Interview video available online.
(0:36:21) Robin Frojen was born in Los Angeles in 1966. In the interview, Frojen begins by describing the difficulties she faced in her youth, not caring for traditional gender roles or expectations, which led to bullying throughout her early life. Frojen cites a notable incident that occurred in elementary school in which she did not receive any valentine cards from her peers. Frojen continued her education at a Catholic middle school and high school. Ironically, the nuns at Frojen’s institution were incredibly progressive when it came to their acceptance of diverse personalities and sexualities. Her high school has more recently become a visible beacon, having graduated their openly first transgender student. Frojen recognizes this is an incredible accomplishment, especially for a Catholic school. Frojen maintains a close relationship with the high school and its faculty members. Frojen remembers her childhood outside of school affectionately, speaking about her parents with admiration, and recognizing how hard her father worked to provide for her family. Frojen describes her mother as a strong and supportive force, particularly when Frojen came out to her family at 22. Frojen explains that the way in which she came out to her family was not ideal. Afraid her sexuality would ruin her relationship with her family, Frojen agreed to have a good friend break the news to her mother over lunch. Frojen admits that her mother suspected she was a lesbian, so was not shocked by Frojen’s coming out. Her mother had refrained from asking her daughter outright, because she valued integrity and honesty and did not want to put Frojen in a position that would require her to lie. After Frojen came out, her mother proceeded to call all of their immediate family members to break the news and affirm her love and support for Frojen. After moving around the country, from coast to coast, Frojen eventually settled down in Corvallis, Oregon in 1997. In Corvallis, she rediscovered her love for food and made the courageous decision to pursue a degree in chemistry and food science. Frojen is now the manager of the Oregon State Creamery. Corvallis’s welcoming community has made it an amazing city to reside in for Frojen and her family. It has allowed her to become active in different communities throughout Corvallis. She has helped with the LGTBQ+ community by attending diversity panels held by Kathy Grieves. Frojen also helps with NAMI, a program that helps families deal with mental illness. Robin always expresses that she is available for anyone who needs help and lives by the motto, “Work hard at being yourself, not someone else.” Interviewers: Madeleine Selfors and Kevin More. Interview video available online.
(1:27:26) As part of Trans Awareness Week 2016 on OSU’s campus, SOL and the Pride Center hosted an event entitled “Occupying Margins: A Panel Discussion on Gender” in which three OSU students—Tara Crockett, Malik Ensley, and Vickie Zeller— with moderator Samantha Wood, spoke about their personal experiences with gender, as well larger impressions of the topic. The description of the panel was as follows: “This panel aims to spotlight the lived experiences of non-binary/genderqueer/gender non-conforming folx who live beyond the gender binary.” During the event, the panelists answered pre-decided questions as well as queries from the audience. A wide array of issues were addressed, including South Asian poetry duo Dark Matter and their argument that if you are a person of color, queer, differently abled, neuro-diverse, low-income, etc. you already do not fit the definition of “man” or “woman.” The three describe their vision for working towards a society that cherishes these trans and non-binary genders and relationships, rather than just “accepting” non-binary people. In addition, the group explores the ways in which the definition of gender can be expanded and improved upon by acknowledging histories and legacies of slavery and colonization. All of the panelists stress the need for difficult conversations, and interventions that make others question their harmful assumptions. They explain that this includes talking to strangers, standing up for your friends, and fostering dialogue with family members. Filmed panel and a more detailed summary available online.
The Student Incidental Fees Committee Records document budget requests, reviews, and recommendations for funding provided to Oregon State University units and student-led organizations from student incidental fees. The records include general information and guidelines for the student fee funding process, minutes and agendas for committee meetings, draft budgets, and voting records.
The bulk of the records consist of materials supporting annual funding requests from OSU units including Intercollegiate Athletics, Memorial Union, Recreational Sports, Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychological Services, Student Involvement, and the Associated Students of OSU. Funding requests to support programs and activities pertaining to diversity, recycling, sustainability, childcare (Our Little Village), music, veterans, and athletic facilities (such as Raising Reser) are represented in the collection. Records pertaining to funding for the Corvallis Transit System, the Human Services Resource Center, and Intercultural Student Services are also included.
The collection also includes Fee Books for 1993-1994 through 1996-1997 and limited information about allocation of the technology resource fee. Of special note is a history of auxiliary operations and student fee funding at Oregon State University that was prepared in about 2000. A 2009 report from the Special Committee for Student Fee Strategic Planning is also available in the collection.
The G. Burton Wood Papers document Wood's professional work as an agricultural economist and administrator. The collection consists of trip and meeting files, speeches, and reference materials The Papers reflect Wood’s representation of Oregon State University at special events, in meetings of Oregon commodity groups, and in regional associations and advisory groups. The bulk of the records are for Oregon, the Pacific Northwest, and the western United States. The collection also reflects Wood’s particular interests within agricultural economics – farm management, marketing, cooperative associations, the role of land grant colleges and universities, and the administration of agricultural research through Experiment Stations. Speeches, reports, and publications on agricultural forecasts and the future of agriculture broadly in Oregon and the Pacific Northwest are part of the collection. Also of note are materials pertaining to agriculture in Turkey assembled by Wood as part of a large Oregon State University contract with the United States Agency for International Development. Materials pertaining to mint oil, grape wine research, and the Winegrowers Council are part of the papers. Several photographs of groups of individuals (which may include Wood) are included as well.
Series 1 comprises the bulk of the collection and documents conferences, meetings, and events that Wood attended in his role as an agricultural economist and Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station. As Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station, Wood represented Oregon State University at special events throughout the state of Oregon, in meetings of Oregon commodity groups, and in regional agricultural associations and advisory groups. The bulk of the records are for 1966-1975. This series includes materials assembled by Wood pertaining to agriculture in Turkey as part of an Oregon State University contract with the US Agency for International Development (USAID) to advise on the organization and coordination of agricultural research and extension programs and the development and prospects for agriculture in Turkey - especially production of wheat and other cereal grains.
USAID (United States Agency for International Development)
1 of 3 folders
2 of 3 folders
3 of 3 folders
WSRAC (Western Social Research Advisory Committee)
WSRAC (Western Social Research Advisory Committee)
WSRAC (Western Social Research Advisory Committee)
WSRAC (Western Social Research Advisory Committee)
Series 2 consists of speeches and presentations given by Wood on a variety of topics at conferences and meetings; typed and reproduced speeches as well as handwritten outlines are included. Most of the speeches are from 1969-1970. Topics addressed include: markets for agricultural commodities, challenges of agricultural research especially in the context of Experiment Stations, the beef cattle industry in the Pacific Northwest, potato marketing and pricing, irrigation, the future of agriculture in Oregon and the Pacific Northwest; agricultural credit, and the commercialization of agriculture ("big agriculture").
Series 3 consists of publications, reports, and reference materials received and assembled by Wood. They include publications by governmental and non-governmental organizations, Experiment Station materials, and newspaper clippings. The materials represent a wide range of topics including economic and agricultural forecasts, farmers cooperatives, the role of land grant colleges and universities, and agricultural research administration especially through Experiment Stations. This series also includes a 1908 postcard to Mrs. E.P. Jackson, Wood’s mother-in-law, as well as several photographs taken in the 1960s-1970s of groups that may include Wood. Materials pertaining to a committee studying the feasibility of a proposed OSU golf course are included. A directory from 1970 demonstrates Wood's professional contacts.
Includes Deans of Agriculture, Experiment Station Directors, Other Departments, Branch Stations, Extension services, Oregon Agriculture Commodity and Farm Organization, Senate and House Committees, ESCOP (Experiment Station Committee on Organization and Policy),WSRAC (Western Social Research Advisory Committee), WAERC - ERC (Western Agricultural Economics Research Council), USDA, and Northwest Soil and Water Conservation
Includes a photograph of Roy Young with a field trip group (circa 1965) and 4 other photographs of unidentified groups (which may include Wood). Several of the photographs are by R. W. Henderson. One is a color print.
Postcard from E.P. Jackson to Mrs. E.P. Jackson, parents of Wood's wife Ramona Wood (nee Jackson)
The James A. Sewell Photograph Album consists of a photograph album assembled by James A. Sewell and is made up of photographs taken at Oregon Agricultural College in about 1902 to 1904. In addition to portrait and group shots of football team players, these photographs document a football game on the OAC campus, cadet formations on campus, the women’s basketball team, track and field events, and a student trip to the Oregon Coast. The album also includes photographs of the exterior and interior views of campus buildings, men’s and women’s physical education classes, and of the band.
Samuel Lewis Burnaugh center front; William Gustav Abraham, third row, far left; Albert Burton Bower, second row, second from left
Second athletic field
Second athletic field
Second athletic field
From left to right: William Gustav Abraham; John H. Gault; Sameul Lewis Burnaugh; Albert Burton Bower, Lyman Albert Bundy
Opposite Armory-Gym. Cauthorn Hall is in the background
Held in Armory-Gym


Mechanical Hall
Albert Burton Bower
Mechanical Hall


Samuel Lewis Burnaugh, center, front row; Albert Burton Bower, fifth from left, front row
Print partially hand-colored. The Arrows were an early basketball team. Hamon S. Bilyeu, Will Scott, back left to right. Carl "Rat" Rinehart, Claude Vivian "Skeeter" Swann, front left to right.
The Arrows were an early OAC basketball team. Will Scott, Hamon S. Bilyeu, Jack Bruce Patterson back, left to front; Carl "Rat" Rinehart, Claude Vivian "Skeeter" Swann, front, left to right
Students lined up in Armory-Gym
Students, lying on stomachs, in Armory-Gym
Students, sitting with hands on waists, in Armory-Gym
Harry E. Rooper, back, far left
Harry E. Rooper, back, far left
Harry E. Rooper, back, far left
Print is identical to 42
Standing
Sitting
Agricultural House in background
Marching with rifles
Band marching down Corvallis street
Sprinters at the start line
Print is identical to 52
Officials, other athletes, and spectators in the background
Runner crossing the finishing line; officials and spectators
Group of runners crossing the finishing line; officials and spectators
Print is identical to 59
Facing away, showing off muscles. Wrestlers(?)
Students in bathing costumes in surf
Students making daisy chains
Man showing muscles. Wrestler (?)
Company "C"
Company "B"
Company "D"
Gift presented to the college by the senior class of 1902
Drawing of white plumes with words "arrows", "champions", and "Corvallis"
Print is identical to 72
Company "A"
Print is identical to 77
Company "D"
Wrestlers (?)
Wearing bathing costumes, sitting on log in the surf.
The Petri publications include Mind Over Muscle (1924) and Music Fundamentals Correlated, volumes I-III (1927). Both pertain to piano technique. The programs include musical events sponsored by the Oregon State College Liberal Arts Programs Committee, the Corvallis OSU Music Association, the OSU Music Department, and other organizations. The notebooks include notes, directions, and instructions received by Perry in piano lessons, probably given by Lillian Petri.
The Harry C. Patton Collection of Oregon State College Memorabilia consists of items assembled by Patton and his daughter, Shirley Elizabeth Patton, and son-in-law, Jacob Wimer Bigham, Jr. The collection includes yearbooks, dance cards, pennants, patches, and other memorabilia. The 1915 and 1916 Orange and 1918 Beaver yearbooks are part of the collection and document Patton's student years at Oregon Agricultural College. An Oregon Agricultural College pennant from the 1910s is also included.
Dance cards, patches, a cap, and earmuffs acquired and assembled by Shirley and Jacob during their student years at Oregon State College in the late 1930s through early 1940s are included. A felt patch with the inscription Helonskis, Corvallis, Ore. and a profile of Marys Peak was created by the Helonskis Ski Club, which operated a ski tow and ski hut on Marys Peak. Oregon State (O) patches are also part of the collection.
A pennant commemorating the 1957 Rose Bowl football game has Rose Bowl game buttons and a 1961 homecoming button affixed to it. A 1971 brochure about Peavy Hall is also included.
The Gerald W. Williams Lantern Slides Collection consists of lantern slides assembled and acquired by Williams in the course of his work as a Forest Service sociologist and historian and due to his avocational interest in the history of forestry and the Pacific Northwest region. The slides depict forests and forest operations; landscapes and scenery; birds, wildlife, and plants; and salmon fishing. Many of the images are of Oregon landmarks, including the Columbia River Gorge, Crater Lake, and Mount Hood. Of particular note are a set of lantern slides advertising local businesses in the McKenzie River area. All of the images are undated; an approximate date range for the collection was assigned based on the time period when the creation and use of lantern slides was most prevalent.
Many of the slides are in color. Five of the items are damaged or in poor condition and have been segregated from the bulk of the collection. These items have been digitized and are available online.
The collection includes lantern slides by many photographers and producers including the U.S. Forest Service, the Keystone View Company, Arthur M. Prentiss, Underwood and Underwood, Weister Co., Herman T. Bohlman, and the Kansas City Slide Company.
Series 1 consists of 29 lantern slides depicting trees, forests, logging, and milling operations.
Slide number: 14039
Photographer: Bickmore. Slide number: 5524
Slide number: 59461
Photographer: Pinchot. Slide number: 936
Photographer: Block. Slide number: 40093
Slide number: 831
Photographer: Lindsey. Slide number: 12336
Photographer: Foley. Slide number: 20310
Slide number: 1386
Photographer: Gaskill. Slide number: 4832
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Slide number: 95451
Slide number: 40019
Photographer: Kempton. Slide number: 35798
Photographer: Plummer. Slide number: 27594
Source: Keystone View Company. Slide number: 29234
Photographer: Pinchot. Slide number: 33794
Source: Keystone View Company. Slide number: 22198
Photographer: Cleadow. Slide number: 8353
Photographer: Zon. Slide number: 28975
Photographer: Foley. Slide number: 20312
Slide number: 1319
Photographer: Fisher. Slide number: 4187
Source: U.S. Forest Service
Location: Denton, Montana. Slide number: 291045. Notes: Slide is cracked. Image is available online.
Slide number: 2026. Note: Slide is cracked. Image is available online.
Location: Northern California
Slide number: 31. Note: Slide is cracked. Image is available online.
Series 2 consists of 56 lantern slides depicting landscapes and scenery. Many of the images are of Oregon landmarks including the Columbia River Gorge, Mount Hood, and Crater Lake.
Perhaps at Crater Lake.
Location: Portland, Oregon
Location: Portland, Oregon
Photographer: Arthur M. Prentiss
Slide number: 32973
Location: Central Oregon
Location: Crater Lake
Location: Oceanside, Oregon
Slide number: 12
Slide number: 20
Slide number: 8
Slide number: 13
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Slide number: 910828.
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Location: Kingman, Arizona. Slide number: 392562.
Source: School of Forestry, Moscow, Idaho. Slide number: 158146
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood, N.Y. Location: Arizona. Slide number: 6148.
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood. Location: Rockbridge, Co. Slide number: 5656.
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood. Location: SE to Mt. Antero, Colorado. Slide number: 10631.
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Location: Angeles National Forest. Slide number: 33376A.
Publisher: Riley Optical Inst. Co. Inc. Location: British Columbia, Canada. Slide number: 14647.
Slide number: 31
Slide number: 11
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood. Location: Columbia River, Oregon. Slide number: 6236.
Perhaps in the Columbia River Gorge. Note: Cracked slide. Image is available online.
Publisher: Putnam and Valentine Photo. Note: Cracked slide. Image is available online.
Series 3 consists of 45 lantern slides of birds, plants and wildlife. Several of the bird photographs were taken at Malheur or Klamath. Also of note are several images made by Herman T. Bohlman. This series also includes portrait photographs of naturalists and group photographs of individuals on nature trips.
Publisher: Weister Co.Slide Number: 54.
Slide number: 30
Slide number: 53
Slide number: 78
Slide number: 52
Slide number: 80
Photographer: H.T. Bohlman
Photographer; H.T. Bohlman. Slide number: 74.
Slide number: 34
Slide number: 60
Slide number: 33
Slide number: 60
Slide number: 93
Slide number: 48
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Location: Northwestern Admiralty Island, Alaska. Slide number: 393363.
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Slide number: 26312A.
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Location: Essex, Iowa. Slide number: X225.
Source: U.S. Forest Service. Slide number: X408.
Photographer: Sowell-Simon Studio
Photographer: Sowell-Simon Studio
Series 4 consists of advertisements published by the Kansas City Slide Co. These were stock slides that had been customized for local businesses and were likely used during intermissions at movie theaters. The series includes 26 lantern slides.
Location: McKenzie Bridge
Location: McKenzie
Location: Leaburg, Oregon
Location: Blue River, Oregon
Location: Leaburg, Oregon
Location: Vida, Oregon
Location: McKenzie Bridge, Oregon
Location: Vida, Oregon
Location: Vida, Oregon
Location: Blue River, Oregon
Location: Vida, Oregon
Location: Vida, Oregon
Location: Finn Rock, Oregon
Series 5 consists of 15 lantern slides depicting landmark federal buildings in Washington, D.C.; war-time advertisements; and German ships.
Source: Education Museum
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood. Location: Washington D.C. Slide number: 140-11146.
Publisher: Keystone View Co. Factories. Location: Washington D.C. Slide number: 95.
Location: Washington D.C. Slide number: 89.
Publisher: Keystone View Co. Factories. Location: Washington D.C.
Publisher: Novelty Slide Co.
Publisher: Keystone View Co. Factories. Slide number: 344
Publisher: Keystone View Co. Factories. Slide number: 342.
Series 6 consists of 13 lantern slides of various topics that may have been used for teaching or entertainment. Of special note is an image of salmon fishing on Puget Sound.
Location: Detroit, Oregon
Source: U.S. Forest Service. L ocation: New Market, Virginia, on Highway U.S. No. 11. Slide number: 338756.
Publisher: Quality Slide Co. Slide number: 2.
Publisher: Quality Slide Co. Slide number: 3.
Artist: Scott and Van Atlena. Slide number: 3.
Artist: Scott and Van Atlena
Publisher: Underwood & Underwood. Location: Puget Sound. Slide number: 6229.
Source: Educational Museum. Slide number: 1080.
The Hugh C. Currin Photograph Collection consists of 12 images of the Oregon Agricultural College campus, military cadets, and athletic teams assembled by Currin, primarily during his student years in the early 1900s. All of the images are mounted prints and all are individually numbered (P168:01 - P168:12).
The collection includes photographs of several campus buildings: Benton, Cauthorn (now known as Fairbanks), Agriculture (now Education), Alpha, and Mechanical (now Kearney) Halls. Two images of military cadet reviews are part of the collection; both images include the cadet band. One of these images shows the residential area adjacent to lower campus. Another image depicts a group of young men (probably cadets) with rifles, perhaps at an encampment.
Several of the images in the collection depict athletic teams and events. These include the 1906 football team, a football practice, and a football game with the University of Washington. A group photograph of the women's basketball team and one of the 1904 men's basketball team are also included.
Three of the photos were made by W.G. Emery and one by Chester Coffey.
The 4-H Photograph Collection provides extensive visual documentation of Oregon 4-H programs, projects, and participants from the founding in the 1910s through the 1980s. The collection consists of images of the 4-H Summer School on the Oregon State campus in Corvallis, including many group portaits of the participants by county; 4-H activities at the Oregon State Fair and the Pacific International Livestock Exposition; Oregon delegates to national 4-H congresses; a variety of 4-H projects including gardens, livestock and poultry, forestry, cooking and canning, sewing and needlework, and recreational activities; and participants in the International Farm Youth Exchange Program (IFYE) and the 4-H Japanese Exchange Program. The collection includes images of Extension Service staff for 4-H including Helen Cowgill, L.J. Allen, and H.C. Seymour. The collection includes several slide programs developed in the 1960s through 1980s highlighting 4-H programs and as instruction for 4-H projects. Two photograph albums include images of 4-H activities at the 1951 and 1957 Oregon State Fairs. Many of the photographs in the collection have detailed descriptions.
The collection includes a variety of formats; the bulk of the collection is black and and white prints. It also includes film negatives, nitrate negatives, slides, color prints, and photograph albums.
The Wesley Ross Memoir of World War II consists of a compilation of personal remembrances and research conducted by Ross on the activities of the 146th Engineer Combat Battalion (ECB) during World War II. 146 Engineer Combat Battalion -- Essayons: A Journey details Ross' wartime experiences as well as his activities after the war and includes reproductions of archival materials (documents, photographs, and maps) and written accounts by other members of the 146th ECB and affiliated units. A list of the 146th ECB members and their lives after the war is included. In a chapter devoted to pre-war activities, Ross describes his student years at Oregon State College including stories of hijinks among his fellow military cadets and samples of his school expenses. Essayons (French for "Let us try.") is the motto of U.S. Army Engineers.
The Women's Athletics Photograph Collection consists of images of teams, events, and individual athletes participating in a variety of sports and recreational activities at Oregon State, primarily during the 1920s and 1930s. The collection includes images of archery, badminton, baseball, basketball, dance, fencing, field hockey, gymnastics, horseback riding, softball, swimming, tennis, track, volleyball, and waterskiing. Of special note are images of the first women's basketball team in 1898-1899. The collection also includes several images of dance performances and pageants.
All of the images are photographic prints and have been assigned individual numbers. Several images in the collection are available online. Many of the photographs were published in the Beaver yearbook.
Series I consists of photographs of individual athletes and teams as well as athletic events and recreational activities. The names of identified individuals are included in the description; images that were published in the Beaver yearbook are indicated as such.
Basketball player.
Standing L-R: Inez Fuller, Coach Will Beach, Bessie Smith, Lona [Lana?] Smith. Sitting L-R: Leta Owensby, Fanny Getty
L-R: Bessie G. Smith, Letita Ownsbey, Elizabeth Hoover, Coach Will Beach, Minnie Smith, Inez Fuller (by banner in-front). Published in the June 1900 Souvenir Edition of the Barometer, which is available online.
Kneeling: Alice Wicklund, Eva Stoats (Mrs. FC Ritner), Edith Prince, Alice Jones, Maud Roberts (Mrs. HC Brodie), Margaret May Martin, Verna Kerker, Mary Elgin. Sitting: Ruth Lilly (Mrs. EH Pratt), Winnie Logan (Mrs. ER Woods), Maggie Maud Hays, Reta Price, Edna Buster (Mrs. JS Wheeler), Myrtle Harrington, Elizabeth "Bess" Yates, Mabel Stovall, Louise Gilbert. In Front: Reva Buell, Hazel Raber (Mrs. JC Ewing),Luella "Mary" VanCleve (Mrs. FL Stephens). Standing: Bess Danneman, Mary Danneman, Loene Montgomery, Laura Persinger, Alice Edwards, Lucile Roberts, Pearl Persinger, Candice Wicklund, Essie Adams, Jessie Wilson, Margaret McCormick, Gretta Harringtion, Una Stewart (Mrs. JW Carlson), Frances Gellatly, Madeline Nichols.
Pearl Horning, Alma Taylor, Mabel Harding, Eleanor Tonsing, Ruth Rydell, Martha Jane Pocklington, Audra Liska, Elda Aasen, Florence Kaufman.
Published in the 1921 Beaver yearbook, page 310.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 216.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 216.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 214.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 215.
Published in the 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 149.
Published in the 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 147.
Published in the 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 148.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 215.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 215.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 216.
Published in the 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 218.
Published in the 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 146.
Published in the 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 146.
Includes Frances Reid, Captain, Commerce; Helen Wirkkala, Commerce; Marie Baumback, Home Economics; June Hudson, Commerce; Gennette Miner, Home Economics; and Lan Chen Kung, Home Economics. Published in 1929 Beaver yearbook, page 245.
Includes Audrey Louise Johnson.
Marjorie English and Virginia Moses.
Pat Kelley and Phyllis Horseman.
Published in 1940 Beaver yearbook, page 148.
Published in 1938 Beaver yearbook, page 215.
Published in the 1921 Beaver yearbook, page 305.
Published in the 1923 Beaver yearbook, page 319.
Equestrian team (?).
The Student Academic Records document students enrolled at Oregon State University from the late 1880s through early 2000s. The records include official transcripts of courses, grades, and degrees completed; applications for admissions; high school and other college transcripts; and related documents assembled by the Registrar's Office for an individual student's record.
Current student academic records are maintained in electronic form by the Registrar's Office.
Series I documents students enrolled at Oregon Agricultural College from 1888 to 1901 in a Student Record Book for 1888-1901 and a List of Matriculates for 1888-1896.
The student recordbook includes entries for students who attended Oregon Agricultural College from 1888 to 1901. The book has this title on the spine, Class Standing and College Record, State Agricultural College of Oregon and consists of 3 sections for the fields of study -- Agricultural, Mechanical, and Household Economy. Entries within these sections are in chronological order by first enrollment. An alphabetical index of students names is at the beginning of the volume.
The List of Matriculates of The State Agricultural College of Oregon includes students who were enrolled at Oregon Agricultural College from September 1888 through September 1896. For each student, the list provides a student number; full name; age; home "post office", county, and state; the date of entrance; college history (degree program); remarks; and the parent's or guardian's name and address. The list indicates the year of enrollment for the student (first, second, etc.). For a few entries, the list indicates when a student completed their degree. This volume also includes summary information on the number of students by Oregon county.
Series II consists of 10 bound volumes of early student academic records for students enrolled in 1900-1915 as well as unbound documents for the same time period. These are for records numbers 000007 through 005080. Record numbers were assigned to a set of documents that were in alphabetical order, hense the documents are in both alphabetical and numerical order. Some documents with these record numbers are also available on microfilm in Series IV.
Series III consists of original student academic records for students enrolled from the early 1900s through early 1960s with record numbers 005081 through 106999. The records are arranged in rough chronological order as the numbers were assigned as when students enrolled for their first term at Oregon State. The name index to record numbers is available in Series V. These records include Oregon State transcripts, applications, high school and other college transcripts, military discharge documents, and foreign school documents. The Oregon State transcripts are also available on microfilm in Series IV. Beginning with record 076899, the documents have not been processed and are still housed in the original folders and record storage boxes. Legal-size and oversize documents have been separated and are listed at the end of this series. Note: Separation sheets for oversize materials that are filed with letter-size documents may direct a user to a superseded box number or location; current box numbers for oversize materials are listed at the end of this series.
Except for some earlier records also found in bound volumes, this series only includes microfilm of the official transcript. The microfilm reels in this series, through reel 299, are labeled with "SAR" preceding the reel number on the microfilm box.
Series V consists of Academic Record Locator Cards that serve as an name index for the student academic records. The cards are arranged alphabetically by last name and provide the student's name and the associated record number for their student academic record. The bulk of the series (reels 8-70) consists of cards maintained by the Registrar's Office as of 1976 that were microfilmed at that time. Alphabetical additions to the card file were filmed in 1977 (reels 71-72); 1978 (reels 73-74); and 1979 (reels 75-76).
The Ralph I Gifford Motion Picture Films consist of The New Oregon Trail and unedited motion film clips of a variety of subjects.

The New Oregon Trail is a tourism promotion film presented by the Oregon State Highway Department. The production was supervised and edited by Harold Bradley Say, photographed by Ralph I. Gifford, and distributed by Castle Films. The 16 mm Kodachrome color film, with soundtrack, is approximately 22 minutes long (800 feet). A digital duplication master and DVD use copy are available. The film is also available for viewing online.

The New Oregon Trail consists of footage of scenic and recreational attractions in Oregon. It includes: Wallowa Lake and the Wallowa Mountains; Celilo Falls, Multnomah Falls, the Columbia River Highway, Columbia River Gorge, and Bonneville Dam; Portland street scenes, waterfront, and Rose Festival activities; the Oregon Coast, Astoria Regatta, Seaside, sea lions, and lighthouses; the Oregon Caves and Crater Lake; the Rogue, Umpqua, McKenzie, and Metolius Rivers and numerous mountain lakes; the Crooked River Gorge and Fossil Beds in central Oregon; a geyser near Lakeview; birds at Malheur Lake; guests at dude ranches; and skiing in the Blue Mountains and on Mount Hood. Scenes of Astoria, Bend, and Salem are also included. The film strongly promotes sport and commercial fishing on the Oregon Coast and in Oregon rivers, streams, and lakes. Of special note are scenes of Native Americans fishing at Celilo Falls; state parks throughout Oregon; highways and bridges, especially on the Oregon Coast; Mount Hood and Timberline Lodge; and the Pendleton Round-Up. Much of the footage in this film is similar to still photographs taken by Ralph I. Gifford.
The unedited film clips were filmed in about 1925-1935 and consist of 7 reels (3200 feet total length) of original 35 mm nitrate motion picture film negatives. The clips total about 35 minutes running time. A digital duplication master and DVD use copy of the clips are available.
The clips depict a variety of subjects. Many pertain to alpine search and rescue and may have been shot to produce a training film. These clips include footage of mountaineers on Mount Hood; staged rescue of an injured climber; use of a portable radio to call for assistance; and evacuation of the injured man by car and airplane. One of the rescuers is wearing a "Crag Rats Hood River" patch. The Crag Rats were founded in 1926 and are the oldest mountain search and rescue organization in the United States.
This unedited footage also includes scenes of Benjamin A. Gifford at his home at Salmon Creek, Washington; two young women with a motorized toy boat in a stream; a home, pond, and natural spring or water feature; a family at the beach; two boys (with their mother?) going to school; an airplane taking off and landing at the beach and in a field; footage of Mt. Hood shot during an airplane flight; and a radio operator. There is also footage of a traffic survey station and motor truck scale, perhaps in Portland, that includes weighing, measurement, and inspection of a Carstens truck.
The Walter H. Russell Papers consist of materials collected by Oregon Agricultural College alumnus Russell that document his student experience as well as his participation in alumni reunion gatherings. Items reflecting Russell's campus years are comprised of his undergraduate diploma, a commencement program, grade reports, a certificate of membership in the Eta Kappa Nu Honorary Society, and a photograph of the homecoming bonfire. Russell's involvement in class reunion activities are documented in photographs and an event brochure.
The Recreational Sports Department Records document recreational sports and fitness programs offered at Oregon State University, primarily for students. The records consists of correspondence and subject files; annual reports, handbooks, and manuals; committee records; sports club files and budget requests; buildings and facilities records; and photographs, videotapes, and sound recordings. The materials also include a guestbook, a photograph album and scrapbook, newspaper clippings, and informational materials.
The committee records document the governing boards for recreational sports (Board of Physical Education; Board of Physical Recreation; and Board of Recreational Sports) from the early 1970s through the 1990s; the Outdoor Advisory Committee; and the Sports Club Committee. Records of the University Task Force on Recreation Facilities and Programs in 1971-1972 are also included.
Sports club files comprise a substantial component of the collection and provide information on both club sports for men and women. The following sports are represented: badminton, bowling, crew, cricket, cross country and track, cycling, dodgeball, equestrian, fencing, gymnastics, judo, kendo, lacrosse, pistol, polo, racquetball, resistance training, rifle, rodeo, roller hockey, rugby, sailing, karate, skiing anbd snowboarding, soccer, squash, table tennis tennis, triathlon, ultimate disc, volleyball, and water polo.
The buildings and facilities records document the construction of Stevens Natatorium, the Indoor Climbing Center and additions to Dixon Recreation Center. Materials pertaining to outdoor recreation programs, facility use surveys, and special programs such as camps and training workshops are included in the records.
The collection includes about 9000 images (2500 prints, 2000 negatives, and 4500 color slides). The photographs depict a variety of indoor activities at the Dixon Recreation Center, sports clubs teams and events, and outdoor trips organized by the Outdoor Recreation Program. Images of events and workshops are included as well as a photograph album documenting the construction of and grand opening ceremony for the Stevens Natatorium. Digital photographs (on 13 compact discs) documenting Footsteps Program (new student orientation) outings in 2005-2006 are part of the collection. The videotapes consist of 12 VHS videotapes and 2 digital video cassettes. They include footage of the opening of the Indoor Climbing Center, Footsteps program trips, lectures on legal liabilities, and an outing on the McKenzie River. The sound recordings pertain to the Indoor Climbing Center and the Outdoor Recreation Program.
The Urban League of Portland Records consist of records generated by the League and its board, officers, staff, and affiliated organizations. The records document the administration of the organization and reflect the League's outreach to the community through various programs and activities, fund-raising, interaction with the National Urban League, and African American life in Portland. The subject files constitute the bulk of these materials and include information regarding housing, history of the League, minorities in business, urban renewal programs, various events and programs, education, and different League centers and services. The reports include annual and presidential reports as well as reports on race relations in Portland, African American children in Portland, and Northeast Portland neighborhood revitalization. The publications include League newsletters, brochures, and reports on various topics from the National Urban League office and branches in other cities. The records include constitutions and bylaws, committee information, correspondence, financial statements, surveys, event materials and press releases, meeting minutes, newspaper clippings, photograph albums, photographs, posters, scrapbooks, sound recordings, videotapes, award plaques, and a building plaque.
The photographs include prints, negatives, slides, and digital photographs and are only minimally arranged and described. The images, which date from the 1940s to 2005, depict League meetings, League representatives meeting with Oregon politicians, community events, League directors and board members, and League staff at National Urban League conferences. The images also document League outreach events such as job fairs, activities at the Multicultural Senior Center, programs at Okley Green Middle School, and fields trips for students to Willamette University and other locations. Many of the photographs are arranged chronologically.
The videotapes and sound recordings primarily document League events such as conference presentations, annual dinners, workshops, and award ceremonies in the 1990s, with a few recordings made in the 1980s. The sound recordings also include public service announcements and broadcasts of radio programs.
Subgroup 1 consists of records assembled by the Urban League of Portland and created by the Urban League of Portland, the National Urban League, affiliates thereof, and community organizations. These materials include newspaper clippings, correspondence, and reports and publications. A few photographs are also dispersed throughout. The majority of these files reflect the organization's actions and missions both internally and externally, leadership, programs, projects, centers, issues, and its interaction with the community. The bulk of the materials are from the 1940s through early 2000s. Meeting minutes, newsletters, reports, constitutions, and memos are available online.
Series 1 consists of information pertaining to the Urban League of Portland's Board of Directors. Materials include correspondence, membership lists, member evaluations, guideline packets, and official statements. Both board members and staff are represented in this series. While several specific staff members are highlighted, there is also information pertaining to staff members in general and evaluations thereof. The Administration records also consist of organizational charts, handbooks, constitutions, and resolutions. The materials in this series were produced both by the Urban League of Portland and the National Urban League. The Urban League of Portland also created a handbook that provides information on the CEO, the organization's structure, and position descriptions for staff.
includes 27 photographs
Series 2 consists of the records of external and internal committees. The external committees are those outside the Urban League organization with which the Urban League of Portland participated, was a member, or collaborated. In some cases, the files for external committees consist solely of information that the Urban League gathered, such as for the House Un-American Activities Committee. The internal committees were established by the Urban League of Portland or the National Urban League. The internal committee records document the Equal Opportunities Day Dinner, nominations, membership drives, and administration and functioning of the organization.
Series 3 consists of correspondence to and from the Urban League of Portland, the National Urban League, and several Urban League Affiliates. Topics include finances, the Equal Opportunities Day Dinner, resignations, meeting notices, and threats to the Urban League.
Series 4 consists of the Urban League of Portland's financial information, including grants, donor information, scholarship recipients, scholarship funds, account ledgers, financial statements, and audits.
Series 5 consists of meeting minutes from the Urban League of Portland's Board of Directors, who met monthly. The dates of these meeting minutes range from 1945 to 1949 and 1964 to 2003. Most of the materials in this series are the actual meeting minutes. However, meeting agendas are also included in these materials.
Series 6 consists of newspaper clippings collected by the Urban League of Portland. Most of these materials are arranged by decade. Some of the files are arranged by subject, as organized by Urban League staff. Topics include black cultural leaders, the organization itself, athletics, and issues of concern for communities of color.
Primarily clippings from the mid-1950s.
Original folder titles are used and enclosed in quotation marks.
Series 7 consists of publications in the forms of bulletins, newsletters, pamphlets, and proposals. The producers of these materials include the National Urban League, the Urban League of Portland, other Urban League branches, and community clubs and organizations. The reports include internal and external reports that reflect topics ranging from routine updates, the goals of the CEO, social and economic problems, and race relations.
Series 8 consists of information regarding the Urban League of Portland's centers and conferences held and attended by the National Urban League and the Portland branch. A substantial amount of material in this series pertains to the Urban League of Portland's events. Materials include fund-raising information, memos, flyers, reports, and newspaper clippings. Issues the Urban League community faces along with the topics of health and housing are reflected in brochures, informational packets, legislative materials, write-ups, correspondence, and newspaper clippings. Series 8 also reflects programs/projects of the League, historical information, and community and internal surveys. Some materials encompass external programs and organizations. The bulk of the records are for the 1940s thru 1990s.
9 photographs
Subgroup 2 consists of photographs and other visual materials, including scrapbooks, posters, and plaques documenting the programs and activities of the Urban League of Portland.
Series 1 consists of approximately 6,200 photographic prints, 900 film negatives, 358 digital photographs, 30 slides, and 30 collages. This series is only minimally arranged and described. Some of the photographs are arranged by date; others by topic; and others by format. Topics include personnel, meetings, activities and programs, and buildings. A selection of the photographs are available online in the Oregon Multicultural Archives within Oregon Digital.
Photographs by Nancy McKurlens (sp?).
Digital photographs of this program are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Includes 30 collages of photographic prints.
These digital photographs are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
These images of individuals attending the annual dinner include Harold C. Williams and the following individuals from Oregon State University: President Ed Ray, Phyllis Lee, and Teryl Ross.
These images document outreach activities at the Oakley Green Middle School. Photographic prints and film negatives of these images are available in box-folder 22.6.
Series 2 consists of 5 laminated posters and newspaper headlines, 50 "Gifts of the Elders" informational sheets, 4 unlamenated posters, and 4 stationary mockups. Some of the items are undated.
Series 3 consists of both bound and loose-leaf scrapbooks and photograph albums that include about 900 photographs. In addition to photographs, the scrapbooks include newsletters, collages of photographs, and memorabilia. Descriptions are included for some of the photographs. Urban League of Portland personnel, renovations, and events are reflected in these scrapbooks.
Series 4 consists of 4 items including 3 Certificates of Appreciation awarded to the Urban League of Portland by the African American Festival, One Church One Child, and the Bureau of the Census. This series also includes a plaque dedicated to the Urban Plaza by the Urban League of Portland.
Subgroup 3 consists of video and sound recordings produced by the National Urban League and the Urban League of Portland as well as outside producers that document the Urban League. Topics include conferences, events, promos, service centers, interviews, and annual dinners. Running times for video and audio recordings are provided with descriptions of the items.
Series 1 consists of 125 video recordings produced by the National Urban League, the Urban League of Portland, other Urban League Affiliates, and outside producers. Topics include conferences, special events such as the annual Urban League Dinner and the Equal Opportuniy Day Dinner, interviews, family and race relations, youth employment, and schools. The series includes duplicate DVDs, made in about 2010 by the University Archives. Portions of several of the video recordings are available online. Links are provided from the individual descriptions to the streaming video. The bulk of the videos are VHS format; U-matic, Betacam and DVDs are also included.
VHS, Advertisement for Kellog's cereal with the National Urban League's summer baseball footage. (0:01:00)
VHS, Discusses the reasons for changing the mission statement to "Our Children = Our Future." (0:14:00)
VHS, Over 2,000 youth across America are inducted into the Thurgood Marshall Achievers Society, Metropolitan Baptist Church, Washington, DC. (0:28:00)
VHS, Interview of newly elected NUL President, John E Jacob, by Coy Eklund. December 17, 1981 (0:30:30)
VHS, Oseola McCarty gives her own savings to help young Urban League students. November 14, 1995 (0:10:00)
VHS, National Urban League President speaks. January 20, 1994 (1:03:00)
VHS, Footage taken at workshops and other events at a National Urban League Youth Conference, meant to provide youth with exposure to various cultures. (0:17:00)
VHS, Highlights from the 1991 National Urban League Conference on Making a Difference in the 1990's. (2:00:00)
U-matic, Annual Conference, Washington, D.C.
VHS, Keynote Speech from the 1993 Annual Conference, Washington, D.C. August, 1993 (0:25:00)
VHS, Footage from the 1993 National Urban League Conference. August, 1993 (0:30:00)
VHS, "Making the Transition," Civil rights challenges are discussed in the keynote speeches, Benjamin F. Chavis, Jr. August, 4, 1993 (0:50:00)
VHS, Keynote Speaker, Hugh B. Price. August 11, 1996 (0:53:00)
VHS, Introductions, Hugh B. Price, 6:00pm. August 11, 1996 (2:00:00)
VHS, Keynote Speaker Kweisi Mfume, "Political Action Now for the 21st Century Results." August 14, 1996 (0:39:00)
VHS, Reverend Kirbyjohn Caldwell, Family Session, relaxed. July 29, 2001 (2:40:00)
U-matic, February, 1995
U-matic, February, 1995
VHS, Jaki Walker remodels older homes for those with very low income; President of Linfield College increases minorities' communities and students' freedom of speech. February, 1995 (0:07:21)
VHS, (0:10:50)
VHS, News profiles. (0:26:24)
VHS, Urban League of Portland, Sheds light on the positive achievements blacks have made. March 18, 1998 (0:15:46)
VHS, Overview of the Toyota Training Center. (0:12:57)
VHS, AAMCP talks about how African American males are portrayed in the media. (0:20:10)
VHS (0:23:46). Documentary created by ten local eighth graders about African American history in Portland. Danica Fierman ws project organizer for the Youth Black History Committee. Kim Moreland, Portland History Specialist, was narrator. Includes interview with community members Laura Jenkins and Susie Stokes.
VHS, A bingo game with the Blazers and Seniors at the Urban League of Portland's Senior Center. October, 1997 (1:16:47)
VHS, Adult graduation ceremony, raw footage. (1:45:35)
VHS, An informational video about mushroom pickers and how the US Forest Service attempts to help them. (0:10:14)
VHS, Nike teaches students business skills and how to be positive and affective workers. (0:05:56)
Betacam, PSA. November 2, 1993 (0:01:00)
VHS, KOIN-TV covers Career Connections event at the Urban League of Portland. (0:01:00)
U-matic, African American Male Connection Program. (0:20:00)
VHS, Cityscope talks about the Urban League of Portland's Rainbow Center. (0:08:22)
VHS, Workshops from day 1 of the Urban League Conference. August 26, 1994(0:56:48)
VHS, Workshops from day 2 of the Urban League of Portland Conference. August 27, 1994 (1:13:13)
VHS, Highlights from the Urban League of Portland Conference. August 26, 1994 (1:51:25)
VHS, PSA for the family support center. August 30, 1990 (0:00:30)
Reel to Reel, PSA, January 20, 1992 - February 11, 1992 (0:00:30)
VHS, PSA, January 20, 1992 - February 11, 1992 (0:00:30)
DVD (1 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of July 1992 Annual Dinner (item 43).
DVD (2 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of July 1992 Annual Dinner (item 43).
VHS; recorded and produced by Paragon Cable (2:00:00). Recording of Annual Dinner on July 9, 1992 with the theme of "Celebration of our Youth: Youth Revitalization in Our Community". Cleo Fields, Louisiana State Senator, was the keynote speaker. Also includes footage of James Francesconi, Master of Ceremonies; Kevin Fallen, Urban Leage Board of Directors member; Kyra Parker, Urban League scholarship winner; Tawan Paris, minister; Judith Ramaley; Charles Jordan; Bill Wyatt, Chair of Urban League Board of Directors; Darryl S. Tukufu, President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland; and Michelle Burch, former Southern University student who introduced Cleo Fields. DVD duplicates of this recording are available in the collection (items 41-42).
DVD (1 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of February 1993 Equal Opportunity Day Dinner (item 46).
DVD (2 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of February 1993 Equal Opportunity Day Dinner (item 46).
VHS; recorded and produced by Paragon Cable; February 1993 (1:42:00). E. Shelton Hill, longtime Director of the Urban League of Portland, from 1956 to 1973, died several days before the event. Recording includes footabe of Gina Wood, Master of Ceremonies; John Mack, President and CEO of the Los Angeles Urban League, as keynote speaker; Dr. Darryl S. Tukufu, President and CEO of the Urban League of Portland; Carry Clayton, NE Assistant Director, Youth Services Center (signs Black National Anthem); Rev. Robert J. Eaddy, Highland United Church of Christ; Barbara Roberts, Oregon Governor; Vera Katz, Portland Mayor; Daniel Moriarty, Portland Community College; and Robert Ridgely, President and CEO of Northwest Natural Gas Company. Portland Mayor Vera Katz read proclamations declaring February 19, 1993 as Shelly Hill Day and February 25, 1993 as Portland Equal Opportunity Day. DVD duplicates of this recording are available in the collection (items 44-45).
VHS, News Coverage of awards. (0:11:00)
U-matic, Edna Robertson, Fred Stickel, Ed Jenson.
U-matic, February 20, 1996 (0:07:00)
VHS; speech footage; February 22, 1996 (1:50:00). The theme was "Building Communities through Education, Employment, and Equality". The program included a video of the Urban League of Portland missions near the end of the dinner event. Keynote speaker was Ron Daly, who spoke of his experience of working his way to the President of Communications for R.R. Donnelly & Sons Co. Footage also includes Brenda Braxton, Master of Ceremonies; Rev. Denis Bell; Dr. Judith Ramaley, Urban League of Portland Co-Chair; Keith Lovett, Fred Meyer vice president and Urban League of Portland Co-Chair; Lawrence J. Dark, President and CEO of Urban League of Portland; Michael Lewellen and Jidi Petre, award presenters; Bill Prows, US West; Avel Gordley, Oregon State Representative; Tony Hopson, Self Entertainment, Inc.; and Gerald McFadden, Volunteers of America. DVD duplicates of this recording are available in the collection (items 53-54).
VHS; recorded and produced by Paragon Cable; July 10, 1996 (1:02:00). The theme was "The Celebration of our Youth". Keynote speaker was Rev. Ron Sailor, Jr. Footage also includes Donna Johnson, Mistress of Ceremonies; James. R. Boehlke, Urban Leage of Portland Board Chair; Kay Toran, Dinner Co-Chair; Hilson and Sweeta Darrow, Whitney M. Young students; Bob Boyer, Oregon Senator and Dinner Co-Chair; and Norma Paulus, Superintendent of Public Instruction. A DVD duplicate of this recording is available in the collection (item 55).
VHS, July 10, 1996 (1:56:00)
DVD (1 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of February 1996 Equal Opportunity Dinner (items 50 and 56).
DVD (2 of 2) duplicate of VHS recording of February 1996 Equal Opportunity Dinner (items 50 and 56).
DVD duplicate of VHS recording of July 1996 Annual Dinner (items 51-52).
VHS, Unedited footage from the Urban League of Portland's Equal Opportunity Dinner. February 22, 1996 (2:01:00) See description of item 50 for contents of the recording. DVD duplicates of this recording are available in the collection (items 53-54).
VHS, speeches (1:12:00)
Advertisements for the Urban League of Portland's Equal Opportunities Day Dinner. (0:01:00)
U-matic, February 7, 1989
VHS, A video that attempts to get youth to think deeply about racism in the USA. (0:25:11)
VHS, News reel about grandparents taking on the role of parents. August 1, 1994 (0:01:53)
VHS, Talking with Grandparents about how to support their families if they are raising their grandchildren. May 16, 1995 (0:14:20)
VHS, Ron Wyden attends a Grandparents meeting to hear what their concerns are and address some of them. October 20, 1994 (0:44:50)
VHS, A panel of Grandmothers talk about their lives and tricks to raising their grandchildren. (0:28:05)
Urban League of Portland ad requesting people to sign up and be sponsors for children in need of help. (0:01:30)
VHS, Clips include setting up for the Hand in Hand events at Clackamas Elementary School, the actual assembly, the events afterward, Channel 6 news coverage thereof, Hand in Hand advertisements, and instructional clips of how to help babies learn. (1:09:00)
VHS, 2 different PSAs that urge parents to take part in child's education. (0:01:20)
VHS, English PSAs repeated 3 times, 1 Spanish version, stars Meryl Streep, urges parents to take part in their child's education. August 9, 1996 (0:01:60)
VHS, Presentation about the Urban League of Portland's homeless program. June 12, 1987 (0:11:00)
Betacam, Don McClave, Bobby Nunn, Hill. September, 1995
Betacam, H.J. Belton Hamilton, Rabbi Emanuel Rose, Kevin Fuller. September, 1995
Betacam, Joy Pruitt, John Holly, Donnie Adair, Myrtle Carr, L. Dark, Barb O'Hare. September, 1995
VHS, Interview with those working at the Urban League of Portland's Adult Employment Center; Lelia, Donna, Nationwide. (0:42:22)
VHS, Urban League of Portland's Center for Career Development interview. (0:30:40)
VHS, Leah Dumas is using the Urban League of Portland's Employment Center to look for a job. (0:32:42)
Interview with Myron Clark and his employer. (0:32:49)
Interview with Myron Clark. (0:32:42)
(0:18:59)
VHS, An attorney says that a CSD has the right to adopt a grandchild when the parents are unable to provide enough support for their children. (2:03:00)
VHS, Illustrate how books can be used to build "bridges" between people in order to keep families together. (1:48:00)
VHS, Panel discussion about what is breaking families apart and/or keeping them from reconnecting. (1:58:00)
VHS, Workshop on keeping families together, talk about how to help children get out of the adoption system. (1:02:00)
VHS, (0:52:00) (1:02:00)
VHS, Dr. Lenora Poe discusses her struggles with raising her daughter. January 5, 1985 (0:47:00)
VHS, Discusses the purpose of a Kwanza celebration, adult and senior services center. December 30, 1994 (1:11:06)
VHS, Summit explaining how to use technology for leadership, Dr. Darrell Tufuku. October 12, 1995 (1:26:00)
VHS, Informational video about Les Brown, Brown gives a motivational speech. (2:11:46)
VHS (0:12:20)
VHS, Video inviting those in need of help to come and join the Urban League. April 24, 1991 (0:01:05)
VHS, Video of clients. March 6, 1996 (0:06:50)
VHS, December 23, 1996 (0:05:35)
VHS, Recording of Metro Beat, discuss civil rights in the Portland area, mention Urban League of Portland. July 12, 1992 (1:59:03)
VHS, A fair for seniors at the Urban League of Portland's Senior center to display foreign cultures. (0:10:27)
VHS, informational video about the Namaste Conference Center just outside portland (0:04:20)
VHS, Interview with Lawrence Dark and students of the program. September 18, 1996 (01:00:00)
VHS, Nike advertisement race relations. May 21, 1992 (0:01:00)
VHS, Pastor Tellis, a volunteer at the Urban League of Portland talks about the League. February 19, 2011 (0:29:40)
VHS, Promote the support of groups fighting for peace across the globe. (0:24:24)
VHS, Rules of Measure 11 are outlined for youth in this information video. (0:08:07)
VHS, Informational video about the Urban League of Portland's One Stop Career Center and other job application centers (0:20:50)
VHS, Informational video about the struggles of caring for children when all of the parents in the household work outside the home. (0:16:05)
VHS, November 4, 1991 (0:06:28)
VHS, Private fundraising drive and march to support public schools in Portland. October 21, 1996
VHS recorded and produced by Paragon Cable (1:00:36). Presents research on poverty and urban sprawl. Minnesota State Representative, Myron Orfields, presents data comparing povery and urban sprawl for the Portland metro area and a Minnesota metro area.
VHS, John Powell talks at the Urban League about how, in order to change any system, we must understand it's core objective. October 28, 1997 (1:16:57)
VHS, "One Goal," "We're Asking," "Walk the Walk," recruitment Videos for the Corporation for National Service. (0:14:17)
VHS, Video about sexual activity and AIDS among teenagers. (0:32:39)
VHS, Informational video about the Regional Drug Initiative, praising it for bringing all concerned parties to the table. January 29, 1998 (0:11:10)
VHS, Informational Video about Job Corps and how it helps students. (0:13:08)
(0:06:33)
VHS, The STRIVE program is discussed and presented in this episode of 60 Minutes. May 4, 1997 (0:026:05)
VHS, Music video about the summer youth program. (0:17:11)
VHS, Music video about the summer youth program (0:09:13)
VHS, Video explaining why math and science should be taught in completely interactive environments. (0:57:26)
VHS, Discussion about the treatment of gays, bisexuals, and lesbians with the New Harvest Foundation and how the Foundation is helping these groups of individuals. (0:14:32)
VHS, October 14, 1997 (0:03:13)
VHS, (0:54:06)
VHS, ways to help put family back together (0:17:08)
VHS, Informational video about the ULPDX and the services it provides. (0:22:22)
U-matic (0:05:00)
VHS; (0:10:43). A short documentary, prepared by IBEX Communication, on the U.S. Forest Service's Urban Ranger Project to expose urban youth to the National Forests. The video documents the participation of urban youth in programs to learn about the environment outside of their neighborhood and home and careers such as natural resources.
VHS, Video about what one should consider when contemplating a job and why someone should consider joining the Forest Service. (0:10:36)
VHS, Review of how 1997 welfare reforms could impact a fictional family. (0:29:31)
VHS, Mission Video for the Los Angeles Urban League. (0:14:44)
VHS, Pictures and Video of youth participating in sports. April 2003 - October 2003 (0:31:00)
Series 2 consists of 27 audiocassette tapes and 3 reel-to-reel sound recordings. The majority of the recordings are of speeches given at the National Urban League Conferences in 1991-1994. For the events and membership drives, the sound recordings are primarily promotional radio advertisements.
Promo (00:00:30)
3 promos, (00:00:30) each
(00:01:00)
(00:01:00)
Promo (00:00:50)
Speakers: J. Jerome Harris, Irving S. Hamer, Jr.
Honored: Richard W. Riley, Evelyn K. Moons, Cornel West
Alvin F. Pouissant
Reverend Jesse L. Jackson, Mayor Sharon P. Kelly
Inspiration Message: Reverend Cecil Williams
Randall L. Tobias
30 minutes each side
Southwest Media Productions, 28 minutes
aired on KBOO
4 promos, (00:00:30) each
James Brown, one minute spot announcement
The Beulah M. Porter Collection is made up of dance cards and annotated wooden ice cream spoons collected by alumna Porter that document her participation in social events as a student at Oregon Agricultural College. Dating from 1928 to 1930, the 21 dance cards reflect Porter's attendance of formal dances held at residential halls on campus and fraternity/sorority houses. The spoons were also collected by Porter at these events and contain handwritten notes.
The Oregon Central Military Road Map depicts a portion of the Oregon Central Military Road as surveyed in July-September 1865. The hand-drawn manuscript map depicts the daily progress of the survey party, which was accompanied by a U.S. Army cavalry escort. Major geographic and natural features along the route are shown on the map, including the Middle Fork of the Willamette, Deschutes, and Williamson Rivers; Klamath Marsh, Fort Klamath, Klamath Lake, and Lower Klamath Lake; the Lakes Basin including Goose, Summer, and Abert Lakes; and Diamond Peak, Beatys Butte, and Steens Mountain. The route of the wagon road crossed through the Klamath Reservation. The map has an approximate scale of 1 inch = 15 miles or about 1:1,000,000. The map is approximately 17 x 22 inches and is backed with linen.
The creator of the map is not identified.
This collection consists of photographs of Station research both in Corvallis and at Branch Stations throughout Oregon. Subjects include Station personnel; Branch station and campus buildings and research facilities; and research projects in agricultural chemistry, agricultural engineering, animal sciences, dairy husbandry, entomology, crop and soil science, fisheries and wildlife, food technology, horticulture, irrigation, microbiology, nutrition, poultry science, and vegetable crops.
Many of the photographs were taken by Robert Birdsall, Agricultural Information Specialist (1952-1963) and later Journalism Department faculty (1963-1983). Other photographers include Bob Mason, Bill Reasons, and Len Calvert.
This collection consists almost exclusively of b/w contact prints and camera negatives (4x5 and 120). The contact prints are glued to 6x9 in. cards. There are also a few b/w 8x10 prints without camera negatives (P132:237-238) and several color prints and negatives (P132:239-241). One negative (P132:054) has been removed from the collection because of excessive buckling of the emulsion.
Print and negative missing, Oct. 1994
near Mt. Angel.
The Oregon Native American Language Sound Recordings consist of cassette audiotape recordings of interviews conducted by Joe E. Pierce with members of the Coquille and Siletz tribes. The recordings were made as part of a project funded by the National Science Foundation for a systematic study of Native American languages in Oregon. Bruce J. Rigsby also participated in the study.
The recordings document the Tolowa and Tutuni languages, especially word phrases, songs, and stories. The grammatical structure of the languages is also addressed. The bulk of the recordings are interviews with Mrs. Amelia Brown; other individuals that are included in the recordings are Mr. and Mrs. Lopez, Mrs. Ida Bensell, Hoxy Simmons, Miller Collins, and Mrs. Carrie Streets.
The cassette audiotapes were prepared in the late 1980s by Tom Grigsby of the OSU Anthropology Department from original reel-to-reel recordings. Tape logs were prepared at that time and are included with the collection.
The President's Office Records of William Jasper Kerr are comprised of materials from Kerr's tenure as President of Oregon Agricultural College. The collection include a general reference file, correspondence, newspaper clippings, communications with the Oregon State Board of Higher Education, publications, reports to the Board of Regents, survey materials, and biographic materials. The collection contains extensive material relating to the physical and curricular growth of the college, the controversial reorganization of OAC and the University of Oregon, and the state of higher education in Oregon in the early 20th century.
Series I contains reports, correspondence, notes, and clippings related to agriculture in Oregon. The material spans the latter portion of Kerr's career at Oregon Agricultural College and his time as the state's Chancellor of higher education. Subjects referenced in this series include agricultural and industrial production, marketing and sales, construction, public works, agricultural sciences, college and government employees, trade law, and government organizations.
Series II includes correspondence relating to the management and operation of Oregon Agricultural College. The series contains correspondence between William Jasper Kerr, OAC faculty, the Association of American Universities, students, figures associated with the institution, and the general public. Topics include equipment and materials for college use, reports from faculty members, the donation of a McCormick Reaper replica, legislation impacting OAC, Extension Service programming, faculty appointments, and budget matters.
Series III is comprised of newspaper clippings relating to Oregon Agricultural College. Subjects include state educational funding, college attendance, faculty activities and research, development of the campus, and OAC's curricular offerings. The series contains both photocopies and a selection of original clippings.
Series IV contains official reports and statements made by Oregon Agricultural College to the Oregon State Board of Higher Curricula between 1925 and 1941. The series also contains an outline of a plan for dividing programmatic efforts between the University of Oregon and OAC.
This series is comprised of a document entitled "Resolutions Adopted July 22, 1935, by the State Board of Higher Education Regarding Dr. Kerr, Retiring Chancellor."
This series is comprised of an excerpt from Edwin T. Reed's William Jasper Kerr, A Biography.
Series VII contains publications authored by William J. Kerr and members of Oregon Agricultural College between 1908 and 1964. Topics include the importance of Home Economics during wartime, the construction of the Memorial Union, higher education in Oregon, and the state of land grant institutions. The series also contains programs and materials from the dedication of the Kerr Library.
Series VIII is comprised of a memo drafted by Godfrey Vernon Cospon regarding the reorganization of Oregon Agricultural College and the University of Oregon and the ensuing controversy.
This series contains reports to the Board of Regents summarizing the state of Oregon Agricultural College between 1909 and 1914. The series also contains a report for 1929.
This series is comprised of materials relating to the reorganization of Oregon Agricultural College and the University of Oregon in 1931-1932. The contents of this series relate to the reassignment of subject specialties, programs, faculty, and funding between the two universities.
This series is comprised of four bound volumes relating to surveys of land grant institutions conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Education. It includes one volume of completed portions of the survey for Oregon Agricultural College, one volume providing a detailed report of the state of higher education in Oregon, and two volumes of results of the survey from other institutions across the United States.
The Order of the Spoon Records contain materials pertaining to the establishment, organization, and proceedings of the group; membership eligibility and lists; and meetings and banquets held by the Order. Of special note is a large spoon, the presumed emblem of the Order.
Series I contains the Articles of Organization describing the function of the Order of the Spoon as well as membership eligibility. The Articles also establish that the emblem of the organization be a "good sized spoon (shape and size to be determined)" and that the officers of the Order be referred to as "the chief spoon bearer, an assistant chief spoon bearer, and a ladler." Also included within this series are lists of charter and other members who joined the Order throughout the 1930s.
Series II contains meeting notices sent to the members of the Order as well as detailed summaries of those meetings. This series also contains information about the establishment of the Order of the Spoon, from its humble beginnings within the Triad Club, to its position as an organization of which the majority of doctoral degree holding faculty were a part.
Series III consists of programs for banquets and ceremonies held by the Order of the Spoon. Programs contain invocations, detailed descriptions of orders of events as well as accompanying scripts, responsibilities of each member of the Order's committee, lists of candidates, and "Questions for Examination" which were asked of candidates as part of the ceremony of their entrance into the ranks of the Order. This series also includes a statement which was recited in chorus by all the new members of the Order of the Spoon.
Series IV consists of correspondence produced by the Order with topics of discussion including membership invitations and responses; invitations to speakers to present at Order meetings (and responses); reports about finances (mainly concerning the purchase of spoons with membership fees); and other activities of the organization, such as officer elections and recruitment of new members.
Series V consists of financial reports documenting fees collected and the ways in which they were spent -- mainly on spoons and banquets. The member of the Order's committee responsible for these tabulations was the Ladler.
Series VI consists of table place cards labeled with names of Order members as well as a number of spare decorative spoons that are a part of the place cards. The series also contains a large spoon, presumably the emblem of the Order.
This personal collection of photographs assembled by E.E. Wilson includes images of Wilson, his family, and friends; the Oregon Agricultural College campus and buildings; Corvallis homes and businesses, including the Carriage Factory and the Opera House; the Panama Pacific Exposition in San Francisco (1915); wildlife and outdoor scenes; outdoor recreation including camping, hunting, fishing, and hiking; and Native Americans (Siletz). Many different photographers are represented. Some of the 1890s images of Oregon Agricultural College were taken by John Fulton; there are portraits from many different studios in Corvallis (including L. Goldson and W. S. Gardner), Albany, Portland and outside Oregon.
This collection includes a variety of forms, but consists predominantly of black and white prints, many of which have accompanying original glass and or nitrate negatives. The glass negatives include 315 4x5 plates, 161 5x7 plates, and 6 5x8 plates. Other notable formats include several ambrotypes, daguerrotypes, tintypes, and cyanotypes. Many of the prints are mounted.
Materials are described topically by series and alphabetically by title within each series. Items are physically arranged by format and thereunder numerically. Items can be requested by the item number (such as P101:003).
Series 1 is comprised of photographs of mills, farms, orchards, livestock, and other agricultural and industrial work. Of particular note are several photographs documenting late-19th century hopyards.
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized images available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
Series 2 includes images of homes, schools, retail businesses, and other public and private buildings. The series also includes images of street scenes, home interiors, and community events and activities. Though many of these images appear to be from Corvallis and nearby locations, there are also photographs of California missions, a school in England, and a home in Nebraska.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints; 2 4x5 negatives
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
3 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
4 photographic prints
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
2 nitrate negatives
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 acetate negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
4 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 2 nitrate negatives
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
4 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Series 3 is comprised of photographs of various events and activities including birthday parties, theatrical productions, and a 1953 banquet honoring E.E. Wilson. The series also includes numerous photographs from the 1915 Panama Pacific Exposition and photographs of members of the Siletz tribe participating in a 1910 Independence Day celebration.
1 photographic print (postcard)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 acetate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
4 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
3 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
Series 4 is comprised of photographs taken on the Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) campus during the late 19th century and early 20th century. The photos capture campus buildings and scenes, class sessions, and students.
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x8 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
3 photographic prints; 1 5x8 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 5x7 glass negative
1 broken glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x8 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints (cyanotype)
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x8 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 5x8 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 broken glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Series 5 is comprised of an extensive body of photographs taken on the Oregon coast. Most of these photos document the area around Yaquina Bay and the town of Newport and include images of Oregon coast landmarks, beach scenes, recreational activities, and homes and structures including the Wilson family coastal home.
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
3 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print; 6 nitrate negatives
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 5x7 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print (color postcard)
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
4 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized images available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
3 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
4 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
Series 6 is comprised of more than 400 images documenting outdoor scenes and activities. Subjects include picnics, camping trips, hunting, fishing, boating, and other outdoor recreation. The series also includes numerous scenic view of Diamond Lake, Crater Lake National Park, the Willamette River, Yellowstone National Park, and locations, many of which are unidentified.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
2 4x5 glass negatives
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
3 photographic prints; 2 nitrate negatives
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints; 1 5x7 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
6 photographic prints; 1 broken glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x8 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 2 acetate negatives
1 photographic print; 1 acetate negative
2 photographic print; 1 acetate negative
3 photographic print; 1 acetate negative
4 photographic prints; 1 acetate negative
1 acetate negative
1 acetate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 non-photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized photograph available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (hand-colored)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
4 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
3 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Series 7 is comprised of both candid and studio photographs of identified and unidentified individuals. Many of the photographs in this series are of E.E. Wilson and other Wilson family members. The series also includes images of Wilsons' friends and colleagues.
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
Digitized image in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitzed image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 ambrotype
1 photographic print
1 ambrotype
1 ambrotype
1 ambrotype
1 tintype
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 daguerreotype
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
3 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 2 nitrate negatives
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print (cyanotype)
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 non-photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (hand-colored)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 daguerreotype
1 photographic print; 1 broken glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 tintype
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
5 photographic prints; 1 5x7 glass negative
5 photographic prints
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 nitrate negative
1 tintype
1 tintype
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 4x5 glass negative
5 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 tintype
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 tintype
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 tintype
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (cabinet portrait)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (cabinet portrait)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 tintype
Digitized image in Oregon Digital.
1 4x5 glass negative; 1 tintype
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
2 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 photographic print
1 artifact (large metal button)
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
2 photographic prints
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 acetate negative
1 nitrate negative
Digitized image available in Oregon Digital.
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 ambrotype
1 tintype
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
2 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
3 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 ambrotype
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
2 artifacts (large metal buttons)
2 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print (hand-colored)
1 photographic print; 1 acetate positive
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (halftone)
3 photographic prints
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
4 photographic prints
2 photographic prints; 1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative; 1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 4x5 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 5x7 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
4 photographic prints; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 nitrate negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 nitrate negative
1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print; 1 4x5 glass negative
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print (carte de visite)
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print; 1 nitrate negative
Series 8 is comprised of a set of 10 commercial souvenir photographs with views of landmarks in British Columbia and Alaska. Wilson may have purchased these photographs during a trip to the area.
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
1 photographic print
Azadi – which means freedom – is the newsletter of the Oregon State College Chapter of the Hindustan Student’s Association of America. This collection consists of four issues of the newsletter, published in October 1947, January 1949, April 1950, and April 1953. The mimeographed publication includes editorials, articles, poetry, and profiles of prominent individuals in India. Topics addressed in the newsletter include atomic energy; women, education, water resources and hydro-electric power, public health, agriculture, and economic development in India; and the music of India. Extensive profiles of Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore were published in the newsletter.
The Clifford L. Smith Photograph Collection consists of photographs assembled by Smith that document student life at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) in the late 1910s. Several photos are pictures of the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity house and members. A number of photos also show many early traditions at Oregon Agricultural College, including the rook bonfire and rook-sophomore tug-of-war at the millrace. All of the items in the collection are photographic or postcard prints.
These images were made several years before Smith attended OAC; he may have acquired them through his connection with Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.
Series I consists of photographs of student life at Oregon Agricultural College. Some images are of waterfalls along the Columbia River Gorge.
Hiatt, Rose, Webster, Daigh, Grayton, and Perry.
Sophomores in the millrace.
The Hop Press: A Memorandum of What's Brewin' was prepared by Hop Specialist G.R. Hoerner and issued monthly by the Oregon State College Extension Service as a means to provide information on hops and brewing to County Extension Agents in Oregon. The first issue was published in October 1948; it ceased publication with the March 1955 issue. This informal publication provides a detailed view of hops growing and production in Oregon and the northwest for this period. Each typewritten, mimeographed, 8-page newsletter includes a variety of announcements and news items regarding hops and brewing in Oregon. Statistics on hop acreage, the costs of production, and number of growers are available throughout. Information about the Oregon Hop Industry Research Advisory Committee, the Growers Advisory Committee, and other industry organizations is provided in the newsletter. Summaries and preliminary reports of hops research being conducted at Oregon State are included as well as news items from newspapers and other publications in Oregon and Washington. Agendas for Hop Growers Conferences and summaries of presentations at these conferences are also provided in the newsletter.
The Hop Press includes information about hops growing in Washington, Idaho, and California and was distributed to individuals and organizations outside of Oregon. All issues of the Hop Press are available online.
The Donald B. Zobel Papers reflect Zobel's involvement with the Oregon Flora Project. The Papers includes correspondence, grant proposals, meeting minutes and agendas, publications and research notes documenting Zobel's work on the Oregon Plant Atlas component of the Flora Project. The collection also includes issues of the Oregon Flora Newsletter.
The Team Liberation Records document the establishment and functioning of this organization, which was formed to provide interactive workshops to the Oregon State University community on issues of racism, sexism, heterosexism, classism, ageism, religious intolerance, communications, and community and leadership development. The records include rosters of facilitators; correspondence; promotional materials; budget proposals; and training materials, including agendas and exercises.
All the materials in the collection are born-digital records. The original arrangement of the files has been retained. Most of the files are arranged in folders with the following titles: Admin; Agendas; Exercises; Development; NCCJ [National Conference of Community and Justice]; Process Coordination; and Training. The majority of the files are *.doc format. The records include a few (less than 10) files of other formats: . ppt; .pub, .pdf, and .html. The records are available to researchers in the Special Collections and Archives Research Center Reading Room.
The Oregon State Technical Record was written, edited, and published by engineering students at Oregon State College. It was initially published by the Federated Engineers of Oregon Agricultural College and then the Associated Engineers. Beginning in 1948, the undergraduate students of the School of Engineering were in charge of the publication.
During most of its existence, the magazine was published 4 times per academic year in November, January, March, and May. The magazine includes technical articles written by students, faculty, and alumni; information about engineering courses and research activities; announcements of student activities for engineering students; and articles about regional developments in industry, engineering, and technology. Campus news, especially regarding facilities and engineering topics; notices from the engineering technical and honor societies; and alumni news are also included. Most issues have a column written by the Dean of the School of Engineering and many have departmental notes and news. Editorials by the magazine staff address a variety of topics. The magazine is illustrated with photographs and includes a humor page as well as local, regional, and national advertising.
The issues that comprise this archival collection are available online in Oregon Digital. Most (about 80%) of the magazine issues are represented in this archival collection. The archival collection does not include the first 3 issues -- published in March, June and November 1924. These are are available, with all issues of the Oregon State Technical Record, in the History of Oregon State University rare book collection. An index that includes references for the Technical Record and its predecessor, the Student Engineer, is available in the History of Oregon State University collection and online.
Series 1 consists of individual unbound issues of the Oregon State Technical Record.
This issue is falling apart, that is why it is in a folder by itself.
The Oral Histories of the 1959 Oregon State College Wrestling Court collection consists of materials created and assembled by Brittany Backen for her research paper "'Coed Cheesecake': The 1959 Wrestling Court and the Politics of the Marriage Market at Oregon State College," submitted in December 2013 for the course "HST 407 - Untold History of OSU," taught by Ben Mutschler. Backen's paper received the Library Undergraduate Research Award in May 2014 and garnered Honorable Mention OSU Undergraduate Research Student of the Year Award honors for its author.
The collection includes audio and transcripts for six born digital interviews conducted in 2013 by Backen with four members of the 1959 wrestling court - Carol Hamlin, Maryann Hogan, Sharon Reid, and Janet Essig - as well as former wrestler Ken Noteboom, and former editor of the Daily Barometer Chuck Wenstrom. In addition to born digital sound recordings and transcripts, collection materials include pdf scans of release agreements, research materials and Backen's final paper; newspaper clippings and correspondence; and photocopies of Life Magazine and Sports Illustrated articles featuring the 1959 wrestling court as well as the Sigma Delta Chi 1959-1960 school year calendar and other materials documenting the 1959 OSC wrestling team.
Sound files were originally created in .m4a and .wav formats which were then converted to .mp3 access files. All born digital materials are stored on the Special Collections & Archives Research Center file server.
All interviews were conducted by Brittany Backen. Specific interview topics are included below.
Essig discusses OSC, her major in Education, classes, living on campus, being part of a sorority, and campus activities. She also discusses the selection process for the 1959 wrestling court, President Strand's reaction to the swimsuit photographs and the resulting controversy, and Dean of Women Helen Moor's reaction to the photographs. Essig also notes her own family's response to the controversy and the pictures printed in the media, and details her life after OSC. Interview conducted in Eugene, Oregon.
Hogan discusses her childhood, her decision to attend Oregon State College, campus life, being part of a sorority, and titles she held in high school and at OSC. She also recounts Ken Noteboom approaching her about being in the wrestling court, the candidate interview and selection process, the swimsuit photo shoot, and reactions to the pictures both on and off campus. She also speaks of her life after graduating from OSC in 1960. Interview conducted in Bend, Oregon.
Reid discusses her childhood growing up in Albany, Oregon, majoring in Business Education at Oregon State College, engaging in activities on campus with her sorority, and her decision to join the wrestling court. She also discusses her memories of Dale Thomas, Helen Moor and August Strand. Interview conducted in Albany, Oregon.
Hamlin discusses her childhood growing up in Roseburg, Oregon, her decision to attend Oregon State College, activities her sorority was involved with on campus, education, and her memories of the wrestling court, including the selection process. She also relays her views on the wrestling court, the reactions of her family and on campus to the swimsuit photos, and the court's receiving letters after the photos were published in national magazines. Interview conducted in Medford, Oregon.
Noteboom discusses his decision to attend Oregon State College, his major and classes at OSC, his involvement in wrestling, and his coach, Dale Thomas. He recounts the idea and creation of the wrestling court, including the processes for selecting women to interview and choosing the seven women that made up the court. He also discusses life after graduating, coordinating class reunions, reunions of the 1959 wrestling court, and serving on the wrestling endowment board. Interview conducted at Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon.
Wenstrom discusses his relationship with President Strand and Strand's professional background, Strand's objection to hosting the Pacific Coast Intercollegiate Wrestling Tournament, and Dale Thomas's role in bringing the tournament to Corvallis. He also notes the path that he took to becoming a student at Oregon State, his activities as a student including his involvement with the Barometer, his memories of the wrestling court, and its reception on campus. Interview conducted at Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon.
Series II consists of both paper materials and born digital items documenting the wrestling court controversy, a later wrestling court assembled in 1984, and reunions of the original court in 1989 and 2009.
Digital contents include a pdf version of Brittany Backen's final paper, "'Coed Cheesecake': The 1959 Wrestling Court and the Politics of the Marriage Market at Oregon State College," (also available online) as well as scans of research materials that she gathered - including many of the paper materials held in Series II - and signed permissions forms for each of her interview subjects.
Paper contents include photocopied magazine articles and newspaper clippings contemporary to the wrestling court controversy, as well as newspaper clippings noting a 1989 reunion of the court. Additional print materials of note include photocopies of the Sigma Delta Chi Calendar for the 1959-1960 school year, which featured three members of the original wrestling court; photocopies of correspondence written to Janet Aune from various men in reaction to the 1959 Life Magazine and Sports Illustrated articles; a wrestling score card and photocopies of the 1984 PAC-10 Conference Wrestling tournament program, which included pictures of the 1959 and 1984 wrestling courts.
An invitation to attend the annual "Oregon State Wrestling Homecoming" held in Corvallis, January 28-29, 1984, is available in the series, as is correspondence from Ken Noteboom to Janet Essig expressing thanks for attending the homecoming event. Also included is a photocopy of a letter, dated March 23, 2009, from Janet Essig to the other members of the 1959 wrestling court, regarding a proposed group reunion in Corvallis.
The Harold Frodsham Photographs consist of 19 images taken by Frodsham of the interiors and exteriors of lumber mills in Oregon during a tour of mills in Oregon and northern California. The prints are 3.5 x 5.5 inches and are annotated with detailed descriptions. There are duplicate prints for two of the images. The collection includes images of the Booth-Kelly Lumber Company (Springfield), Brooks-Scanlon Lumber Company (Bend), Pelican Bay Lumber Company (Klamath Falls), Shevlin-Hixon Company (Bend), and Silverton Lumber Company (Silverton). The photographs depict hauling equipment, stackers, and conveyors. The collection also includes one image of Brooks-Scanlon Lumber Company Camp 1 in central Oregon where Ponderosa pine is being logged.
All of the images are available online in the Oregon Explorer Digital Collection of historic photographs.
The Jack Williams Slides consist of color slides made by the father of Gerald W. Williams, Jack Williams, during the mid-to-late 1950s. The images depict landscapes in Oregon, California, and Washington; birds and wildlife; and dams and other water projects in the Pacific Northwest. The photographs include views of the Oregon coast, Crater Lake, the McKenzie River, and other lakes and rivers of the Oregon Cascades. Several dams and water projects in Oregon and Washington are depicted, including the Pelton Dam, Clearwater Power Project, Tokatee Falls aqueduct, The Dalles Dam, Detroit Dam, Bonneville Dam, the Celilo Canal, Ice Harbor Dam, and Yale Dam.
Of special note are 20 color slides of Native Americans fishing at Celilo Falls on the Columbia River before the area was flooded by The Dalles Dam. These images depict fishing platforms, fishermen netting salmon, a water-powered fish wheel, and a fishermen’s camp. Most of the images are available online in Oregon Digital.
Series 1 consists of 244 slides depicting landscapes and scenic views in Oregon, especially dams and water projects. The images include views of the Oregon Coast; Crater Lake; the Deschutes, Clackamas, and McKenzie Rivers; Sisters; Clear Lake; and McNary Lake. Several dams and water projects in Oregon are depicted, including the Pelton Dam, Clearwater Power Project, the aqueduct at Tokatee Falls, The Dalles Dam, Lookout Point Dam, Detroit Dam on the Santiam River, Bonneville Dam, and the Celilo Canal.
Series 2 consists of 20 slides of Native Americans netting salmon at Celilo Falls on the Columbia River before the area was flooded by The Dalles Dam. The images include views of 3-Mile Rapids, a water-powered fish wheel, fishing platforms, and a fishermen's camp. Most (18) of the images are available online in Oregon Digital.
Series 3 consists of 439 slides depicting landscapes in California and other western states and Canada. The series also includes images of birds and other wildlife. Several photographs of dams are included in this series.
280 slides; slides of California locations include Long Beach, Pismo Beach, Santa Barbara, Shasta Lake, San Francisco, Coast Highway, the Redwood Highway, and Cherry Valley. Wildlife slides include mallards, geese, swans, cormorants, western and eared grebes, horned owls, osprey, ruddy ducks, brown bear, elk, coyotes, deer, marmots, and turtles. Slides of the English Channel and Tule Lake are also found in this folder.
159 slides; Landscape slides are from a variety of locations in California, Washington, and Canada including the Trinity River and Hills, Norden Lake, Lake Tahoe, Donner Pass, Yosemite, Bremerton, Lake Merwin, Seattle, the Olympic Mountains, Hell's Canyon, Little Salmon River, Missouri River, Saskatoon, and Edmonton. Other slides of Ice Harbor Dam, Yale Dam, Quarnstrom's Home, and the Puget Sound Navy Yard are included.
Series 4 consists of 32 slides depicting the 1960 Winter Olympic Games, held in Squaw Valley, California, and sea animals at Marineland. Marineland of the Pacific was a public oceanarium and tourist attraction in Los Angeles County, California that opened in 1954.
The John W. Trigg Photograph Album was assembled by Trigg during the 1915-1916 academic year and includes images of campus views and building, athletics, student activities, and military cadets. The campus views include an image of Benton Hall in snow and the interior of the Armory (now McAlexander Fieldhouse). The album includes several views of the Corvallis area, especially of the 1916 flood in the Willamette Valley. Images of the Oregon Electric Railway Station and a farmhouse submerged in 3 feet of water are of special note.
Student activities are depicted in photos of serpentines on the football field and the Class of 1919 forming the numerals "19" on the parade field (lower campus). Several images of individual cadets, military cadets in formation and drilling, and a platoon-level group photograph of 39 cadets in uniform are part of the collection. This was the last year for military cadets as the ROTC program was initiated in 1917.
The only photograph in the collection that post-dates the 1915-1916 year is a 1918 photographic postcard of a group of students and cadets in uniform with the title The Fate of Folly. The image appears to memorialize two OAC students who died in World War I. This photo was probably added to the album after Trigg learned of the death of his classmates.
Photographs of football games, players, and a football coach; the basketball team; and several track and field events, including shot put, javelin, and pole vault, are part of the album. Of special note are several images of a rodeo.
The photographs in the album are primarily photographic postcards with a few snapshots. Several loose photographs, not affixed in the album, are also part of the collection.
The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program Records document the recognition of Oregon family farms and ranches that have been operated continuously by a family for a century or more. The records consist primarily of application materials for each farm or ranch. The application files from 1958-2005 and administrative records from those years are held by the Oregon Historical Society. This collection contains records from 2006 to the present. Additional records will be added to the collection on an annual basis. The application materials include completed forms, correspondence, photographs, DVDs, published narratives, maps, and copies of historical documentation of land ownership. The collection also includes administrative materials, primarily from award ceremonies and lists of farms and ranches that received Century or Sesquicentennial designation from 2006 to present.
The records include more than 220 photographs submitted with applications; most of these images are duplicates of original historical photographs of the farms and ranches. Some of the photographs are contemporary images of farm structures and family members. Color and b/w prints are included. Several of the applications also include copies of digital image files on CD or flash drive.
Materials from the ORCFRP awards presentation program are represented and consist of program brochures and outlines, descriptions of the farms inducted, contact information for the awardees, ORCFRP newsletters, and a printed copy of the presentation. Also included is a copy of the book "Eating It Up in Eden: The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Cookbook" by Richard Engeman.
The collection also includes a database (in electronic form) listing all the farms and ranches that have been accepted into the program since its inception in 1958. The database includes the historic and current acreage of the property, structures currently residing on the property, the economic use of the farm or ranch, and whether the property was part of a donation land claim. An online database is hosted by the Oregon Explorer.
Series 1 consists of Oregon Century Farm and Ranch applications for the years 2006 through present. Applications and supporting materials such as property records and family history documents are submitted to the Century Farm and Ranch Program, part of the Oregon Farm Bureau, for recognition of family owning and working the same land for one hundred years or more. Each application and supporting materials are individually foldered. Application files in Series 1 are arranged in chronological order by CFR (Century Farm and Ranch) number. Two exceptions are CFR 1150 and CFR 1151. The original application for CFR 1150 began in 2007 and was approved in 2010. The original application for CFR 1151 began in 2006 and was approved in 2010.
Series 2 consists of Oregon Sesquicentennial Farm and Ranch applications for the years 2008 through the present. Applications and supporting materials such as property records and family history documents are submitted to the Century Farm and Ranch Program, part of the Oregon Farm Bureau, for recognition of family owning and working the same land for one hundred fifty years or more. Each application and supporting materials are individually foldered and arranged in chronological order by SFR (Sesquicentennial Farm and Ranch) number. One oversized 14 x 18 inch box holds oversized photos belonging to SFR 0011.
Series 3 consists of materials generated for the annual Century and Sesquicentennial Farm and Ranch awards ceremony at the Oregon State Fair for the years 2006 through the present. Materials include fliers advertising the ceremony, lists of the awardees, the 2014 and 2015 newsletters, photographs, and CDs of digital photos of the ceremony.
Along with award ceremony materials, contains the book "Eating It Up in Eden: The Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Cookbook" by Richard Engeman.
Along with award ceremony materials contains 2014 newsletter.
Along with award ceremony materials contains 2015 newsletter.
The Century Farm and Ranch database is hosted by Oregon Explorer for the Oregon Century Farm and Ranch Program and provides information gathered from the award applications from 1958 to 2016 for Century and Sesquicentennial farms and ranches throughout Oregon. The database lists all the farms and ranches that have been accepted into the program since its inception in 1958. Data may include the historic and current acreage of the property, structures currently residing on the property, the economic use of the farm or ranch, and whether the property was part of a donation land claim. The database is updated annually and provides publicly available data that can be downloaded. Database link: http://ocfrp.library.oregonstate.edu/public/farms.
The Terra Research Magazine consists of print and born-digital content highlighting the research, scholarship, and creative endeavors of faculty and students at Oregon State University. Terra was launched in spring 2006 with a color print magazine and companion website. This collection includes print and born-digital versions of the magazine as well as captures of the accompanying website. Many articles were written by Editor Nick Houtman and writer Lee Sherman.
The content of the magazine represents the full range of research conducted at Oregon State University and includes science, technology, and engineering; natural resources; agriculture, ecosystems, and the environment; marine sciences and climate; and public health. The magazine includes articles highlighting creative efforts in art, music, theater, and apparel design as well as inter-disciplinary research. The research activities of undergraduate and graduate students are described in many articles. Special issues on marine sciences (Winter 2011 and Spring 2016), Oregon’s climate (Winter 2012), human health (Winter 2015) and an annual report on research (Fall 2013) are included in the collection.
Most issues of Terra are available online in Oregon Digital.
Series 1 consists of 40 individual issues of Terra published from 2006 to 2019. Most of the issues are available in both print and born-digital form online. However, several issues are only available online (noted below) and one issue (Summer 2011) is only available in print form. Beginning with Winter 2016, the issues are only available online in digital form, with the exception of the Winter 2018 issue which is available in both print and digital format. Links to individual issues in Oregon Digital are provided below. Born-digital issues total 0.8 Gbytes of digital content.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
The issue includes an article on the OSU Fermentation Lab. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes articles on youth in detention centers and public transportation access for the disabled. Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes an article on languages native to Oregon. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes articles on organic farming and solar power. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Special Issue on Marine Sciences. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes an article on online security.
This issue includes an article on apparel design. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Special Issue: Oregon's Climate. Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes an article on race car design. Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes articles on animal research ethics and plankton-inspired art. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Special Insert: 2013 Annual Report of Research. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes an article on digital surveillance. Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Special Issue: Human Health. Available online in Oregon Digital.
This issue includes an article on women in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Only available online in Oregon Digital.
Series 2 consists of the Terra website as captured periodically from 2017 to 2019 using Archive-It. The captured site can be viewed here. These captures include online stories and access to print versions of the magazine and total 7.5 Gbytes.
The Journalism Department Photographs consist of images created or assembled by Journalism Department staff and students. All of the images are b/w prints. Subjects depicted in the photographs include the members and activities of the Sigma Delta Chi journalism honorary society at Oregon State; students and student activities; campus buildings, including the Library and LaSells Stewart Center; the sculpture on Jefferson Street south of the library; and Oregon scenes. Of especial note are images of Journalism Department faculty, Fred Shideler and John Burtner, and graduates, Tom Eggers and Shawn Church.
The images in Series IV through VI of student activities, campus buildings, and Oregon scenes may have been assembled by the department in preparing publicity for the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication annual conference held in Corvallis in 1983. Several of the images are available online and are linked from the item descriptions.
Photographers are indicated for many of the images and include Allan J. de Lay, Ed Hershberger, and the Oregon Department of Transportation.
The Sigma Delta Chi photographs depict the members and activities of this journalism organization during the 1930s. Several of the photographs were published in the Beaver yearbook. Descriptions for these images were taken from the captions attached to the photographs.
Initiation with 6 men wearing straw hats and carrying parasols.
The annual Barometer Bust, sponsored by Sigma Delta Chi, is scheduled every spring. All members of the staffs of the Barometer, student daily paper, attend and are amused by the antics of Sigma Delta Chi members and prospective pledges. A future SDX member loses his pants as faculty members laugh in the background.
Sigma Delta Chi Dick Kennedy, editor of the student daily, and Fred M. Shideler, head of Journalism Department and alumni member of SDX tap out stories at the downtown editorial offices of the student daily.
The Publications Committee of Oregon State College controls all student publications and selects the editors and managers of each one. Member of Sigma Delta Shi predominate on the committee shown above. At the extreme right is E.T. Reed, publications editor for the college and an associate member of Sigma Delta Chi. Seated at the head of the table and third from the right is Fred M. Shideler, head of the Journalism Department, Chairman of the Committee, and an alumni member of Sigma Delta Chi. Burch Davis, fourth from right and Ed Burchell, left are both member of the Oregon State chapter. Published in 1938 Beaver, p. 117.
The Memorial Union building on the Oregon State College campus. This student-erected building houses the offices of all publications and the Journalism Department. Sigma Delta Chi is honored by being one of all publications and the Journalism Department. Sigma Delta Chi is honored by being one of the three honor or professional societies who have their own rooms in the building
Chapter adviser John C. Burtner spreads it on at the annual Barometer Bust, funfest and party sponsored by Sigma Delta Chi for all students enrolled in journalism or working on the staff of a major publication on the campus. Published in the 1939 Beaver, p. 121.
This group under the guidance of Hal Higgs, Sigma Delta Chi man shown in front center, edits the campus Student Directory, telephone book showing home addresses, school addresses, and school registered. Published in 1938 Beaver, p. 127.
Part of the "festive board" at the SDX banquet honoring Dr. Rex Harlow, director of the Stanford School Press Relations Investigation, who is made an associate member of the OSC chapter last April. Dick Gearhart, president of the chapter and last year's delegate is shown on the extreme right.
C.D. Byrne, director of information for the Oregon State System of Higher Education and a member of the Wisconsin chapter of SDX, takes a bite of ice cream between words with Dr. Rex. F. Harlow, professor of education at Stanford University and director of the Stanford School Press Relations Investigation. Dick Kennedy, editor of the Daily Barometer, is on Dr. Harlow's left. The banquet followed Dr. Harlow's initiation as an associate member of the OSC chapter.
Ben Ames, famed United Press European correspondent, was the center of interest at one of the Oregon State SDX professional meetings last spring. A number of the campus "big shots" including President George W. Peavy (standing) came in for the luncheon meeting. Ames is shown in the center, thumb in vest. Published in the 1938 Beaver, p. 240.
Another view of the Ben Ames professional meeting, showing Ames (fourth from the left) with President Peavy, Dr. U.G. Dubach, Dean of Men; the Japanese consul from Portland; and W.A. Jensen, executive secretary of the college, following in order. Ames gave one of the most interesting talks and brought forth more questions than perhaps any other person who addressed the SDX men during the year.
Sigma Delta Chi is a co-sponsor of the Student Directory. Here, Editor Hall Higgs directs the activities of the staff from the Barometer workroom. Published in 1938 Beaver, p. 127.
The campus buildings photographs include images of the Kerr Administration Building, Benton Hall, the Memorial Union, Waldo Hall, LaSells Strewart Center, and campus dormitories.
Published in 1978 Beaver, p. 245.
These b/w prints depict various scenic views of the Oregon coast, Columbia Gorge, Cascades, and central Oregon. All images provided by the Oregon Department of Transportation.
Series VII consists of photographs taken and mounted by students for Journalism Department class projects.
Anonymous photographer.
Greg Collin, photographer.
Jon Gray, photographer.
Students studying on lawn, in library, in Memorial Union lounge, and elsewhere. Chris Bunsen, photographer.
Michael J. Myers, photographer.
Rick Packard, photographer.
Fraternity activities including intramurals; IFC sing; volleyball; cleaning train in Avery Park; sweeping porch of Delta Tau Delta house; and a meal. Don Mason, photographer.
Herman Jottman (sp?), photographer.
The Student Activities Photograph Collection is an artificial collection of photographs documenting student activities at Oregon State University. The bulk of the collection consists of group photographs of student organizations, including the Blue Key Honor Society and Mortar Board Honor Society. Images of members and officers of the Dad's Club are also part of the collection.
Dan Poling, Dean of Men from 1947 to 1972, is pictured with members of the Blue Key Honor Society and the Dad's Club.
The collection includes images made by Howell's Studio and Hise Studio in Corvallis; all the items in the collection are b/w photographic prints.
Series I consists of images depicting student activities at Oregon State Unviersity, primarily group photographs of student organizations.
Individuals identified: (back row left to right) Frank Guthrie, Jerry Clark, Ivan Woods, Kenneth "Skip" Thayer, and Tom Pickens; (front row left to right) Lucy Baker, Delores Loring, Larry Beck, and Sally Hornecker.
Individuals pictured: (front row) Patricia Wallace, Bernice Murray, Shirley Hill, Joyce Kennedy, Helen Peterson, and Barbara Dewey (back row) Professor Paul X. Knoll, Virginia Robinson, Wallace Coleman, Shirleen Barr, Don Dimick, Sylvia Arnold, Dean Bailey, and Dr. Earl W. Wells.
Identified individuals: V.J. Brust and J. Jones.
Identified individual: Ellis Tetsuya Okano.
Identified individual: Betty Sue Shideler.
Includes a number of the individuals pictured in P045:03. Identified individual: J. Jones.
The 1947 image depicts an individual in what appears to be an optometrist’s examination room. The 1960 image depicts four men looking at a map. Notation on back reads “Y Round table.”
Individuals pictured: (front left to right) Fred Morse, Joe Ross, and John King; (middle left to right) Jack Sather, unidentified, Fred Morse (repeat of the first name), and Cleo French; (back left to right) Dan Poling, T. Nelson, Bill Southworth, Scheiman, unidentified, and Andy Landforce.
Portrait produced by Howells Studio.
Identified individual: V. Brust, back row right.
Reproductions of an early 20th century photograph of the Trysting Tree.
Individuals pictured: (left to right) Fern Edwards, Betty Jelinek, Elizabeth Fletcher, Adena Joy, Nadine Millhollen, Estora Ricks and Amy Aldrich.
Photograph produced by Howells Studio.
Photograph produced by Howells Studio.
Pictured: Betty Hamlin, Beth Bryant, Marian Murray, Helen Harstad, Joan Mead, Donna Rae Hill, Ruth Faubion, Margaret Buswell, Margaret Roberts, Florence Sims, and Marge Olsen. Photograph produced by Hise Studio.
Two photographs depict all the members of the Club. Two images of Hugh Engle Morrison and one image depicting Lee Hansen (Dad’s Club President) and Dan W. Poling (Dean of Men) are included.
Individuals identified: Lee Hansen, Ralph Folberg, Les Copenhagen, and Waldo Taylor.
Individuals identified: Lee Hansen, Ralph Folberg, Les Copenhagen, Waldo Taylor, and Dan Poling.
Board members: Barbara Altpeter, Judy Atwood, Carolyn Bergen, Judy Blair, Sharon Calder, Lori Connarn, Joan Dobrot, Laura Felbick, Sue Goeller, Jeanne Hawley, Carlene Hise, Anne Hofmann, Joan Kallberg, Heather Maser, Patti McQuaid, Sheila Miles, Sandra O’Neal, Jean Penrose, and Ernestine Sherman. This is a reproduction of a photograph in a Mortar Board scrapbook.
Series I contains materials relating to club membership and includes lists of members organized by year, chronologically, and alphabetically; and lists of officers and committee members. Records relating to meeting attendance and membership information forms compiled for the 30th anniversary of the club are included in this series. The information forms contain biographical data such as work histories, education, etc. Series II consists of meeting minutes. Series III is primarily correspondence and pertains to meeting attendance, remembrance of deceased members, committees, budgetary expenditures, topics of weekly meetings, and the Oregon State College Masonic student organization the Square and Compass Club. Series IV contains publications published for the Triad Club membership and includes booklets commemorating the club's 30th and 50th anniversaries, the club Songbook, and printed quotations and invocations by club chaplain and member Delmer Goode.
Series V consists of copies of the club's constitutions and bylaws, as well as revisions and amendments to the original charter. Series VI consists of newspaper clippings from The Oregon Journal and The Corvallis Gazette-Times on the activities and deaths of Triad Club members, the history of OSU, and the Square and Compass Club. Series VII is a scrapbook with newspaper clippings on Triad club events and members, Christmas cards, thank you notes, and correspondence. Materials date from 1926 to 1940. Series VIII contains photographs of club members in group shots, monthly meetings, and holiday parties. Series IX is an audiotape recording and two scripts of a speech delivered by Ken Munford for the 60th Anniversary celebration. Series X consists of two artifacts: the old gavel used to open club meetings and a charter member ribbon prepared for the 30th Anniversary celebration.
(Quarterly brochure on the history of Benton County published by local businessman Thomas A. Wilson. Group photo of Triad Club for 30th Anniversary is featured)
(Pamphlet produced in conjunction with 30th Anniversary of the club, 3 copies)
(A booklet of printed invocations originally delivered at club meetings by Chaplain Delmer Goode, 4 copies)
(Publication drafts of Graces-includes list of invocations not used in final printed booklet)
(Flyers with quotes on the history and mission of higher education. Assembled by Delmer Goode and distributed at club meetings.)
(including photocopied reference copy)
(Used prior to presentation of gavel by President A. L. Strand)
The Political Science Department Records consist primarily of records and photographs of the Institute on World Affairs held at Oregon State College in the 1950s. Brochures for several symposia on world affairs held in the 1960s are also included. Photographs of participants and activities in the 1964 Model United Nations are part of the collection.
All photographs are b/w prints.
Series I consists primarily of paper records and photographs of the Institute on World Affairs held at Oregon State College in the 1950s. Several of the institutes focused on Asia, including Korea and Southeast Asia; others addressed issues in Africa and the Soviet Union. The records include brochures, programs, newspaper clippings, correspondence, and the text of speeches. The photographs are of institute speakers and participants. The paper records also include brochures for several symposia on world affairs held at Oregon State University in the 1960s.
Series II consists of photographs depicting activities and participants at the 1964 Model United Nations.
The Greek Life Office Records document the administration of this office, which regulates and provides support services to fraternity and sorority chapters at Oregon State University. These records were generated and assembled by the Greek Life office and include: annual review forms, articles of incorporation, artifacts, brochures, bylaws, constitutions, correspondence, digital files, handbooks, meeting minutes, newsletters, newspaper clippings, photographs, reports, statistics, and survey materials.
These records primarily reflect administrative activities by the Greek Life Office that document interaction with chapter leadership, compilation of Greek membership statistics, the evaluation of annual rush activities, the development of training workshops/classes, collaboration with law enforcement in educational programming, policy clarification, response to student conduct issues, and the survey of students regarding their perceptions of the Greek community.
Materials relating to particular Oregon State University fraternity and sorority chapters can be found in Series 4, which is made up of a combination of annual review forms, articles of incorporation, bylaws, colonization proposals, constitutions, correspondence, flyers, newsletters, newspaper clippings, and policy reports.
Activities organized by the Greek community are reflected in event registration lists, newspaper clippings, photographs, and chapter files.
Born digital materials in this collection are in a variety of formats: Word documents, Excel Spreadsheets, and PowerPoint presentations. They are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 1 is made up of correspondence, letters, and memoranda reflecting interaction between the Greek Life Office and fraternity/sorority chapter presidents, other OSU departments, law enforcement agencies, alumni organizations, and Greek life administrators at other universities. Topics covered in this series include: policy clarification, risk management policies, Greek leadership training classes, and educational programming geared toward traditions such as Shasta Weekend.
Courses specifically oriented toward Greek chapter presidents and members of the IFC/Panhellenic Councils. The classes featured are "Leadership Training" (HIED 406P) and "Living Group Presidents Class" (CSSA 406), and "Creating Positive Change" (AHE 499).
Series 2 is made up of reports issued by the Office of Greek Life, the Office of the Dean of Students, and the Student Affairs Task Force on Greek Life.
Series 3 reflects the work of various OSU committees, the Panhellenic Council, and the Interfraternity Council. In addition to meeting minutes, this series includes correspondence, bylaws, newspaper clippings, notes, and reports.
This folder is made up of 692 born digital files generated by the Panhellenic Council, the Panhellenic Advisory Board, and the Corvallis Area Alumnae Panhellenic (CAAP). In addition to meeting minutes and agendas, these files contain membership statistics, bylaws, constitutions, recruitment schedule information, and weekly bulletins. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 4 documents fraternity and sorority chapters and is primarily organized alphabetically by chapter. This series contains annual review forms, articles of incorporation, bylaws, charter records, constitutions, correspondence, event programs, newsletters, newspaper clippings, recolonization proposals, reports, and risk management plans.
2 folders.
2 folders.
Folder consists of 1 bound volume.
This folder is made up of 13 born digital files that contain bylaws, constitutions, risk management plans, and policy guides from various fraternity and sorority chapters. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 5 is comprised of statistical information reflecting various aspects of the OSU Greek community: chapter grade point averages membership expenses, members by major, members by class, canceled contracts, members living outside the house, and students involved in rush/pledge activities.
5 folders.
Some of the data is featured in Greek Leadership class research papers.
4 folders.
3 folders.
5 folders.
Series 6 is made up of newspaper articles featuring stories about OSU fraternities and sororities and were featured primarily in the The Daily Barometer, The Corvallis Gazette-Times, and The Oregonian.
Series 7 consists of handbooks, manuals, and guides generated by the Greek Life Office and other OSU departments. These materials were designed to orient students to the rush/pledge process, the regulations governing chapter leadership, the guidelines for planning events within the Greek community, and engagement with the Corvallis Police Department through the Greek liaison program.
Kappa Sigma
Series 8 consists of publications produced and collected by the Office of Greek Life that include newsletters, brochures, research bulletins, and journal articles.
These published articles and chapters were written by Greek Life Director Robert Kerr.
The research focuses on the first term academic achievement and graduation rates of fraternity members. These bulletins were published as part of a series issued by the OSU Office of the Dean of Students and the Counseling and Testing Center.
Includes programs for Greek Centennial celebration events in 2015.
4 folders. There is no content for the years 1993 through 2001.
Series 9 documents survey activity gauging student opinion about participation in rush activities, general perceptions of the OSU Greek community, and chapter finances.
3 folders.
2 folders
Series 10 is made up of scripts of speeches and presentations and slide shows presented at annual Greek matriculation ceremonies, the centennial celebration of Greek Life at OSU, and various other events.
This folder consists of 4 born digital files documenting the 2005 and 2006 Greek Matriculation ceremonies. The file reflecting the 2005 ceremony is a Word file containing the presentation script for Director of Greek Life Robert Kerr, while the other three are made up of moving image files of the 2006 ceremony. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
This digital folder contains 362 images incorporated into 2 slide shows created for the 2007 and 2008 Greek Matriculation ceremonies, respectively. The images primarily depict group shots of sorority and fraternity members and views from Greek community events such as the IFC Sing. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Presentations by representatives of programs forming the Student Life Leadership Team. Greek Life is one of the programs.
Series 11 is comprised of registration event lists generated by the Greek Life Office to keep track of events planned by sorority and fraternity chapters. The information includes the house sponsoring the activity, the date, and event title. Other details in the lists relate to the administrative paperwork accepted or required for the event to comply with university policies.
5 folders.
Series 12 contains materials collected by Greek Life Office staff for reference and informational purposes. These items include articles, brochures, historical timelines, newspaper clippings, policy statements, reports, and a student paper.
Color photocopies.
Series 13 is comprised of photographs depicting OSU sorority and fraternity members in group shots, chapter houses, various Greek events, and Greek Life office staff. Many of the photographs had been laminated and mounted in foamcore for display. In total, there are 103 photographic prints in this series.
Some of the images contain captions with velcro backing. Captions found loose among the images have been collected and placed into a small envelope that is inside one of the folders.
Series 14 is made up of artifacts consisting of two plaques and the "Greek Scruples" card game.
Sheets of uncut playing cards and instruction guide housed in an envelope. Developed at the University of Pittsburgh.
Series 15 relates to the outcomes of judicial hearings brought before the Interfraternity Council Judicial Committee and Panhellenic Council. In addition to letters to fraternities and sororities outlining violations and probationary action, these files also include newspaper clippings and copies of risk management policies.
Access to these files is restricted due to the presence of confidential information. All requests for access to these materials should be directed to the University Archivist.
The Theodore Rockwell Papers are comprised of materials representing the career and personal interests of nuclear engineer, author, biographer, and parapsychology researcher Ted Rockwell. The collection includes personal and professional correspondence, extensive subject files, lecture and speech materials, engineering design documents, professional literature, biographical data, organizational administrative materials, photographs, and memorabilia documenting Rockwell's career in the field of nuclear engineering. These materials represent his work at Oak Ridge National Laboratories during and after the Manhattan Project, his role as Technical Director of the U.S. Navy's nuclear propulsion initiative, his work as co-founder and director of the engineering firm MPR Associates, Inc., and his service as Vice President of Radiation, Science, and Health, Inc.
Also included is an extensive body of material in the field of parapsychology including literature from scores of research and education organizations, articles, clippings, correspondence, and publications. Topics include psychokinesis, extrasensory perception, faith healing, and extraterrestrial life. The collection also represents significant organizations and individuals within the parapsychology community including the Parapsychological Association and the American Society of Dowsers, James Randi, Anne Gehman, and Bruce and John Klingbeil.
A record of Rockwell's extensive publishing history is also present within the collection and includes documents from his work on The Rickover Effect (a biography of Admiral Rickover), Creating the New World (an autobiographical history of early nuclear engineering), and The Virtual Librarian (a futuristic mystery novel), as well as numerous technical and popular articles in the fields of nuclear engineering, radiation health and safety, nuclear power, and parapsychology.
Series I is composed of correspondence to and from Ted Rockwell and spans his career at MPR Associates, Inc. through his retirement. This series is largely comprised of correspondence relating to Rockwell's two primary interests--nuclear power and parapsychology. Correspondents include friends, family, colleagues, journalists, policymakers, organizational representatives, and fellow parapsychology enthusiasts. Of particular note is correspondence with Jim Muckerheide (RSH, Inc. co-founder), William Wegner (Naval Reactors alum and colleague), and Teed Rockwell (son and coauthor). Subjects include Admiral Rickover and the development of the United States' nuclear navy, nuclear power and energy production in the United States and abroad, developments in parapsychology research, and Rockwell's participation in nuclear energy and parapsychology organizations and initiatives such as the American Nuclear Society, the Naval Reactors alumni group, the Parapsychological Association, and the National Institute for Discovery Science.
The series also includes materials relating to Rockwell's book and article publishing efforts consisting of correspondence with the U.S. Naval Institute Press and iUniverse, publisher solicitations, draft reviews, reader inquiries, and marketing and sales information.
Series II is comprised of materials documenting Rockwell's personal life. Included are biographical sketches and transcripts from two oral history interviews with Rockwell; coursework and materials from his primary school education, New Trier High School, and Princeton University; fifteen notebooks generated by Rockwell containing to-do lists, contact information, and records of day-to-day activities; a series of essays on literature and writing collected by Rockwell; and an assortment of ephemera including two journal entries and a small "Victoria Para la Democracia" leaflet documenting his 1947 trip to Havana, Cuba, a ticket stub from the 1961 U.S presidential inauguration, a ticket stub from a 1961 dinner honoring Republican Congressional members, a series of souvenir letters from the Dionne Quintuplets, and a photocopied collection of sensational newspaper headlines featuring individuals with the Rockwell surname.
The series also includes materials written by Rockwell for publication in the New Trier News, Winnetka Talk, and the Princeton Sunday News; an article entitled "Bred for Fury", on cockfighting published in True Magazine; and drafts, correspondence, research materials, and promotional items from several other books and articles authored by Rockwell including The Virtual Librarian, a mystery novel pitting a group of psychics against sentient library software, Us vs. Them, an exploration of conflict in modern society, and Vice Versa, a trilogy of one-act plays.
Series III includes correspondence, design documents, and reference materials from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) in Oak Ridge, Tennessee where Rockwell worked as a process improvement engineer and a radiation shielding engineer between 1943 and 1949. Of particular note is a series of correspondence from Rockwell to his parents documenting his life and work from 1940-1946 at Princeton and ORNL, including observations of life at ORNL, descriptions of his day-to-day activities, and newsclippings and discussion of the significance of atomic energy following the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The series also includes a file on security at ORNL; technical reports authored on Rockwell's work in radiation shielding; documentation from the Oak Ridge School of Reactor Technology, including a mock diploma granting a "Doctor[ate] of Nuclear Husbandry"; an article by Rockwell entitled "Frontier Life Among the Atom Splitters" that appeared in a December 1945 issue of The Saturday Evening Post; and drafts of "Putting Wings on the Atom," a later article discussing nuclear-powered aircraft. Also included are materials from the Association of Scientists for Atomic Education and the Association of Oak Ridge Engineers and Scientists documenting efforts to place the United States' atomic energy program under civilian control. The series also contains several images of housing and work at Oak Ridge during and after the war years in both print and photocopy format.
This series also contains extensive informational and promotional materials documenting the role of the Manhattan Project in ending World War II and includes materials from Rockwell's book Creating the New World, records of Oak Ridge's 50th Anniversary Celebration in 1992, issues of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory Review, and materials from the Atomic Heritage Foundation, the Manhattan Project Heritage Preservation Association, the National Atomic Museum, and the National Museum of Nuclear Science and History, and a file on former ORNL Director Clarence Edward Larson.
Series IV is comprised of materials relating to Rockwell's involvement in the development of the U.S. Navy's nuclear-powered fleet from 1949-1964. The series includes design documents; correspondence, including letters from Admiral Rickover; technical reports authored by Rockwell; Navy Nuclear Propulsion Program Reports; materials from the U.S. Navy Bureau of Ships (BuShips); and nuclear reactor case histories. The series also includes materials generated and collected by William Wegner and John W. Crawford, Jr., both members of Admiral Rickover's administrative team comprising professional correspondence, reports, speeches, and reference materials dating from their Navy careers, biographical sketches, and personal correspondence with Rockwell. Also included are subject files relating to the Sasebo, Japan contamination incident and the capture of German submarine U-234.
The series also contains extensive Navy memorabilia including invitations and programs from numerous Navy events such as keel layings, launchings, and decommissionings; promotional booklets and pamphlets; ship and shipyard newsletters; photographs; presskits; and documents provided to non-crewmen aboard ships. The collection also includes commemorative envelopes, or cachets, honoring Navy events and historical moments in ocean exploration and flight. Many envelopes were sent to Rockwell courtesy of Admiral Rickover and include letters from Rickover and other Navy personnel, photographs, and memorabilia. Vessels represented in the collection include the USS Enterprise, Nautilus, Sea Wolf, Skipjack, and Triton, among others.
The series also represents Rockwell's interest in the achievements of Admiral Hyman G. Rickover which culminated in The Rickover Effect, a 1992 biography of the Admiral published by the U.S. Naval Institute Press. The series includes correspondence, drafts, reviews, and promotion and publishing files relating to The Rickover Effect, an extensive collection of reports, newspaper clippings, publications, speeches, and correspondence reflecting the life and work of Admiral Rickover, documents from the PBS documentary Rickover: The Birth of Nuclear Power, and materials from an incomplete project concept to produce a motion picture film on the life of Rickover.
Series V is comprised of documents relating to the operation of MPR Associates, Inc., a nuclear engineering firm founded in 1964 by Naval Reactors alumni Harry Mandil, Robert Panoff, and Theodore Rockwell. The series includes information on a proposed partnership between MPR and Toshiba to develop and evaluate Dr. Sadao Hattori's 4S Reactor; a file on MPR employee Norman Cole, Jr.; company correspondence and meeting minutes; a proposed partnership between MPR and the Lewis-Sigler Genomics Institute; a series of documents collected by Rockwell reflecting MPR's company philosophy; and MPR promotional materials including event invitations, an informational pamphlet, several issues of company publication MPR Profile, and essays on professional engineering by Panoff and Rockwell. The series also includes files on nuclear medicine, reactor safety, Ranque-Hilsch vortex tubes, a diagram of an MPR design for a nuclear-powered merchant ship, and transparencies from a speech titled "On Being a Professional" given by Rockwell at an MPR informational meeting.
Series VI is comprised of documents from Radiation, Science, and Health, Inc., a not-for-profit nuclear power advocacy organization founded by James Muckerheide (president) and Ted Rockwell (vice president) in 1996. RHS was founded as a tool for independent radiation experts to influence radiation policy, especially relating to restrictions governing low level radiation. The series includes internal correspondence and documents; promotional correspondence to RSH members and supporters; lobbying correspondence to legislators and other government officials; subject files on radiation exposure; reports from the National Research Council (NRC) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); and documents regarding partnerships with the Washington Legal Foundation and Eagle Alliance.
Of particular interest are materials documenting RSH's 2000-2003 challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency's rules on radionuclides in drinking water. This includes several editions of RSH's report "Low Level Radiation Health Effects: Compiling the Data," an official response to the EPA's drinking water policy, and documentation from a lawsuit filed against the EPA by the city of Waukesha, Wisconsin, the Nuclear Energy Institute, Inc., the National Mining Association, and RHS, Inc.
Series VII is comprised of research materials generated, collected, and assembled by Rockwell relating to nuclear energy and is reflective of his pro-nuclear position. The series includes correspondence; clippings, photocopies, and web articles from popular media sources such as Newsweek, Time, and Science; informational and promotional materials from pro- and anti-nuclear interest groups; technical reports; newsletters; and an extensive body of material written for speaking events and publications by Rockwell.
Much of the collection addresses the role of nuclear power as an energy source in the late 20th and early 21st centuries and the health and environmental effects of exposure to low level radiation. Other topics include regulation and regulatory reform in the nuclear power industry; nuclear disasters including Chernobyl, Three Mile Island, and Fukushima Daiichi; the utility of non-nuclear fuel sources; public opinion, fear, and misinformation regarding radiation safety; nuclear waste management; nuclear terrorism; and nuclear legislation. The series includes materials from a variety of special interest groups such as the Atomic Industrial Forum, Americans for Nuclear Energy, the American Nuclear Society, Eagle Alliance, and Greenpeace. Also included are publications and correspondence from professionals in the nuclear power industry including T.D. Luckey, Jim Muckerheide, Jerry Cuttler, Myron Pollycove, John Cameron, Jovan Jovanovich, and Sadao Hattori. Materials in the collection also address the effects of radiation therapy and include publications and firsthand accounts documenting the treatment of Edward J. Bauser, a Navy colleague of Rockwell. Documents containing unpublished information regarding Bauser's health and medical treatment are restricted.
The series also includes drafts and published copies of articles, books, and speeches written by Rockwell in support of increased reliance on nuclear energy on a global scale. Included are materials from his book Power to the People, notes from his participation in a 2009 GOP Senate hearing, and copies of numerous articles published in industry and popular publications.
Additional documents addressing the medical care of Edward J. Bauser from 1999-2002 are restricted and housed separately in box 85.
Series VIII is comprised of materials collected and generated by Rockwell pertaining to the field of parapsychology. Topics include conciousness studies; extrasensory perception; psychokinesis; healing (energy, faith, psychic, etc.); acupuncture, chiropractic, and Rolfing; homoeopathy, dietary supplementation, and herbal remedies; dowsing; energy manipulation; forecasting; time manipulation; and UFOs, alien abductions, and extraterrestrial life.
The series is comprised largely of promotional and informational materials from organizations in the field of parapsychology including interest and research groups, manufacturers and retailers, and educational programs. Organizations represented in this series include the Academy of Religion and Psychical Research, the Academy of Spirituality and Paranormal Studies, the Institute for Noetic Sciences, the International Society for the Study of Subtle Energies and Energy Medicine, the Monroe Institute, and the Parapsychological Association. The series also reflects Rockwell's role as Vice President of the United States Psychotronic Association and advisory council member of the National Institue of Discovery Science. Personalities within the parapsychology community featured in the Rockwell Papers include Anne Gehman, Christopher Bird, Cleve Backster, Robert A. Nash, James Randi, Dean Radin, Robert Jahn, and Rhea White. Of particular note is an extensive collection of materials documenting Rockwell's friendship with Bruce and John Klingbeil, a father-son pair of faith healers and founders of Spindrift, Inc., a research group based out of Salem, Oregon. Materials include publication drafts, cassette tapes, and informational materials from Spindrift and the Grayhaven School of Christian Science Nursing, as well as correspondence addressing the Klingbeils' faith healing research and personal struggles within the First Church of Christ, Scientist, the publication of The Spindrift Papers, and the deaths and legacy of the two men.
Included in this series are correspondence, newsletters, serial publications, informational materials, and advertisements from numerous organizations and educational programs, and an extensive body of newsclippings. Also included is a dream journal kept by Rockwell from 1975-1976, a notebook recording experiments in psychokinesis conducted by Rockwell with celebrity psychic Anne Gehman, and a small collection of bent spoons. The series also includes records from Rockwell's robust publishing history focusing on the relationship between science and parapsychology.
Includes 7 microfiche.
Digital copies of these items are made available for use in the SCARC reading room upon request.
Digital copies of these items are made available for use in the SCARC reading room upon request.
Series IX is comprised of approximately 8 gigabytes of electronic records which were created and collected by Rockwell between 2003 and 2013. These records, which were received on and transferred from one hard drive and three DVDS, contain photographs, draft publications, research materials, video recordings, and correspondence. Included are digitized historical reports and motion picture film documenting life and work at Oak Ridge; materials related to Rockwell's pro-nuclear advocacy work, including video of his testimony during a 2009 Republican Senate Conference hearing; family photographs; and materials from the filming of Rickover: The Birth of Nuclear Power. This content may be accessed in the Special Collections & Archives Research Center Reading Room.
Also included are sixteen unidentified and unprocessed 3.5" floppy diskettes and 2 5.25" floppy diskettes. This content is currently unavailable to researchers.
Ted Rockwell's personal hard drive comprises more than 3,000 files including 600 digital photographs documenting activities of the Rockwell family. Contents include drafts of books and articles; correspondence; reference materials such as Wikipedia pages, online news articles, and scans of documents and photographs; materials relating to Rockwell's publishing efforts; a video recording of Rockwell reading from Creating the New World; and photos and documents from the filming of Rickover: The Birth of Nuclear Power. Much of the content relates to Rockwell's pro-nuclear advocacy efforts and includes materials pertaining to the Fukushima Daiichi disaster, the New York Academy of Sciences publication Chernobyl: Consequences of the Catastrophe for People and the Environment, nuclear regulation, hormesis, and radiation saftey.
These files comprise a video recording of a Senate Republican Conference hearing investigating a proposed cap-and-trade national energy tax and the possible expansion of nuclear power in the United States. The hearing is chaired by Senator Bob Bennett (Utah). Rockwell is one of several experts to give testimony during the hearing.
This collection of electronic records is comprised of an untitled film and digital reproductions of several documents dating from the late 1940s and early 1950s. The film, which is approximately 1 hour and 20 minutes in length, is comprised of color footage taken at Oak Ridge between 1945 and 1951. The film documents the construction of the Poplar Creek bridge and other structures at Oak Ridge, views of the town and surrounding area, scientists working with a test pile, and the christening of the "Sunday Punch," a B-25 airplane purchased with funds collected from the workers of ORNL. The collection also comprises technical papers and correspondence relating to the development of nuclear-powered vessels by the U.S. Navy including reports created by Farrington Daniels, H. G. Rickover, N. J. Palladino, J. H. Frye, Jr., and Ted Rockwell between 1946 and 1949. The file also includes a scan of "The Nuclear Propulsion Plant of the USS Nautilus SSN-571," an article published in 1954 by the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers.
This collection of electronic records is comprised of 93 photographs taken at Oak Ridge during and after World War II. Included are photographs of an Army-Navy "E" Award ceremony, the Daniels Experimental Power Pile, the town of Oak Ridge, research and production facilities, and several Oak Ridge personnel including Arthur Snell, Alvin Weinberg, and Eugene Wigner.
The Lower Division Records document the reorganization of Oregon higher education in the early 1930s, specifically the establishment of Lower Division curricula for all students completing degrees at Oregon Agricultural College. The records describe the initial proposal as well as responses and reports produced by the Deans of the college concerning it. The materials include correspondence, meeting minutes and notes, research, studies, and reports, including the 1942-1944 biennial report describing the activities of the Lower Division, especially pertaining to the Army Specialized Training Program. The collection also contains correspondence pertaining to and with a number of Lower Division faculty, several of which were instructors in the Army Specialized Training Program during the war years.
A portion of the records were created and assembled by Mahlon Ellwood Smith, Dean of the Lower Division from its establishment in 1932 until his retirement in 1949.
Series I consists of microfilmed materials prepared or assembled by M. Ellwood Smith, Dean of the School of Basic Arts and Sciences, pertaining to the organization and establishment of a Lower Division curriculum at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). It contains regulations governing the operations of interinstitutional deans and directors in the fields of minor work at OAC and the University of Oregon; multiple studies pertaining to Lower Division organization as well as procedures for its establishment at other universities; and correspondence between Dean M. Ellwood Smith and individuals and organizations, including Registrar E. B. Lemon, President W. J. Kerr and the Administrative Council, regarding the reorganization of the Lower Division. The bulk of the materials were created in 1932-1933. The series also includes later correspondence regarding Lower Division summer session classes and other Lower Division matters.
Series II consists of microfilmed minutes documenting a meeting about the general controversy between the University of Oregon and Oregon State College relative to courses taught in the Lower Division at each school as well as reference to the entire controversy.
Series III consists of memos, correspondence, and reports pertaining to the proposal for establishment of Lower Division curricula at Oregon Agricultural College. The collection contains reports and correspondence produced by Dean Peavy of the School of Forestry, Dean Hance of the School of Mines, Dean Milam of the School of Home Economics, Dean Ziefle of the School of Pharmacy, Dean Rogers of the School of Engineering and Dean Smith of the School of Basic Arts and Sciences describing the effect that a requirement of Lower Division curricula would have on existing curricula as well as the logistics of organizing Lower Division curricula at OAC. It also contains notes from Board of Higher Education meetings, documents describing credit requirements at OAC and contemporary universities, budgetary and general information related to the activities and administrative organization of a number of the Schools at OAC, and memos and reports pertaining to the effectiveness of training received by graduates of the College in a number of fields.
Series IV consists of a biennial report describing the activities of the Lower Division of Liberal Arts and Sciences in the Oregon State System of Higher Education in the 1942-1944 biennium. The bulk of the report discusses the Army Specialized Training Program.
Series V consists of correspondence with and pertaining to the following Lower Division faculty: Ramona E. Berry, Lulu Garrett, A. Grajdanzev, Boyd F. Huff, Rolf W. Ordal, Clarence C. Hulley, Wentworth S. Morris, Sidney Phillips, and Lawrence Tyler. Several of these faculty were instructors in the Army Specialized Training Program during the war years.
The Environmental and Molecular Toxicology Department Faculty Research Publications consist of reprints, offprints, and photocopies of journal articles written by department faculty and graduate student researchers. Many of the studies were conducted prior to the formation of the Environmental and Molecular Toxicology Department by faculty in the Food Science and Technology Department, Marine Freshwater Biomedical Center, and the Agricultural Chemistry Department. The topics addressed in these papers include the cancer chemoprevention effects of chlorophyllin in rainbow trout, zebrafish as a model for toxicological pathology research, the impact of dietary exposure to indole-3-carbinol, studies in mammalian flavin-containing mono-oxygenases, and hepatocarcinogenesis induced by aflatoxin B1.
Several of the papers were written by emeritus faculty George Bailey, Donald Buhler, and Jerry Hendricks. Other researchers whose work is represented in the collection include William Baird, Marita Barth, Robert Becker, Vibeke Breinholt, David Carlson, John Casteel, Yung-Jin Chang, Roger Coulombe, Roderick Dashwood, T.A. Eisele, A.T. Fong, Douglas Goeger, Diana Greene, Ulrich Harttig, Sharon Krueger, Shelley Larsen-Su, L.M. Libbey, Patricia Loveland, Koenraad Marien, Sarah Martin, Catherine Mathews, Theodore Meyers, Cristobal Miranda, Richard Moyer, Joseph Nixon, Gayle Orner, Norman Pawlowski, Cliff Pereira, Ashok Reddy, Daniel Selivonchick, Dennis Shelton, A.D. Shilling, Lisbeth Siddens, Russell Sinnhuber, Jan Spitsbergen, N. Takahashi, Matthew Taylor, Kensal Van Holde, J.L. Wang, Janet Wilcox, David Williams, and Mei-Fei Yueh.
The Memorial Union Program Council (MUPC) Records document the administration of this organization and its role in programming campus events. These records were generated and assembled by the MUPC and include: artifacts, budgetary documents, contracts, correspondence, digital files, handbooks, flyers, meeting minutes, photographs, posters, publications, reports, scrapbooks, and a VHS videotape.
The primary focus of this collection is the coordination of events by the MUPC and the various processes involved in planning them-committee recommendations, budgetary management, staging logistics, publicity, and post event review. Materials illustrating these processes include correspondence, contracts, flyers, meeting minutes, posters, surveys, tickets, artifacts, and evaluation reports. Documentation of some of the events are depicted in photographs, moving images, and scrapbooks. 
Administrative activities reflected in these records include program and budget assessment, the publication of event planning guidelines, and policy reviews/updates in staff meetings. These are featured in reports, handbooks, meeting minutes, and publications.
Series 1 consists of reports compiled by MUPC staff that reflect assessment, budgeting, and activities during summer session. This series also contains digital files.
This folder is made up of 7 born digital files relating to an assessment of the Memorial Union. These files contain focus group questions, learning outcome statements, and a transcript of a group interview of Memorial Union staff. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 2 reflects the work of various Memorial Union Program Council committees and is made up of meeting minutes, notes, correspondence, check in sheets, and committee membership lists.
Series 3 consists of materials reflecting staff meetings and is made up of meeting minutes, agendas, notes, and memoranda.
Series 4 is made up of handbooks, guides, and binders of information assembled as a part of training orientations and reference for MUPC officers. In addition to policy and procedure guidelines, the handbooks also contain blank forms, evaluation reports, maps, and budget information.
5 folders. Not all years represented, gap from 1989 through 2003.
Series 5 documents the planning and publicity of campus events and activities organized by the Memorial Union Program Council. These materials are made up of certificates, contracts, correspondence, event programs, flyers, posters, tickets, information packets, judging forms, meeting minutes, event summary reports, and stage passes. This series also contains digital files.
Includes correspondence regarding the Jo Anne Trow Woman of Distinction Award.
4 folders
3 folders
4 folders
3 folders
2 folders.
8 folders.
Mom's Weekend Fashion Show
Mom's Weekend Fashion Shows
2 folders.
2 folders.
2 folders.
5 folders.
4 folders.
6 folders.
5 folders.
4 folders.
4 folders. Nothing for years 1995 through 2000
This folder consists of 378 born digital files reflecting the planning and publicity of various MUPC events. These files include budgetary records, event summary reports, letter templates, posters, registration form blanks, and survey materials. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 6 is comprised of brochures, event calendars, and other media printed for distribution containing information on Memorial Union Program Council members and activities.
Series 7 is made up of photographic and digital images taken by Memorial Union Program Council staff that document various events organized by MUPC. These events include the Mom's Weekend Fashion Show, Battle of the Bands, and the Children's Holiday Party. In total, there are 46 photographic prints and 2843 digital photographs in this series.
This folder contains 2843 digital photographs arranged in 22 folders. The images depict Mom's Weekend Fashion Shows and music festivals organized by the MUPC. These files are available for viewing in the Reading Room.
Series 7 consists of 3 scrapbooks assembled by the Memorial Union Program Council that contain newspaper clippings, photographs and posters documenting events organized by the MUPC and new stories about its members. There are 5 photographic prints in these scrapbooks.
Series 9 is made up of 1 VHS videotape and 4 digital files containing footage from events organized by the Memorial Union Program Council. Also included is a recording of student auditions for the "OSU Got Talent" competition and an informational video about serving in the MUPC.
VHS videotape
A promotional film to publicize the activities of the MUPC. Video can be accessed here.
Student auditions for the 2013 "OSU Has Talent" contest. Video can be accessed here.
Footage from the 2013 Battle of the Bands. Video can be accessed here.
Footage from the Battle of the Bands and Flat Tail Music Festival. Video can be accessed here.
Series 10 is comprised of artifacts created in the course of organizing and managing Memorial Union Program Council events. The items include a backstage pass on a lanyard, a customized portfolio for the Battle of the Bands Director, refrigerator magnets, and animal bag puppets used as craft models at the 2013 Children's Holiday Party.
The records pertain to the organization, administration, and activities of the society. Several membership lists are included throughout the records.
The collection includes two mounted photogravures and one framed platinotype or platinum print. Each of the photographs appeared in various volumes of the The North American Indian, a 20-volume set that Curtis published between 1907 and 1930. The Clam Digger, a platinotype, one of Curtis’ best- known photographs and one of his first, depicts a Native American woman, possibly Princess Angeline, digging for clams on the shore of Puget Sound. In Woman’s Costume and Baby Swing – Assiniboin a woman in native dress looks down at baby in a swing or hammock, that is suspended by ropes between two small trees. Caches at Celilo is dominated by three wooden cross-framed structures holding wooden planks used to construct seasonal summer homes.
Text below image: "E. S. Curtis. From Copyright Photograph.1909." Mounted photogravure print (8 x 7 inches).
This image appears in The North American Indian, volume 8 and was used to illustrate "the method commonly enjoyed along the river of storing the summer-house materials at the fisheries."
Text below image: "E.S. Curtis. From Copyright Photograph. 1926." Mounted photogravure with embossed plate mark (13 x 11 inches). Assiniboin woman in native costume looking at baby in swing, that is attached by rope to two small trees. This image appears in The North American Indian, volume 18.
Text below image: E.S. Curtis. Photo Number: 24. 1900.
Framed platinum print. (12 x 16 inches). Native American woman digging for clams using a clamming stick on the shoreline, possibly on Puget Sound. The woman is Princess Angeline,daughter of Chief Seattle. A woven basket lies to the side of the woman and a canoe is pulled up on the shore next to her. This image appears in volume 9 of The North American Indian.
The President's Office Records of H. B. Miller contain extensive correspondence regarding the operation of the State Agricultural College of Oregon during Miller's 1896-1897 presidency and include communications with the Board of Trustees, the Executive Committee, college faculty, and educators throughout the United States. The collection also contains a comprehensive report describing the activities of the College during the 1897 academic year, and copies of a biography and an obituary for Miller.
In addition to the original paper documents, a partial, microfilmed copy of this collection is available upon request.
This series is comprised of correspondence relating to Miller's tenure as President of the State Agricultural College of Oregon. The series includes discussion of budgetary concerns, building improvements, decisions made by the Board of Regents and the Executive Committee, Experiment Station publications, purchasing of literature, teaching tools, and supplies, the hiring of new faculty members, reports from existing faculty, and correspondence with educators, students, and private citizens throughout the country.
Series II contains photocopies of an obituary for Henry B. Miller published in the Morning Oregonian on November 28, 1921 and the entry for H. B. Miller in The National Cyclopedia of American Biography.
This series is comprised of a report on the activities of the State Agricultural College of Oregon during the 1896-1897 academic year as submitted by F. Berchtold, Dean of College. It includes records of attendance, student behavior and discipline, course offerings, and the activities of individual departments.
The Nuclear Free America Records document the activities of this nonprofit antinuclear organization during its most active years.
Series 1: Administrative Records covers all general operational functions of Nuclear Free America (NFA) including staffing, administration, finance, outreach and promotion, and organizational contacts. Series 1 is further divided into 4 subseries. Subseries 1: General includes financial records, meeting minutes, and staffing records. Subseries 2: Grant Funding and Subseries 3: Fundraising demonstrate the funding efforts by this small organization through different means, including local initiatives and private donations. Subseries 4: Conferences contains several folders of meeting minutes from the Nuclear Free Local Authorities international conferences, which shed further light on NFA's work.
Series 2: Nuclear Free Zones contains the majority of materials in the collection and documents the efforts by NFA to create "nuclear free zones" (NFZs), or communities where nuclear production, testing, waste, and transportation activities were banned. The series is arranged geographically and contains documentation of NFA's work with each locality or community organizing toward an NFZ declaration. While some efforts were ultimately unsuccessful, most declarations happened successfully due to the liaising and guidance provided by Nuclear Free America. Some communities, including those in New York, Ohio, and California used the NFZ effort to successfully protest nearby nuclear waste disposal plans. Within this series, Subseries 3: Native Lands contains important documentation of efforts by tribal leaders to eradicate nuclear presence from various native reservations. Of particular note are materials including correspondence, meeting minutes, and legal documents related to NFA's partnership with the National Environmental Coalition of Native Americans to help fight the U. S. Department of Energy's plan to site 'temporary' high-level radioactive waste dumps on native lands. The international zones represented in Subseries 4 include documentation of efforts by NFA to include nuclear issues in international discussions related to protecting the Arctic and other remote regions.
Series 3: Weapons-Maker Database shows how NFA became the sole source of information on U.S. companies that make or support nuclear weapons, in order to support socially conscious investing, boycott efforts, and divestment campaigns. The Weapons Maker Database and its various datasets were provided to buyers from 1990 to 1995 and the series contains client information sheets, compiled lists, and correspondence. Series 4: Other Initiatives and Projects demonstrates fundraising and other outreach efforts undertaken by the organization, including significant boycotting activity and documentaries. The collected materials in Series 5: Related Organizations offer a window into both national and international antinuclear and peace activism during the late 1980s and early 1990s, and show grassroots activist efforts addressing a number of nuclear concerns through publications, activities, events, and outreach. The similar materials in Series 6 were grouped by NFA according to topic rather than organization. Series 7: Artifacts and Memorabilia contains ephemera such as stickers, buttons, and placards from a wide body of antinuclear events and organizations. Series 8: Video Recordings contains over 20 VHS tapes about a variety of topics, including the Trojan Nuclear Plant in Oregon and environmental impacts on the Columbia River. Series 9: Electronic Records contains various electronic formats that are not currently processed and inaccessible to researchers.
Series 1 documents the administrative activities of the organization, and includes summary reports, financial records, funding proposals, grant applications, contact lists, and outreach records. Evidence of the organization’s donor outreach activities, including mailer campaigns and donor approaches, is ample in this series. Notable in this series are records of several events sponsored jointly with other local anti-nuclear nonprofit organizations, including two dance marathon fundraisers, which show the organization’s network and community reach. Also notable is an incomplete run of The New Abolitionist, the newspaper produced by Nuclear Free America from the late 1980s to the mid 1990s. Content includes reports from national and international Nuclear Free Zones, progress reports from campaigns underway, and related nuclear and disarmament news.
Series 2 documents the primary campaign of Nuclear Free America, to create Nuclear Free Zones around the world. Grouped by geographical area, the files in this series show how NFA worked with grassroots activists at each locality to advance this goal. In addition to correspondence with these activists and data sheets detailing the nature of the local campaign, these files include fundraising materials, promotional materials for the campaign such as event flyers, advertising posters, and petitions; local news and press coverage, including newspapers and clippings, letters to the editor, and editorials; text of proposed ordinances and resolutions; correspondence with local authorities; handwritten notes; literature from pronuclear organizations and individuals; city council agendas and minutes; minutes and related materials from partner organizations; speeches, and more. These document the organizing activities at the grassroots level and can be used to show how the presence of nuclear materials, waste, or energy production affected specific localities and communities.
Series 3 documents an important product of Nuclear Free America which was in high demand by activist groups for many years. The weapons-maker database compiled and cross-referenced numerous federal datasets to provide reports on the sources, materials, and makers of nuclear weapons in the United States. This database included Department of Defense and Department of Energy contracts for weapons systems and weapons systems support by contractor and parent company. These data were derived from the Federal Procurement Data Center’s Individual Contract Actions and Awards master file, and were combined with parent company data provided by Eagle Eye Publishers of Arlington, Virginia. Buyers of these data and reports, including individuals, organizations, and nonprofits, used them to prepare boycotts, educate consumers, and a variety of other legal and social uses. NFA published a top 100 and a top 50 nuclear weapons systems makers list annually, ranked by total contract amount from the U.S. government. Familiar corporations such as AT&T, Boeing, General Motors, General Electric, Ford Motor, Hewlett-Packard, Lockheed, and Westinghouse appear annually on each list ranked according to total amounts received. Materials include data sheets, correspondence with clients and data providers, a list of cross-reference codes, and compiled lists.
Series 4 compiles files on other Nuclear Free America projects, including those intended to increase public awareness of consumer links to the nuclear arms race and to provide people with simple ways of taking action against nuclear weapons contractors. The boycott of Morton Salt (whose parent company Morton Thiokol was the producer of solid rocket boosters for all U.S. nuclear weapons) was promoted through the media, direct mailings, and the efforts of hundreds of local campaigns, and was featured in the mainstream press via Newsweek, the Cleveland Plain Dealer, and several radio talk shows. The boycott lasted for several years and had a notable impact on the company. Other projects include the Nuclear Free Home Project, which marketed lightbulbs and smoke detectors made by non nuclear-affiliated companies and contained no radioactive material. Materials include project files, correspondence, promotional materials, budgets, and graphic design files.
Series 5 collects materials from a number of affiliated activist and social justice organizations both small and large. These include Concerned Citizens for Nuclear Safety, Greenpeace, International Peace Bureau, the Indigenous Environmental Network, Japan Council against Atomic and Hydrogen Bombs, NukeWatch, the Peace Boat, SANE/Freeze, and the World Information Service on Energy (WISE). Topics span a huge range of nuclear concerns, including waste disposal, power plant siting, construction, accidents, environmental protection, nonproliferation, disarmament, uranium mining, and international relations. Materials include newspapers, newsletters, white papers, flyers, brochures, conference papers, reports, and other ephemera. Many of the periodicals included are quite rare, as they were produced by small organizations with limited reach and a community focus; others are commonly available and produced by larger organizations with wider membership. Nuclear concerns are covered from many different angles, including legal, religious, and environmental directions.
Series 6 contains similar materials to those found in Series 5, but are arranged by subject focus. Flyers, brochures, pamphlets, newsclippings, and articles on a number of areas of concern are in this series. Files on the Hanford Site and the Trojan Nuclear Power Plant document Pacific Northwest issues, and more general files on topics such as pro-nuclear campaigns and economic justice show the breadth and depth of Nuclear Free America's concerns.
Series 7 is comprised of antinuclear ephemera, artifacts, and memorabilia collected by Nuclear Free America, including buttons, placards, posters, armbands, coffee mugs, stickers, and signs. Most are related to Nuclear Free Zones at various localities, but other national and international organizations represented include Bike for Peace and Movement de la Paix.
Includes stamps and bumper stickers.
Two coffee mugs, and a roof tile found at Nagasaki after the bomb.
This series contains VHS tape recordings of television productions and broadcasts related to nuclear issues. Notable items include an interview with spiritual leader Ram Dass in which he comments on nuclear free zones, as well as recordings related to tribal lands and nuclear activity.
This series consists of floppy disks (both 5.5 inch and 3.5 inch), CD-ROMs, data tapes, and other electronic formats used in the administration of Nuclear Free America. These records are unprocessed and unavailable to researchers.
The President's Office General Subject and Correspondence Files consist of microfilmed records documenting the administration and functioning of Oregon State University -- primarily during the 1950s and 1960s. These records were created and maintained by both the President’s Office and the Dean of Administration.
The records provide extensive documentation of the relationships with other colleges and universities, state and federal agencies, and associations and organizations. Records documenting the instruction and research programs of the University, student life, institutional services and administration, and the financial functioning of the institution comprise Series 2.
The functioning of the Oregon State System of Higher Education and the Oregon State Board of Higher Education and Oregon State University's role in that system are documented in Series 3.
Series 1 features 31 Sub-Series documenting the University’s and the President’s Office relationship with various organizations. Organizations include: the American Association of Land-Grant Colleges and Universities; the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges; the American Association of University Professors; the American Council of Education; the Northwest Association of Secondary and Higher Schools; the State of Oregon; the U.S. Government; the Western Interstate Commission of Higher Education; the Executive Committee; the Ford Foundation; and the National Science Foundation. Related subjects include: Colleges and Universities (e.g. Pacific Northwest Conference on the Arts and Sciences, Pacific Northwest Conference on Higher Education); Corvallis (e.g. Chambers of Commerce, College Fire Station); information, inquiries and requestions from or requested by various organizations; various groups related to communism; and departments (e.g. Pacific Power and Light, Ellis L. Phillips Foundation, The Oregonian).
Contract to Finance Farm Management Program in Thailand
Financed by the Kellogg Foundation
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 1 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Took place from October 9th thru 11th
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 1 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Boards and Commissions, Departments
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Series 2 features 47 Sub-Series documenting groups associated with, and topics relating to Oregon State College/University. These groups and topics include: University administration; the Agricultural Experiment Station; the Forest Experiment Station; the Federal Extension Service in association with Agriculture; Institutional Services; Instructional Services, both in general and in association with the Personnel Coordinator; Libraries and Museums; Instruction, both general and in association with Schools and the Lower Division; the Physical Plant; Student Life; University administration in association with Campus Events; the Distinguished Professor Award; the Experiment Station; the Computer Center; the Physical Plant relating to the construction of buildings; Research Centers and Institutes; miscellaneous Reference File Reports; and Staff.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 8 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 10 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 11 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 12 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 13 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 21 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 23 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 26 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 29 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 33 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 34 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 38 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 39 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder number added during data entry, as no number was assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 42 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 47 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
Series 3 features 14 Sub-Series that document the University’s involvement with the Oregon State Board and System of Higher Education. This involvement includes: Committees, such as the Academic Affairs and Building Committee; the Extension Division; general files on subjects such as the University of Oregon and Biennial Reports; General materials associated with the Oregon State System of Higher Education; institutions, such as Portland State College, Eastern Oregon State College (Eastern Oregon University), and Linn-Benton Community College; and the KOAC TV and Radio.
Reel-Folder numbers starting with 3 added during data entry, as no numbers were assigned in container list.
The Oregon State University Military Photographs Collection contains images of Oregon State military science and tactics cadets and officers from its beginning in 1873 through the 1960s. Many photographs are prints of images found in Oregon State publications such as the Beaver yearbook, Oregon Stater alumni magazine and the Barometer campus newspaper. The development of cadet uniforms and training can be seen throughout the collection. Images include views of campus buildings and locations during various eras. The collection contains prints and original negatives, glass negatives/positives (some hand colored), and instructional lantern slides of World War I vintage.
Subject matter features cadet formations on parade fields during military inspection day events, artillery, cavalry and engineering training scenes and casual snapshots. The collection includes a large group of glass negatives of early Oregon Agricultural College cadet corps circa 1870 through 1918. A glass lantern slide collection of instructional materials for Military Tactics courses includes images from World War One, with a focus on combat engineers. Numerous images of Ulysses Grant McAlexander are included in the collection. After WWI, the Oregon Agricultural College ROTC program expanded to include the new mechanized units developed in the Great War. Photographs from this period show the new cadet artillery batteries equipped with surplus US Army equipment. The annual inspection of cadets by dignitaries was a popular event during the college year and is well documented in the collection. Dignitaries that are depicted include Oregon Governors Charles Martin and Charles Sprague and Oregon State Presidents William Jasper Kerr, George Peavy, and A.L. Strand. The US Army ROTC Pershing Rifles are well represented with photographs of drill team competitions and awards during the 1960s. Stock U.S. Military photographs and college photographs from all eras are found in the series.


Photographs of OAC Cadets dating from 1875 up to 1917. Uniforms and weapons in transition are indicated in series. Campus buildings in background are of special note. US Army training Staff in photographs. Series includes prints and glass negatives of photographs appearing in various OAC publications.
Sub-series contains glass negatives and positives of OAC Cadets and OAC Band during the period prior to U.S. entry into World War One. Many of the negatives have been reproduced in period publications. Copies of photographs from these negatives are found elsewhere in collection.
Military Band in front of Education Hall (then Agriculture Hall) in 1915. The OAC Cadet Band is shown with instruments wearing the brimmed caps and canvas puttees of the 1910-1917 period. Good detail of facade of Education Hall. Ball Studio Photo, copy write 1915 does not show up on this glass plate. Also of note is a man standing to the far left of photo, he is not seen in any other prints or negatives of this image (This image has been reprinted and in various sizes throughout many OSU photo collections)
Stored in Oversize Glass Negative Box #5
Formation of a cadet companies in review. Possibly a photograph used in OAC publication such as Orange Yearbook or Oregon Stater. Uniforms are of the 1902-1908 pattern including canvas leggings and 1902 brimmed service caps. Of note is the elaborate corded lanyards as part of uniform, not found in other period scenes. Uniforms of this type were transitional between the old blue style and the change to WWI khaki.
Stored in Large Glass Negative Box #5
Military review day. Formation of cadets to the left of wide view photo is difficult to see detail. Automobile by cadets (possibly delivering dignitaries) is of circa 1915 vintage. Education Hall (Then Ag Hall) in background, Benton Hall is seen behind trees. Original Armory (Women's Gymnasium) is visible behind Education Hall. Group of spectators to the right of photograph indicates this event was probably the annual review of Cadet Corps by Military Department.
Large glass negative of the much used "OAC formation of cadets". Used first in the 1910-1911 OAC Catalog, the photo also shows up in the 1910 Orange Yearbook. The uniforms and instruments of the OAC band are in excellent detail. Houses and streets are in clear focus, showing fence lines and outhouses.
OAC Basketball team posed with seated coach. The team is holding a basketball with "Oregon Champs" written on it. A small child is standing with the coach wearing a uniform shirt with "O" on it.
Columns of OAC Cadet officers and companies on path adjacent to Agriculture building (now Strand Ag Building). Uniforms are Olive Drab tunics with canvas puttees and brimmed caps. Good detail of Ag building facade and housing in background.
Line of cadets laying in prone position with rifles, cadet officers with sabres behind. Location on campus is listed as "mid campus", circa 1910. Uniforms are Pre WWI with the brimmed caps and canvas puttees. Olive drab tunics on all cadets. Rifles are Krag-Jorgensen .30 of Spanish American War vintage. It is unclear whether this is a staged photograph or actual firing practice.
Formation of cadets and officers on lower campus (mid campus?) looking east. Court house and Congregational Church in background. Olive Drab uniforms with brimmed caps and canvas puttees.
Cadet Company in formation with rifles at shoulders aimed. Probably lower campus with large trees in background. Olive drab uniforms with brimmed caps and canvas puttees. Cadets have bayonet scabbards on their web belts. Rifles are the Spanish American War vintage Krag-Jorgenson bolt action .30 caliber.
Similar view to P002:364, a formation of cadets in line with rifles ready. Prone position firing and kneeling spotters behind formation. Campus location is listed as lower campus on this photo. Good detail of houses in background. Period uniforms dates scene to circa 1910.
Glass Positive, hand colored. Cadets in formation for review in parade field, lower campus. Agriculture Hall (Later Education Hall) in background. Benton Hall visible. A ditch with wood plank bridge is in foreground, found on other negatives in this series. Dating is after 1902 but before 1915 based on buildings and uniforms visible. Hand coloring is of note on this artifact.
Group of spectators with cadet officer in foreground. Original description lists Dr. Kerr in group, which is possible, but unconfirmed. Good detail of period clothing of civilians. Cadet officer is wearing brimmed cap with leather puttees. The leather puttees were issued to cavalry officers primarily.
Cadets demonstrating medical techniques, stretcher bearers, two man carry. Uniforms date photo to late 1880s to 1900. Standard forage caps are worn, blue uniforms with large chevrons and striped pants. Medical corps training was part of the Military curriculum during this period, with a dedicated medical unit training coming after the turn of the century. Building in background is undetermined, but style of stonework can be used for identification. Possibly could be the 1902 Agriculture Hall facade.
Military Band in front of Education Hall (then Agriculture Hall) in 1915. The OAC Cadet Band is shown with instruments wearing the brimmed caps and canvas puttees of the 1910-1917 period. Good detail of facade of Education Hall. Ball Studio Photo, copy write 1915.
Same view as the hand colored P002.371. Closer view, still showing bridge over ditch. Cadets in formation for review in parade field, lower campus. Agriculture Hall (Later Education Hall) in background. Benton Hall visible. A ditch with wood plank bridge is in foreground, found on other negatives in this series. Dating is after 1902 but before 1915 based on buildings and uniforms visible.
Good detail shot of cadet uniforms of the pre-WWI olive drab period. Brim caps and canvas puttees. Photo shows Company F guidon flags. Cadet officers with sabres. Houses on Monroe(?) in background.
Interior shot of armory, built in 1911. Uniforms of cadets indicate the circa 1915 period with brim caps. Good detail of structure in parade area of Armory.
Broad panoramic view of lower campus parade field. Formations of cadets in distance with Benton Hall to the side. Difficult to date photo based on uniforms due to lack of detail. Benton Hall possibly still in original brick (before 1899 stucco refurbishment) but detail is small. Circa date of turn of the century to early 1910s based on buildings visible in scene.
Military review day. Formation of cadets to the left of wide view photo is difficult to see detail. Automobile by cadets (possibly delivering dignitaries) is of circa 1915 vintage. Education Hall (Then Ag Hall) in background, Benton Hall is seen behind trees. Original Armory (Women's Gymnasium) is visible behind Education Hall. Group of spectators to the right of photograph indicates this event was probably the annual review of Cadet Corps by Military Department.
Detailed photograph of OAC Cadet Band, posed in two rows with instruments. Background of Education Hall is confirmed by arches and details. The OAC Cadet Band bass drum is posed to the right of group. The photo is not marked Ball Studio but is of the same vintage as others in collection. Early dating of the photo is based on brimmed caps and canvas puttees of uniforms.
Negative version of P002:366. Cadet Company in formation with rifles at shoulders aimed. Probably lower campus with large trees in background. Olive drab uniforms with brimmed caps and canvas puttees. Cadets have bayonet scabbards on their web belts. Rifles are the Spanish American War vintage Krag-Jorgenson bolt action .30 caliber.
Negative version of P002:400. Posed photograph in front of backdrop of OAC Officer Cadets. Identification of subjects based on "Alumni Files", with dating of 1898-1902 and a received date of 1960. The uniforms are of the circa 1900 vintage, including high collars and older style campaign hats. The print version has identification of subjects written in pen on reverse has been edited in red pencil. "Standing 1- (Blank), 2- Dr. Berges, 3. John Edwards 1902 class, 4 - (Blank), Sitting: 1- Alfred Saunders (Jake), 2- Grant Elgin. Note written later: #3, Standing, also identified as Major Frank Edwards, Dec. 1914."
Negative version of print in collection P002:383. OAC Cadet "Battalion" in box formation on parade field with rifles, dated May 1895. The caption on the most original of the prints states, "OAC Cadet Battalion - May 1895 Strut Column". The box formation shown can be dated back to Napoleonic Tactics (adaptation of ancient warfare formations). Still practiced in the late 19th to early 20th century infantry training. Uniforms are of the pattern 1892 sack coats with a variety of Forage Caps shown in the group. Most of the cadets are wearing the 1895 Forage cap, which was patterned after the contemporary caps worn by firemen and train conductors, and did not find favor with the troops. There are still a few cadets with the Civil War era looking Forage Cap pattern 1872. Rifles issued to the cadets were most probably the M1884 Rifle, .45 Caliber with the Buffington Rear Sight. Buildings in the background are notable, showing the carriage house and Mechanical Hall with the railroad spur (Corvallis and Eastern RR) still in place.
Negative version of print P002:177. Good detail photograph of cadets in formation on lower campus by administration building. Photograph is described on reverse as being 1898, notes about admin building steps. Original brick facade of Benton Hall is visible before the 1899 stucco refurbishing. Listed as page 159A, unknown publication. Cadets are in dress uniforms, showing large stripes on sleeves. OAC cadet band leading formation.
Line of cadet officers at parade rest with sabres. Columns of Benton Hall in background, stucco wall finish dates photo to after 1899. The uniforms in photo are of the pre-1908 style with soft campaign hat designs. Belted tunics with unexposed buttons. Possibly on graduation day waiting for commissioning.
Negative version of photo P002:386 (duplicate #) in series. OAC Cadets drilling on field on lower campus. Benton hall in background, water tank and smokestack of power plant (now Owens hall) behind. Good detail of Education Hall to the left of photo. Men are drilling with rifles held overhead, lead by Cadet officer with sabre.
OAC Cadet officers posing in rank with dress uniforms and sabres. Early 1900s uniform style with soft campaign hats and tunics with unexposed buttons. Cadets are possibly same group as P002:385. Photo is posed probably on lower campus by Benton Hall. Larger trees in background are visible in many period photographs of this area.
Formation of OAC Cadets in dress uniforms (Inspection day?). Old Armory (Women's Gym) in background. Good detail of buildings. Uniforms are of the turn of the century style with covered buttons and soft campaign hats. Officers with sabres, cadets in company formation with rifles.
Cadet formation at attention for inspection, circa 1895. Uniforms include forage caps of civil war style, large chevron stripes on sleeves. Cadets have older style Springfield Armory rifles with fixed bayonets. Of significant note with this image is the detail of Administration Building (now Benton Hall). Excellent detail of old east steps, no hands on clock and roof details. Clock tower has wrought iron(?) details on peak, possible lightning rod is visible. Further study of the details is warranted.
OAC Cadet companies on parade field during military review. Good detail of houses and churches on Jefferson Street in background. Uniforms are of the Pre WWI vintage with brimmed caps and puttees.
Cadets in review formation on lower campus with Benton Hall and windmills in background. Uniforms indicate Pre 1910 style with brimmed caps and high boots. Cadet officers with sabres. Company colors are in formation. Clock face painted on Benton Hall, brick facade.
Cadet officers in dress uniforms and sabres posing with early artillery piece. The muzzle loading cannons were replaced with more modern breech loaders after the turn of the century. Cadet uniforms include tunics with covered buttons, soft campaign hats and belts with square buckles. One cadet is holding a band instrument. Probably located on lower campus next to tree line. Uniforms indicate Spanish American war period.
Cadet formation in review on lower campus parade field. Benton Hall and Education Hall (Then known as Science Building, built in 1902) visible. Detail of cadets is too small to determine uniforms, but the formation appears to be the same as P002:392 circa 1905. Building details in background on this image are clear and can be used in dating scene.
Cadets in company formations with cadet band leading. View looking east toward the city of Corvallis, Jefferson Street in foreground. Uniforms indicate circa 1905 vintage with brimmed caps. Full contingent of OAC Cadets shown in this view, probably Military Review day.
Same view as the hand colored P002.371. Closer view, still showing bridge over ditch. Cadets in formation for review in parade field, lower campus. Agriculture Hall (Later Education Hall) in background. Benton Hall visible. A ditch with wood plank bridge is in foreground, found on other negatives in this series. Dating is after 1902 but before 1915 based on buildings and uniforms visible.
Cadets posed close to building (possibly Benton Hall) in dress uniforms, circa 1900. The emblems on the sleeves indicate US Army Signal Corps. The cadets are holding the company guidon colors. Uniforms include soft campaign hats and tunics with belts.
Posed photograph in front of backdrop of OAC Officer Cadets. Identification of subjects based on "Alumni Files", with dating of 1898-1902 and a received date of 1960. The uniforms are of the circa 1900 vintage, including high collars and older style campaign hats. The print version has identification of subjects written in pen on reverse has been edited in red pencil. "Standing 1- (Blank), 2- Dr. Berges, 3. John Edwards 1902 class, 4 - (Blank), Sitting: 1- Alfred Saunders (Jake), 2- Grant Elgin. Note written later: #3, Standing, also identified as Major Frank Edwards, Dec. 1914."
Image related to P002:400. Posed photograph in front of backdrop of OAC Officer Cadets. Identification based on "Alumni Files", with dating of 1898-1902 and a received date of 1960. The uniforms are of the circa 1900 vintage, including high collars and older style campaign hats. This image was done in the same studio as P002:400. Prints of this negative are in collection.
Negative related to version of photo P002:386 in series. OAC Cadets drilling on field on lower campus. Benton hall in background, water tank and smokestack of power plant (now Owens hall) behind. Good detail of Education Hall to the left of photo.
OAC Cadet band posed in chairs on lower campus with trees in background. Photograph is similar to Ball Studio version by Education Hall. Period uniforms include brimmed caps with puttees. OAC logo on bass drum in background.
Cadet formation in review on lower campus parade field. Benton Hall and Education Hall (Then known as Science Building, built in 1902) visible. Detail of cadets is too small to determine uniforms, but the image appears to be the same event as P002:392 circa 1905. Building details in background on this image are clear and can be used in dating scene.
Storage racks with rifles used by cadet corps in old armory (Women's Gymnasium). The rifles are Spanish American War vintage Krag Jorgensen .30 caliber bolt action. These weapons were issued prior to WWI. The racks also include areas to store bayonets and their scabbards. The columns and walls are probably the lower floor of the Women's Gymnasium used as an armory prior to the construction of the McAlexander Field House (Armory) in 1911.
Formation of cadet officers in dress tunics on lower campus by Benton Hall. Uniforms with brimmed caps and long trousers with covered buttons on tunics indicate a date prior to 1900. Brick facade on Benton Hall dates prior to renovations in 1899.
Cadets in company formation on lower campus. The rear of Education Hall (then Science Hall) is visible at right. Uniforms appear to be of circa 1900 vintage with belted tunics and soft campaign hats. Probably the full contingent of cadets in review.
Cadets in review formation on lower campus with Benton Hall (Brick Facade) in background. Uniforms indicate Pre 1910 style with brimmed caps and high boots. Cadet officers with sabres. Company colors are in formation. Clock face painted on Benton Hall, brick facade. Benton Hall (Administration Building) was renovated in 1899 with a stucco finish, this photo can be dated prior.
Glass Positive, hand colored. Cadets in company formations with cadet band leading. View looking east toward the city of Corvallis, Jefferson Street in left foreground. Uniforms indicate circa 1905 vintage with brimmed caps. Full contingent of OAC Cadets shown in this view, probably Military Review day.
Studio portrait of OAC Cadet officer, identified as Frank Edwards. Photo shows the 1900 era dress tunic with a web belt and dress service cap.
Studio portrait of OAC Cadet officer, identified as Frank Edwards. Photo is related to P002:411a, same studio and backgrounds. Edwards is seated in this pose with sabre out of scabbard. Photo shows the 1900 era dress tunic with a web belt and dress service cap.
Cadet color guard standing at attention with U.S. Flag and OAC flag. Location is listed as Armory. Possibly the main doors of the McAlexander Field House (then Armory) as built. The uniforms indicate a post 1910/pre WWI style with brimmed caps and puttees.
Wide angle photo of formations of cadets marching on campus. Possibly lower campus looking east with homes in background. Detail of photo is too small to identify cadet's uniforms. Photo was previously identified as 1904, this cannot be confirmed without dating the homes in the background.
Wide angle photo of formations of cadets with rifles performing military manoeuvres on campus. Possibly lower campus looking east with homes in background. Detail of photo is too small to identify cadet's uniforms. Photo was previously identified as 1904, this cannot be confirmed without dating the homes in the background.
Wide view of spectators viewing military inspection day. The negative is described with a date of 5/11/04, which is possible. Education Building (then Science Hall) is seen in background along with smoke stack of power plant.
OAC Cadet Band playing in formation with troops. Uniforms indicate Pre 1914 style. Education Hall (then Agricultural Hall) in background. The company formations of the cadets indicate a review day of some kind.
Cadets in line formation by company, probably military inspection day. Apperson Hall (then Mechanical Hall) in background. Photograph is identified with the date of 3/8/1904. Based on the uniforms visible and the buildings in background this dating is possible.
Good detail of cadets in formation at attention with rifles. The cadets appear to be in formation for review. Agriculture Hall and Waldo Hall are visible in background. Dating of uniforms is Pre WWI
Good detail of cadets in formation at attention with officers. The cadets appear to be in formation for review. Agriculture Hall and Waldo Hall are visible in background. Dating of uniforms is Pre WWI. Negative is related to P002:418, same position/different pose.
Cadets in line formation by company, probably military inspection day. Apperson Hall (then Mechanical Hall) in background. Lines of cadets in company formation indicates Inspection Day. Based on other photos of this grouping, dating of circa 1904 is probable.
Cadets in company formations on lower campus wide angle view. Based on other Glass Negatives in grouping, the dating is probably circa 1905. Looking east, good view of churches in background.
Companies of cadets marching in close order drill. Uniforms are of 1910-1914 vintage. Brimmed caps with puttees and probably olive drab tunics.
Glass Negative 5X7. OAC Cadet Band in formation with instruments. Uniforms appear to be special Band tunics with piping and braid. Small size of band at this point is of note. The brimmed caps are not the standard 1902 issue (crown not standing). Probably circa 1900 based on long trousers and tunics. Description of negative gives date of April 13, 1904 (unconfirmed).
OAC Cadet band in formation on lower campus with instruments. Posed photograph with cadets in parade rest position with instruments at ready. Uniforms of the cadets indicate the pre-olive drab tunics adopted in 1910, with forage type caps and long trousers. Date of photograph is based on archive sleeve for storage of negative.
OAC Cadet Band in formation with instruments. Uniforms appear to be special Band tunics with piping and braid. Small size of band at this point is of note. The brimmed caps are not the standard 1902 issue (crown not standing). Probably circa 1900 based on long trousers and tunics.
Company formation of cadets with rifles at right shoulder arms. Benton Hall and Paleo Building in background, looking north. The uniforms show brimmed forage caps with officers wearing 1898 style campaign hats. Possible dating of image is circa 1900.
Cadet officers posing for portrait below steps of Administration Building (Benton Hall). Uniforms show large chevrons on sleeves and forage caps. The image can be dated before 1899 renovation of Benton Hall (brick facade still visible).
Standard image of cadet formations on inspection day. Identified as 5/11/04, the uniforms reflect this dating with brimmed caps darker tunics. Photo was probably taken on the lower campus.
Military draft horses used to pull heavy wagons in review by cadets and officers. Good detail of the carriage house in background. Horses are dressed out with braided tails and mains for inspection. Cadet uniforms reflect brimmed field caps and high boots of the pre-WWI era. Photo is probably circa 1910. The artillery unit was not formed on OAC Campus until after WWI, but the college was issued muzzle loading field pieces for training purposes. Very clear and detailed focus on this vintage photograph.
Small published print of larger panorama photo. Photo is taken from print media, no identification of date. Handwriting on bottom of photo "The Military Review in front of the Grand Stand at the annual Military Tournament". Possible dating of photo to circa 1915 is unclear, other photographs of early 1920s vintage are similar.
Unconfirmed photo of President Kerr wearing topcoat. Photo of a group in grass field, unknown location. Officer standing with President Kerr wearing early military officers uniform. Jodhpurs pants with high boots, brim type cap. Rank undetermined. Dating unknown, Pre WWI.
Well detailed and clear image of cadets on parade field. Written on lower right, "O.A.C. Cadets on Dress Parade" Formations of cadets assembled on parade field. With the large area of field shown in photograph, this would indicate a early date, probably circa 1910. Uniforms and buildings in background are too small to use for dating.
Real Photo Postcard, Velox, diamonds in 4 corners dating card to 1901-1914. Company formation of OAC cadets of Company "B", 1st Battalion. Standard uniforms with high collars and field caps. High boots with early canvas puttees. Formation is at attention with officer in front with ceremonial sword. Dating between 1901-1914 puts this photo probably in the early 1910s based on uniforms. These formation photos of the units appear in the Beaver Yearbooks of the period, postcard probably produced from stock OAC photograph.
Cyannotype print, unknown vintage of print. Formation of cadets on field. Uniform vintage is 1890 or older, large stripes on sleeves and early brimmed forage caps.
Good detail photograph of cadets in formation on lower campus by administration building. Photograph is described on reverse as being 1898, notes about admin building steps. Listed as page 159A, unknown publication. Cadets are in dress uniforms, showing large stripes on sleeves. OAC cadet band leading formation. Benton Hall (then Administration Building) still has it's original brick facade which was renovated in 1899.
Mounted print. Formation of OAC Cadets with rifles/bayonets overhead. Officers with sabres around perimeter of formation. Benton Hall in background. Cadets are issued the Pre Spanish American War standard uniform from 1895 in dark blue with standard Forage Cap. Rifles are most likely Springfield 1873 Trapdoor single shot, black powder modified muskets. This was a standard issue during the Spanish American War before the more modern types were available. Clear detail in print, the label at bottom reads "OAC Cadets 1904" written in period fountain pen. Significant photo of the early 1900s use of the dark blue uniform.
Sepia print of the original image of the 1875 Corvallis College building with line of cadets in front. Identification on reverse in fountain pen "Old college building before wing was built, 1875. Military boys at drill under direction of Captain Boswell". Pencil notations along bottom of reverse "Newton Addison Thompson 6th from first end" (photo has a small X over this person). Also on bottom Right hand corner; "Eva Bailey - now Mrs. Jess Wiley with school bag, on way to school". Men do not have uniforms at this time, probably holding Civil War era long M1863 rifled muskets, surplus from the US Military. The building in the background is the original building that would become OAC. The college was originally located in downtown Corvallis on the block where City Hall and the Corvallis Moose Lodge are currently located. The first college building was a structure built in 1858 and added onto in 1876.
Contemporary print of the circa 1875 photo of the cadet corps in line by the original Corvallis College building. Men do not have uniforms at this time, probably holding Civil War era long M1863 Springfield rifled muskets, surplus from the US Military. The building in the background is the original building that would become OAC. The college was originally located in downtown Corvallis on the block where City Hall and the Corvallis Moose Lodge are currently located. The first college building was a structure built in 1858 and added onto in 1876.
This 5x7 reprint was probably used for an article in the Oregon Stater or the Barometer and was reprinted for that purpose. 2 copies are in file with same number.
OAC Cadet officers and commander of class of 1903-04. Group photo of cadet officers used in June 1904 Barometer (no names given in publication). Uniforms are of 1904 vintage, blue tunics with covered buttons, forage caps with cadet logos. Collar badges on cadets read OAC. Identification accompanies the photo on 2 small typed 3x5 papers. One side with 1903-04 Roster of Staff and Non-com staff, probably as listed in the OAC Catalog. The other page gives the names of the men in the photograph.
1st (row, seated) 1- Albert S. Wells, 2 - Meigs Bartmess, 3 - John W. Buster 2nd (row, seated) 1 - Albert S. Hall, 2 - Dave Hirstel, 3 - Maj. Charles B. Harden, 4 - Horace C. Brodie, 5 - Clarence W. Beaver 3rd (row, standing) 1 - John T. Witty, 2 - Cecil Staats, 3 - J. C. Clark, 4 - Teroah W. Scott, 5 - Ernst Hinrichs 4th (row, standing) 1 - Claude C. Cate, 2 - Claiborne L. Shepard, 3 - Chsester L. Proebstel, 4 - Alva O. Horton
Real photo postcard, AZO with 4 diamonds in corners, dating to 1904-1914. Post card of the Cadet Corps forming the letters OAC on parade field. Dated to 1911-12 year based on connection to H. J. G. (Gilkey) written in fountain pen lower right corder. H. J. Gilkey was Company "C" Commander, as listed in The Orange 1912 yearbook. Postcard is related to P002:292 which also has notation about Gilkey. Photograph used in various OAC publications during the era, found in yearbook, 1920 Military Instruction brochure and in later publications.
Real photo postcard, AZO with 4 diamonds in corners, dating to 1904-1914 style. Formation photo of Oregon Agricultural College cadets, identified as Company "C". Bottom of card has H. J. Gilkey identified with x, showing the commander. This photo is found in The Orange 1912 year book. H. J. Gilkey is listed as the Captain, company commander. Of note is the poor quality of printing of this card, the photograph is not centered correctly and tilts downward.
Military review day at OAC. Formations of cadets on parade field in company order of inspection. The print is very well detailed showing the size of the compliment of OAC cadets in training. Uniforms are of the 1902-1908 pattern including canvas leggings and 1902 brimmed service caps. Of note is the elaborate corded lanyards as part of uniform, not found in other period scenes. Rifles issued are the Model 1896 .30 Caliber Krag-Jorgensen Rifle. Uniforms of this type were transitional between the old blue style and the change to WWI olive drab.
Panoramic print stored in oversize box.
Panoramic print, sepia tone. Formation of a cadet company in review. Possibly a photograph used in OAC publication such as Orange Yearbook or Oregon Stater. Uniforms are of the 1902-1908 pattern including canvas leggings and 1902 brimmed service caps. Of note is the elaborate corded lanyards as part of uniform, not found in other period scenes. Rifles issued are the Model 1896 .30 Caliber Krag-Jorgensen Rifle based on the style of bolt action and side feeding magazine. Uniforms of this type were transitional between the old blue style and the change to WWI khaki.
Large style panoramic prints stored in separate box.
Period print, split in half. Larger print of the much used "OAC formation of cadets". Used first in the 1910-1911 OAC Catalog, the photo also shows up in the 1910 Orange Yearbook. Although this print is split in half and has some damage around edges, it is one of the more clear copies of the original. The uniforms and instruments of the OAC band are in excellent detail. Houses and streets are in clear focus, showing fence lines and outhouses.
OAC Cadet band in front of Education Hall (Old Science hall) led by Capt. Harry Beard. Ball Studio, Corvallis Ore, 1915. Very clear photograph of seated band with instruments. Detail of entrance circa 1915 to Education Hall.
Posed photo of 5 OAC Cadet officers in portrait studio photograph. Posed with sabres in dress tunics. Men have OAC collar badges and early style campaign hats. Listing of names is not on reverse of this copy, however, there is an original in file elsewhere with men's names. This period print was probably made for OAC publication.
OAC Cadet "Battalion" in box formation on parade field with rifles, dated May 1895. The caption on the most original of the prints states, "OAC Cadet Battalion - May 1895 Strut Column". The box formation shown can be dated back to Napoleonic Tactics (adaptation of ancient warfare formations). Still practiced in the late 19th to early 20th century infantry training. Uniforms are of the pattern 1892 sack coats with a variety of Forage Caps shown in the group. Most of the cadets are wearing the 1895 Forage cap, with a few cadets wearing the Civil War era Forage Cap pattern 1872. Rifles issued to the cadets were most probably the M1884 Rifle, .45 Caliber with the Buffington Rear Sight. Buildings in the background are notable, showing the carriage house and Mechanical Hall with the railroad spur (Corvallis and Eastern RR) still in place.
Mounted Print, titled, "OAC Cadet Battalion - May 1895 - Close Order Column of Companies". The uniforms are consistent with the 1890 period, showing the Forage Caps and sack coat patterns in blue. Formation of cadets with the Cadet Band on parade field appears to be an inspection event, with seated observers under tree in background. The print is stamped on reverse with "Ore. State University Archives". There is a handwritten note included in sleeve stating "Found in (with title page) 1893-4 Catalog". This would put the dating of this photograph in question based on the caption written on the front. The period uniforms and Benton Hall configuration are consistent with a circa date of 1895.
Print 8x10. OAC Cadets drilling on field on lower campus. Benton hall in background, water tank and smokestack of power plant (now Owens hall) behind. Good detail of Education Hall to the left of photo. Men are drilling with rifles held overhead, lead by Cadet officer with sabre.
Cadets in review in front of Benton Hall. Uniforms date prior to 1900, probably a similar circa 1895 formation photo. Longer rifled muskets of 1880s vintage. Uniforms include the older "forage cap" still in use dating to Civil War.
Posed photograph in front of backdrop of OAC Officer Cadets. Identification of subjects based on "Alumni Files", with dating of 1898-1902 and a received date of 1960. The uniforms are of the circa 1900 vintage, including high collars and older style campaign hats. The identification of subjects written in pen on reverse has been edited in red pencil. "Standing 1- (Blank), 2- Dr. Berges, 3. John Edwards 1902 class, 4 - (Blank), Sitting: 1- Alfred Saunders (Jake), 2- Grant Elgin. Note written later: #3, Standing, also identified as Major Frank Edwards, Dec. 1914."
Contemporary prints of early Cyannotype prints (2 each). OAC band in formation with instruments. Uniforms date to turn of the century with brimmed caps and blue tunics. Circa 1900 written on reverse.
Cyannotype print. Formation of OAC Cadets with rifles on lower campus with Benton Hall in background circa 1895. Paleontology Bldg (Built 1892, now Woman's center) to the right of Benton Hall. Men are wearing the standard blue tunics with brimmed caps. Rifles show the older type of bayonets, probably on Rifles of Pre Spanish American war vintage.
Cadet officers posing with sabres. Tunics have the large chevrons on sleeves denoting cadets rank. Previous description states "Booklet OAC Cadets 1908-09" this dating is probably incorrect. This photo is posed at the base of Benton Hall (then Administration Bldg) steps and the facade is still in original brick. Renovations in 1899 covered brick with stucco. Photo is probably dated circa 1895. Uniforms are vintage with brimmed caps with OAC badge. Officer's uniform shows rank on shoulderboards.
Posed photograph of cadet officers with the military commander below steps of Benton Hall. Uniforms of the mid 1890s vintage with forage caps and OAC badges. Photograph is probably a larger print of one published in the OAC Catalog. Good detail of the old brick facade of Benton Hall prior to the 1899 renovations.
Formation of OAC Cadets wearing the Pre 1893 Grey uniforms with civil war era forage caps. The uniforms of this period were of a Civil War vintage style, Grey in color based on the allegiance of the College President. Unknown date of photograph, mid 1880s is a good possibility based on the string of boxcars in background with the curved logo of the Corvallis and Eastern Railroad. Significant early photograph of OAC Cadet Corps.
Cadet company photograph, probably circa 1905. Cadets in standard uniforms with brimmed forage caps. Rifles appear to be the Krag Jorgensen type. The condition of the mount shows some staining and tears of mounting board. Photo is probably a larger print of a published photo in Beaver Yearbook.
OAC Cadet battalion marching in parade to honor Theodore Roosevelt in Portland Oregon. Good detail of city streets. Cadets are marching with rifles. Campaign hats are worn with uniforms.
Formation of a cadet company in review. Possibly a photograph used in OAC publication such as Orange Yearbook or Oregon Stater. Uniforms are of the 1902-1908 pattern including canvas leggings and 1902 brimmed service caps. Uniforms of this type were transitional between the old blue style and the change to WWI khaki.
Cadet column marching on lower campus with onlookers. The uniforms of the cadets indicate Pre WWI era. This is supported by the two women's clothes watching the formation pass. 2 copies of photograph, original is stamped with E.T. Reed, College Editor, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis Oregon. There is a postage stamp style sticker also for the Hicks Chatten Co. Photo Engravers, Portland Oregon.
Cadets in formation on lower field below Benton Hall. Real Photo Postcard. Based on the leggings and service caps, uniforms could be Pre WWI (era 1912-17) Dating information based on the Post Card is AZO w/4 corner triangles, dating to 1904-1918. Detail of formation shows a full regimental inspection, with entire cadet corps in attendance. This photo shows units on the lower field with Benton Hall in background.
Cadets marching into formation on lower field below Benton Hall. Related to P002:628 with completed regimental formation. Based on the leggings and service caps, uniforms could be Pre WWI (era 1912-17) Real Photo Postcard P002:590 is the final result of this cadet assembly. Dating information based on the Post Card is AZO w/4 corner triangles, dating to 1904-1918. Detail of formation shows a full regimental inspection, with entire cadet corps in attendance. This photo shows units marching into the field from the rear, forming up on the lower field with Benton Hall in background.
Cadets marching into formation on lower field below Benton Hall. Related to P002:628 with completed regimental formation. Based on the leggings and service caps, uniforms could be Pre WWI (era 1912-17) Real Photo Postcard P002:590 is the final result of this cadet assembly. Dating information based on the Post Card is AZO w/4 corner triangles, dating to 1904-1918. Detail of formation shows a full regimental inspection, with entire cadet corps in attendance. This photo shows units forming up on the lower field with Benton Hall in background.
Posed photo of OAC Cadet officer in portrait studio photograph. Posed with sabre in dress tunic. Rank epaulets of the circa 1900 era uniform. Cadet has OAC collar badges and early style campaign hat. Photograph is mounted in oval format with decoration around edge. Portrait was done at the Gardner Photography Studio in Corvallis, Oregon. This period print was probably made for OAC publication.
Cadet formation on lower campus showing 2 caisson/limbers. Uniforms of the 1900-1909 period with high collars of white shirts, early style campaign hats and shoulder epaulette rank insignias. Benton hall in background has been converted to stucco from the original brick, dating to later than 1899. Early style caissons are for ceremonial purposes/training with horse teams and not set up for artillery.
Smaller version of panoramic style photograph. Cadet regiment formation in dress uniforms and rifles, forage caps and high collar tunics, circa 1900-1909. Newly built Mechanical Hall in background. Smoke stack of plant now in Owen Hall behind Mechanical Hall building. Caption written in fountain pen: "OAC Cadets '05" Photograph can be attributed to Emery Photographers.
Two cadets in old style grey uniform under a tree with 3 young ladies. This style of grey uniform was in use up to 1892. Large chevron rank stripes on shoulders. Pencil notation on reverse: "1-15-62 Clyde Phillips states grey uniform worn until 1892 only Before 1900" Print is probably not of the 1885 vintage and was done at a later date.
Cadet formation with rifles at right shoulder arms with fixed bayonets. Uniforms of the turn of the century vintage with early style campaign hats. Rifles show the older type of bayonets, probably the Trapdoor Rifles of Pre Spanish American war vintage.
Mounted print of Cadet company with fixed bayonets. Brimmed service caps of the 1911 pattern with canvas leggings date the uniforms to between 1910-1915. The rifles issued are the M1898 Krag-Jorgensen bolt action of the Spanish American War vintage, they were the first rifles to mount a modern style knife bayonet. Very clear and detailed picture of weapons and uniforms.
Mounted print of cadet formation in dress uniforms/white gloves. At attention in review. Uniforms indicate c1910 with brimmed caps and canvas leggings. A poor quality print, showing some silvering at edges.
Staff officers and NCOs of the Regimental Corps of Cadets, Oregon Agricultural College. Probably before WWI, but after 1911 when the Armory was constructed. Seated in the center of the front row appears to be Colonel U.G. Mc Alexander, probably during his 1915-1916 period at OAC. Officers are seated in the front row, holding sabres, uniforms are of Pre WWI vintage with brimmed caps. The leather leggings were usually worn by officers. Photo is stamped on reverse with "Return to Room 222 Agricultural Hall, OAC Corvallis, ORE" and has a Barometer photo stamp, date to run 6/2 (with no year listed)
Company portrait for yearbook. Infantry company of OAC cadets posing for yearly photo. Men are holding the M1898 Krag-Jorgensen rifle (Spanish American War vintage). The uniforms are indicative of the Pre WWI era with brimmed service caps and canvas leggings. High collars are starting to show badges of specialty and OAC emblems. The two cadet officers seated at center of first row have the cavalry style leather leggings and ceremonial sabres. Clear photograph, possibly published in OAC yearbook.
Inspection of cadets in formation by cadet officers and Military officer. Leggings and service caps indicate a pre-WWI uniform style. Rifles are M1896 Krag-Jorgensen bolt action of Spanish American War vintage. Dating of circa 1915 is based on early style brim on service caps and canvas leggings. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus
Cadet officer with striped on sleeve of dress uniform walking with Army NCO assigned to OAC (both with great moustaches!) walking on pathway near Education Hall (then Science Building) Dating of circa 1915 is based on early style brim on service caps and canvas leggings. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus
Two Army officers walking with Education Hall in background. Uniform styles show the use of the dress blue tunic with covered buttons and high collars on one officer. Rank insignia on shoulder boards. Dating of circa 1915 is based on early style brim on service caps and leggings. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus
Informal group of officers conversing on parade field, probably inspection day. Dress uniforms with Blue tunics and yellow stripes on trousers are of the pre-WWI vintage. Service caps indicate a pre-WWI uniform style as well. Rifles are M1896 Krag-Jorgensen bolt action of Spanish American War vintage. Dating of circa 1915 is based on early style brim on service caps and canvas leggings. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus
Informal group of officers conversing on parade field, probably inspection day. Unidentified dignitary in overcoat and bowler hat may be Military Department representative. Dress uniforms with Blue tunics and yellow stripes on trousers are of the pre-WWI vintage. Service caps indicate a pre-WWI uniform style as well. Rifles are M1896 Krag-Jorgensen bolt action of Spanish American War vintage. Dating of circa 1915 is based on early style brim on service caps and canvas leggings. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus
Unidentified officer, wearing high collar tunic and overcoat with collar turned up. Rank insignia shows 2 vertical bars and 3 six pointed stars embroidered. Picture appears to be a published photo from book or lithographed print. Unknown origin, some foxing on edges with pin holes in corners.
Mounted print (lithograph?). Large portrait of Captain Woodbridge Geary, an Oregon Native who was killed in the Philippine Insurrection of 1899. The Army named a coastal gun battery on Corregidor Island after this war hero. Large portrait is done by E. W. Moore, no date. The List of Army Officers from 1779-1900 lists Geary with the following entry:
Geary, Woodbridge (Born in Ore. Appointed from Ore.) addl. 2nd Lieut of 19th Inf., 13 June 1882. 1st Lieut. 19th Inf., 20 Feb 1891., Capt. of Inf., 30 June 1898, Ass'd to 13th Inf., 1 Jan 1899. Died of wounds received in action in Philippine Islands, 11 Oct 1899. Reference file in Memorabilia Collection (MC) on Geary, with transcripts of OAC Barometer articles.
Print mounted on canvas. Period photograph of OAC's Spanish American War veterans, posed group of 34 men in period uniforms, c.1900. The June 1900 Barometer states that "At the outbreak of the late Spanish War, 48 of the cadets and graduates of the college shouldered the rifle to fight for the flag, and the then Commandant, Capt. Woodbridge Geary, and three of the students gave up their lives on their country's altar". Publication of the photograph is included in the Military section of the June 1900 Barometer. The June issues acted as sort of a yearbook prior to the beginning of "the Orange". Photograph is in poor condition, as transferred from the Horning Museum Collection in August 1996, with damage to the right side. Soldiers are all in period field uniforms, various unit badges are seen on the standard campaign hats. Description of item includes one identification of Harvey L. McAlister ("Pap Hayseed"). Photo does appear to be taken here in the United States, possibly Oregon, ivy and background vegetation does not appear to be tropical. Significant OAC artifact.
Photographs in this series are dated from 1916, before the U.S. entry into the war. Uniforms and training reflected the world wide conflict and are indicated in the photographs. SATC (Student Army Training Corps) and early ROTC cadets are featured. Navy ROTC had a presence on the OAC Campus during WWI and did not return until after WWII.
Sub-series contains glass negatives and positives of OAC cadets during WWI and post era (early 1920s) Series contains stock photographs found in OAC publications of the period. Photos include Cadets leaving for US Army service (1918) and training scenes taken just after WWI for use in promoting OAC ROTC Cadet program.
Oversize glass negative. General McAlexander in dress uniform with medals. Negative version often seen prints of the "Rock of the Marne".
First OAC Training Detachment in formation ready to leave for WWI, August 10, 1918. Ball Studio photograph. Formation of cadets wearing standard US Army uniforms of WWI. Campaign Hats issued with early style canvas puttees. Rifles are Krag-Jorgensen .30 cal. bolt action. Benton Hall and old bandstand in background.
Line of cadets in prone position with Krag-Jorgensen rifles. Training in rural field, barn and hills in background. Officers in rear giving orders. Uniforms are of WWI vintage including campaign hats and bedrolls over shoulders. Line of prone soldiers probably of company strength. Ball Studio photo.
Cadets training infantry tactics somewhere in rural Benton County. Panorama view of troops advancing up rolling hills, with cadets in foreground playing dead. Smoke from simulated explosions visible in photograph. Cadets are in full field dress with bedrolls and equipment, WWI uniform styles. Ball Studio photo.
Cadet formation in rain on east quad with Library (now Kidder Hall) and Shepard Hall in background. The SATC program only lasted one year and was replaced with ROTC after WWI. The uniforms are of WWI vintage, with overcoats and campaign hats. Rainy weather indicates fall or winter season. Library building was completed in 1918.
Mounted cadets in fatigue uniforms with campaign hats. Circa 1917 uniforms with some cadets wearing ties. The building in the background has a brick facade, possibly Langston Hall or Mechanical Hall. The cavalry units at OAC continued till WWII era.
Glass Positive, Hand Colored. Field artillery unit in transit in front of Waldo Hall. Six horse brace with caissons and limbers. The artillery piece in front of column is a "French" 75mm howitzer. These guns were issued at the end of WWI. Uniforms indicate olive drab style with campaign hats. Good detail of Waldo Hall in background.
Collection of glass lantern slides of various military subjects. Glass Lantern Slides 3x4. Used as educational aids in Military and Tactics classes at OAC during WWI and into the 1930s. Sub-series contains glass lantern slides of various subjects, military based content. Many slides are marked in lower left corner with "Signal Corps USA", the US Army logo for the information and photography divisions. Photographs are stock images from World War One in Europe, mostly France where the American Expeditionary Force (AEF) was assigned. The US involvement in WWI, April 1917 through November 1918 is represented in the images. Subjects covered in series include engineering, bridge building, railroads and trench construction.
Photograph of French Portland cement factory, probably related to engineer training. Lavocat & Co. plant, possibly in Neuchatel, Pas de Calais. This image was probably used for training of OAC Engineering cadets and illustrates one of the sources for building materials available in France during the period.
Loading docks with storage sheds of possibly French cement plant, related to P002:074. This location appears in later images and is noted as St. Sulpice, France.
Ground level view of main cement plant in France. Probably related to P002:074 of the Lavocat & Co., WWI Era France.
Additional view of loading docks and storage sheds with railroad spurs for shipping of French cement plant. The significance of these photos of the Lavocat & Co. Portland Cement plant is unknown. Lantern slides used for training of Engineer Battalion of OAC cadets is most probable description.
View of worker's barracks and storage sheds at Lavocat & Co. Portland Cement factory, France, WWI Era. Trucks with Army personnel in background.
Diagram of proper placement of sandbags to build a revetment. Trench warfare of WWI developed the use of earthworks and fortifications. Engineer battalion training aid. Glass Lantern slide marked "Gen. Combat #79".
Diagram of "Spider Wire Entanglement". Drawing showing the proper placement of barbed wire in front of trenches. Marked with "Gen. Combat No.77". Detail of drawing shows placement of wire fences and rolled barbed wire entanglements.
Photograph taken "near Harville Woods". Caption states: "showing 75-foot band of barbed wire entanglements". Of special note is the conditions of the battlefield, mud and more mud. Open area showing barbed wire placement in practice during WWI. Glass lantern slide is marked "Gen. Combat #83"
Battlefield photograph showing early tank traps, dating to late WWI. Caption on the photo reads: "Near Harville Woods, showing tank obstructions and mines. Shells 5.9" and 9.2" were used". The glass lantern slide is marked "General combat conditions no. 82".
Lantern slide is marked, "Trench reveted". Photograph shows walls of trench build up with woven branches, 7-8 feet tall. Soldier walking in trench for scale. Possibly a French officer wearing brimmed Kepi type hat. Lantern slide is marked "Gen. combat no. 85"
Battlefield photo of "Ammunition train caught on siding at loading point, by aerial bomb." Probably a late WWI photograph as aircraft were used for ground attack later in war. Destroyed railroad wagons are shown. Lantern slide is marked " Gen. Combat no. 87"
Open battlefield showing placement of barbed wire entanglements. Lantern slide is marked "General combat conditions no. 72"
Close up detail of barbed wire entanglements. Heavy steel cable running through barbed wire is possibly a tank trap. Lantern slide is marked "General Combat Conditions no. 71"
Barbed wire on battlefield, walls of trench in foreground. The placement of barbed wire entanglements was standardized later in WWI and this slide instructed cadets in practices of fortifications. By the end of the Great War, the use of trenches remained in the Military, however, never again would entire armies face each other in stalemate for years at a time. Lantern slide marked " Gen. Combat conditions no.74"
US Army "dough boy" firing M1903 Springfield rifle in snow covered trench. Soldier is wearing the standard British design steel helmet. Heavy overcoat and gloves with bedroll over shoulder. The trench is in a snow covered field.
Three US Soldiers in snow covered trench with rifles and fixed bayonets. Soldiers are wearing overcoats and gloves with British style helmets. Slide is instructional in how the design of trenches would be used.
Horse-drawn supply wagons with tarped load moves onto a bridge. Unknown location in Europe, probably France. Although trucks were in use for military transport at this time, horses still provided the bulk of the supply train transport. Soldier on bridge is wearing a garrison cap and cloth puttees.
Supply wagons on road with US Soldiers. Probably in France, horse-drawn supply wagons with covered loads are preparing to cross a stone bridge. Soldiers are wearing heavy overcoats and garrison caps.
Three US Army Signal Corps troops hooking wire up to building while two French soldiers look on. Probably somewhere in France, late WWI, soldier on ladder connecting communications wire to a building.
Horse-drawn caissons loaded with supplies moving through a small French (?) town. Troops marching with convoy appear to be French soldiers. Small boy looking on at left.
US Army engineers corps rebuilding bridge bents, probably somewhere in France. Soldiers are wearing standard British design steel helmets and have gas mask bags on chests. Bridge bents are being rebuilt out of timbers.
Light artillery piece with 3 man crew. Possibly a British design light field gun without wheeled carriage. Spotter with binoculars in heavy overcoat. Armor plate on gun indicates the later design of field pieces with protection for gun crews.
US Army personnel on motorcycles driving through small French town. Motorcycles are probably Indian or Harley Davidson manufacture. With the strategic value of motorcycles proven to the military,the War Department relied heavily upon Harley-Davidson following the entry of the United States into World War I. At war’s end, some 20,000 Harley-Davidson and Indian motorcycles had been used by the military.
Soldiers washing, fully clothed, in a small creek, unknown location (France?) Men are washing their boots and hands, probably to get the mud of the trenches off their uniforms.
A battery of US Army artillery corps with French design 75mm artillery pieces. Location unknown, heavy snow, dated to winter 1918. The US Military used the French and British cannons both in Europe during WWI and later in training at home. This type of artillery piece was assigned to OAC Artillery Battalion beginning in 1920.
Single US Soldier wearing British style steel helmet with gas mask bag on chest. Man is standing in the doorway of a bunker in the trenches, probably France. Rifle is the M1903 Springfield.
Three US Army soldiers in trenches, somewhere in France. Men are wearing the British design steel helmets. Standard issue web gear with bayonets and ammunition pouches for rifles.
Three US Army infantrymen wearing gas masks in trenches. Men have the standard issue gas masks with steel helmets. Doorway of bunker and trench are visible.
Four US Army infantrymen wearing gas masks crank alarm siren. Ruins of old building in background, trench appears to be newly excavated.
This glass lantern slide is of a later date than the rest in sub series. Corvallis and Vicinity special map. "Compiled by the Engineers Unit, ROTC Oregon State College, from aerial photographs and USGS maps 1938" This training aid is from a much later date than the WWI era lantern slides. The map further is dated by "29th Engineer Battalion Reproduction Plant, Portland, Oreg. 1941". The lantern slides in this sub series must have still been in use up to the beginning of WWII.
This glass lantern slide is of a later date than the rest in sub series. Corvallis and Vicinity special map. "Compiled by the Engineers Unit, ROTC Oregon State College, from aerial photographs and USGS maps 1938" This training aid is from a much later date than the WWI era lantern slides. The map further is dated by "29th Engineer Battalion Reproduction Plant, Portland, Oreg. 1941". The lantern slides in this sub series must have still been in use up to the beginning of WWII. Section 2 of larger map.
This glass lantern slide is of a later date than the rest in sub series. Corvallis and Vicinity special map. "Compiled by the Engineers Unit, ROTC Oregon State College, from aerial photographs and USGS maps 1938" This training aid is from a much later date than the WWI era lantern slides. The map further is dated by "29th Engineer Battalion Reproduction Plant, Portland, Oreg. 1941". The lantern slides in this sub series must have still been in use up to the beginning of WWII. Map section 3.
This glass lantern slide is of a later date than the rest in sub series. Corvallis and Vicinity special map. "Compiled by the Engineers Unit, ROTC Oregon State College, from aerial photographs and USGS maps 1938" This training aid is from a much later date than the WWI era lantern slides. The map further is dated by "29th Engineer Battalion Reproduction Plant, Portland, Oreg. 1941". The lantern slides in this sub series must have still been in use up to the beginning of WWII. Section 4 of map.
Column of troops and horse-drawn caissons with artillery. Weapons are probably the French design 75mm Cannons. Unknown location, possibly winter 1918.
Large formation of US Army troops marching in review past US Officer and possibly French General, who is saluting. Regiment sized grouping of soldiers, with their regimental dog marching with the lead company.
Soldiers forming bucket brigade, filling pumper. Hose held by other men to right of photo. Unknown location, probably Europe.
General John J. Pershing and two unidentified men reviewing formation of US Army troops somewhere in Europe. Officer to the far left appears to be a high ranking British Naval officer. Troops are wearing campaign hats and standard leggings. All are standing at attention with rifles.
Informal grouping of soldiers being filmed by a motion picture camera, unknown location during WWI. Camera man has large box film camera set up on wooden tripod.
General John J. "Blackjack" Pershing standing with unidentified dignitary. Location unknown, possibly on wooden docks. Unknown civilian wearing top coat and bowler hat. General Pershing is wearing standard heavy overcoat and ceremonial spurs on his high top boots.
Unidentified US Army Sergeant with medal (Distinguished Service Cross?) standing with German prisoner. German is wearing the standard field grey greatcoat with the service cap with cockade. Unknown location, probably front lines in France.
Informal grouping of US Army soldiers standing near bunker. Men are wearing the standard British design steel helmet and all have gas mask bags strapped to their uniform chests. Unknown location, fortifications appear to be around a building.
Company sized formation of US Army troops marching through a European town, probably in France. Men are wearing campaign hats and have heavy overcoats and gloves.
Small European town, probably France, dirt streets. US Army troops are informally walking in streets. One man is standing by an automobile.
Photo of a pontoon bridge with two caissons loaded with sandbags for weight testing. Caption of photo, "Intermediate bridge. Two loads of 7 tons each". Wide river, location unknown.
US Army Engineer with surveying equipment on tripod. Soldier had a pipe in his mouth and is wearing garrison cap. Unknown location, probably illustrating the use of surveying techniques.
Political Cartoon, Spanish Revolution, published in Glasgow Evening News. Cartoon shows a Toreador "Alfonso" (King of Spain, overthrown in coup 1923) and the bull "Revolution". Significance of this cartoon as a training aid for ROTC Cadets is unclear. Probable dating to the mid 1920s.
A series of photos of construction projects, probably an Engineer Corps training aid. This photo is marked "St. Sulpice, Fr" and "General View of construction and yards" The group of slides are marked as "general Construction" and numbered. Of special note is the use of German prisoners of war for construction. The men unloading lumber from the European RR style flatcar are wearing German field caps. To the far left of photo is a US Army Soldier with his rifle (Guard?).
Bombed out building in French city of Cunel. Probably a stock US Signal Corps photo or perhaps a postcard turned into a lantern slide. The devastation of cities during WWI is shown in this slide, the new concept of total war, which did not spare the civilian populations is evident in only a few of the lantern slide collection.
Construction of framework for what appears to be an aircraft hanger, somewhere in France. In the distance, a large building with large open doors could have a row of aircraft in field by it. The slide is marked "General Const. No.65". Engineer corps training aid.
Unknown location of equipment, construction scene. Four steam locomotive boilers without engineer's cabs built into a structure. Bells and steam domes of locomotives are visible, possibly used for stationary boilers for a factory. Locomotive boilers are only visible from about mid point and above, with solid flooring around them. Marked "M----33."
Bombed out railroad bridge/right of way with soldiers and supply wagons underneath. The remains of a railroad bridge with only the railroad tracks hanging in mid air are shown with soldiers and wagon underneath. Marked "M.40 (3778-242)"
Ruins of a French (?) town with US Army cargo trucks on street. In the distance on a hillside, a large convoy of trucks can be seen lined up on a small road. Vehicles are probably US "Liberty" trucks, with Army personnel seen in the village. Marked "M.-39 (3193-168)"
Large open shed with rigging to hang canvas covers or tents for drying. The open shed is 40 approximately 40 feet high with pulley rigging to hang items to be dried. Women workers with brooms in foreground. One US Military soldier in picture on left. Unknown materials hanging in shed, possibly tent covers or material to be used for balloons(?). Building to the far right appears to be some type of hanger, aviation related. Marked "C.-31 (3193-79)"
Some type of storage area, with camouflage netting over piles of materials. One US Soldier with garrison cap in photo. Unknown items in the storage, but they did need to be camouflaged from the air. Training in camouflage techniques is possible use of this lantern slide. Marked: "C.-30 (3193-78)
"Pontoon bridge across Rhine, open, with boats passing through, December 18, 1918" Photo shows a paddle wheel steamer on river with other boats following, bridge in background. Dating of the photo is listed in caption of lantern slide. Other slides of this bridge are marked with the location in Coblenz, Germany. Marked: "H.P.B. No.61"
Group of US Army Engineers man-handling a large (25 foot) boat like structure, probably a pontoon for a bridge. A second pontoon is at far right upside down. Marked: "H.P.B. -66 (3193-91)"
Slide captioned: "Shipment of Pontoon Equipment made from Engineer Depot, Vancouver Barracks, Washington, May 1918". Wagons with beams and lumber sitting on a standard US railroad flatcar, truss rod type. C & NW (Chicago and North Western Railroad). Marked: "Heavy Pontoon Bridges No.55"
Slide caption: "Flood approach to pontoon(sic) bridge across Rhine, Coblenz, December 31, 1918". This bridge was a permanent structure from 1819-1945, where a ferry boat runs today. This slide is probably for use with Engineer cadet training. Marked: "H.P.B. No.60"
US Army Engineers laying rail for a narrow gauge line in Europe, probably France. The rail being used is of a light weight type, the narrow gauge railroad equipment not being as heavy. Marked: "R.N.G. _23 (3193-142)
US Soldiers loading wagon load of pontoon bridge equipment onto a rail car. Loading for shipment is probably at Vancouver Barracks, Washington as seen in other slides. The gondola car being loaded is a US railroad type. Marked: "L.P.B. 35 (3820-71)"
Line of wagons with Pontoon bridge equipment with US Army engineers. Probably in Europe, on the way to being built. The soldiers are in work uniforms, wearing campaign hats. Of note is the use of horse drawn wagons to haul heavy pontoon bridge materials.
US Railroad flatcar, truss rod type, Lehigh Valley Railroad, with a load of wagons, probably part of the Pontoon Bridge equipment section. Two wagons loaded onto a 40 foot flatcar, being shipped to the debarkation port to be used in WWI. Marked: "L.P.B. 37 (3820-73)"
Soldiers setting the 2 foot gauge for rails. The small narrow gauge railroad was used to move supplies and men in France, late WWI. The smaller equipment and locomotives needed for this narrow gauge railroad was easy and quick to build. At the end of the war, all of the equipment was abandoned in place. Marked: "R.N.G.--24 (3193-143)"
US Army Engineers working on railroad tracks somewhere in France, late WWI. The soldiers can be seen shoveling ballast into the completed tracks. Small railroad equipment was used to move supplies and manpower in France, late war, 1918. Marked: "R.N.G. - 22 (3193-141)"
The completed narrow gauge railroad used to haul supplies and men in France, late WWI. The flatcars are loaded with crated supplies and are being pulled by a US Army narrow gauge steam locomotive. The loco is probably the standard 2-6-2 Saddle Tank Type, common in photographs of US Army locomotives of WWI. Marked: "R.N.G. 21 (3193-140)"
Water supply station in the field. Photo showing two hanging water tanks on a frame, probably in France. Marked: "Water Supply no.31"
Slide caption "Cart and Tank Truck filling station at Avocourt supplied from 1350 gallon steel tank in tower filled by gasoline-pump unit pumping from spring: showing paved turnout 1343-14" Slide is marked "Water Supply No.34"
Pump house with two water tanks, horses drinking underneath. Horses have blankets and are attended by US soldier. Marked: "Water Supply No. 27"
Slide caption: "Tank filling station with concrete horse trough, Boucq." Location in France, probably Northern area near front lines, town of Boucq. Marked: "Water Supply no.39"
Caption of slide: "Side view of Mobile purification truck - "Sterilab". Showing pumping and filtering equipment in rear with laboratory space in front." Unique piece of US Army Engineer Corps equipment. Shown on city street, unknown location. Marked: "Water supply No.38"
slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n66"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n59"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n61"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n62"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n64"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became a necessity. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n60"
Slide group showing different types of searchlights, mounted on trucks and wagon carts. Although not new technology to WWI, the use of searchlights to spot incoming enemy aircraft was a new tactic. German heavy bombers and airships were able to penetrate deep into France (Target Paris) and over the channel to England (Target London) and the use of large searchlights became commonplace. This group of slides shows the large lights used in WWI. Slide Marked: "Searchlights n68"
Diagram of standard machine gun emplacement in trenches. Shown with sizes of openings and walkways. Marked: "F.F.37"
Men in trench training with unknown weapons. Uniforms are standard issue with campaign hats. Tents in background suggest a stateside training base. Marked: "F.F. 32"
Sandbag reinforced trench design, possibly at training base stateside. Barracks and tents in background suggest a stateside training base. Marked "F.F. 40"
Temporary foot bridge constructed by US Army Engineers, somewhere in France, late 1918. Photograph shows 2 sections of bridge needing repair, possibly from battle damage. The slide is marked with the "Bridge Construction no. 33" but in faint pencil on the label is written "Boche 4hrs". This notation has no explanation, but possibly could be that the Germans ("boche") had damaged the bridge and it was repaired in 4 hours.
Line drawing of the "Portable Road Bridge 60'0" Span Class A Erection Diagram". Slide shows the complete specifications for the bridge with instructions about winches and timber derricks for building. How block and tackle was to be set up with specifications on size of wire rope and dimensions of pilings is given. Marked: "Bridge Construction No. 38" .
Mule drawn wagon with supplies crossing a temporary wood bridge, somewhere in France, 1918. The supply column (also known as "train") can be seen on far bank of river. US Soldier leading the mule team is wearing British style steel helmet. Of note is the rifle scabbard attached to the saddle on the mule team. Marked: "Bridge Construction No. 35"
Section of old stone arch bridge being repaired by US Army Engineers. Bombed out section has been rebuilt with timber construction. Soldiers are seen on top of repaired section. Probably France, late 1918. Marked: "Bridge Construction No.40".
US Army Engineers repairing a destroyed bridge with new heavy timber construction. Heavily bombed out buildings in background, showing the devastation of French towns on the front lines. Soldiers are wearing British design steel helmets and web gear. Probably somewhere in France, late 1918. Marked: "Bridge Construction No. 46".
Simple construction of foot bridge, temporary structure. Slide caption: "1-4 Foot bridge #13 291.5-86-2 Buzancy Sheet 10-29-18 Aire River 303 Eng". Bridge constructed by the 303rd Engineering battalion, the nomenclature is possibly a standardized design number for temporary foot bridges. Marked: "F.B. No.47".
Simple construction of foot bridge, temporary structure. Slide caption: "17 - 303rd Engrs Foot Bridge #5 294.9-85.3 Buzancy Sheet Aire R. 11-6-18". Bridge constructed by the 303rd Engineering battalion, the nomenclature is possibly a standardized design number for temporary foot bridges. Marked: "F.B. No.44"
Temporary foot bridge built by US Army Engineers, France, 1918. Caption of slide: "1-8 Foot Bridge #17 291.25-85.9 Buzancy Sheet, 10-29-18 Aire R. 303 Eng." Marked: "F.B. No. 49".
Temporary foot bridge built by US Army Engineers, France 1918. Caption of slide: "1-9 Foot Bridge #23 289-8 285.5 Vouziers Sheet 10-29-18 Aire R. 303 Eng." Marked F.B. No.46".
Temporary foot bridge built by US Army Engineers, France 1918. Caption of slide: "1-7 Foot Bridge #16 291.2-85.05 Buzancy Sheet 10-29-18 Aire R. 303 Eng." Marked F.B. No.48".
Duplicate slide of P002:091 Supply wagons on road with US Soldiers. Probably in France, horse-drawn supply wagons with covered loads are preparing to cross a stone bridge. Soldiers are wearing heavy overcoats and garrison caps.
Duplicate of slide P002:096. US Army personnel on motorcycles driving through small French town. Motorcycles are probably Indian or Harley Davidson manufacture. With the strategic value of motorcycles proven to the military,the War Department relied heavily upon Harley-Davidson following the entry of the United States into World War I. At war’s end, some 20,000 Harley-Davidson and Indian motorcycles had been used by the military.
US Army railroad personnel inspecting a French steam locomotive. Soldiers are working on the running gear of this large 2-8-0 style steam engine. Officers appear to be looking on at right. In the engine's cab are two men, probably French engineer and fireman wearing civilian company uniforms with brimmed caps. The markings of the French Railroad have been painted over and "USA" is stenciled below. Steam engine appears to be a standard freight hauling engine of the era. Marked: "R.R. Sta. Gauge No.16" This denotes the standard gauge railroad equipment (4 feet, 8 1/2" wide) as opposed to the smaller 2 foot gauge used.
US Soldiers playing the American pass-time, somewhere in France. Men playing baseball are wearing their uniforms with campaign hats and leggings. Catcher has face mask and chest protector equipment. .
US Army standard FWD truck loaded onto a French Railroad flatcar, with soldiers looking on. The truck is he F.W.D. Model B, built by the Four Wheel Drive Co. of Clintonville, Wisconsin, this was a four-wheel drive vehicle. Rated as a 3-tonner, the F. W.D. had a Wisconsin four-cylinder petrol engine with a three-speed gearbox and a two¬speed transfer gearbox. There was a shaft drive to each axle. On roads the F.W.D. was driven as a normal rear-wheel drive vehicle, but for off road driving an additional gear lever was provided on the chassis side which controlled the low gears and connected up the drive to the front axle. Slide is marked: R.S.G. no.14" The RSG indicates Railroad Standard Gauge. .
Soldiers digging a right of way for railroad in forest, somewhere in France. Based on the label of the slide, "R.R. Sta. Gauge No.13", this excavation must be for a roadbed for trackage. Soldiers are wearing a variety of uniform pieces, including garrison caps and steel helmets. Some men have the gas mask canvas bag worn on their chests.
Soldiers erecting camouflage netting on short poles in field. The structure is temporary, poles appear to be tree branches. There is nothing under the netting, probably to camouflage supplies later. Soldiers are wearing field gear with helmets. One soldier is standing guard with rifle. Marked: "D.C. & M. 36".
Photo of twisted metal in field, possibly exploded shell casings. Unknown location or purpose of photograph. Metal appears to be torn and twisted, but they are the casings of the shells and not the projectile. Marked: "D.C. & M.36".
The category of the slide is camouflage, which is evident by the netting over the road. The caption is more descriptive of the importance of the image, "Verdun Etain road, returning allied prisoners, November 25,1918" Almost two weeks after the Armistice, the repatriation of prisoners on both sides was a slow process. Soldiers are marching in formation on the open road, no vehicles in sight. The road is lined on both sides by camouflaged fencing and large camouflage nets are strung at intervals in the trees lining the lane. Marked "Camouflage No.28".
Sawmill operations in France, manned by US Soldiers. Overall view of sawmill building and log piles. Of note is a small, narrow gauge locomotive pulling two cars with logs. The engine is not a steam locomotive, and is probably a very early type powered by a gasoline engine. Four tall smokestacks at rear of facility, probably for boilers to operate the steam powered machinery in sawmill. Marked: "Forestry No.2".
US Soldiers moving a large tree with a wheeled carrier and horses. Logging operations with US Soldiers in France. US Army personnel are working with civilians to move a large log. In background are standard gauge railroad cars, waiting to be loaded. Glass lantern slide is damaged on right with black scorching from heat. Marked: "Forestry No. 3" .
US Army Engineers working on roadbed, somewhere in France during WWI. Men working with hand tools to repair ruts in dirt road. Four men working with a collection of others looking on. Truck on road in background is the FWD type cargo truck. Marked: "Highway Const. 62 Set 1".
US Army Engineers repairing damage to road made by a mine. Very large crater is being hand filled and leveled by soldiers. The caption on slide reads: "Repairing road mine crater, 12 November 1918" Of special note is the date, one day after signing of the armistice, peace had been declared, no celebration for these dough boys, just more back breaking work as Army Engineers. Marked: "Highway const No. 58".
US Army 101st Engineers repairing road in France, 12 November 1918. One day after the end of WWI, no celebration for these dough boys, more work for them repairing war damaged roads. Crates of materials on side of road. Marked: "Highway construction No57".
Diagram of two types of road construction used by US Army Engineers. Single-way Macadam Road, showing drainage ditches and depth of grading materials. Figure 2 shows plans for widening an existing roadway. Plans show adding 4" to 9" of wearing surface to tops of roadways. Marked: "Highway Construction No.53".
US Army Engineers training diagram of roadway construction using wood planks. Fig.4 shows an 18 foot wide roadbed cross section. Fig. 5 is a cross section of a shell hole. This is to instruct Engineers on methods used to repair bomb craters in roadways. Fig. 6 is the completed repair showing a base of sandbags and material added to fill in crater. Marked: "Highway Construction no. 54".
Photo showing the Highway (actually dirt road with ruts) from Malancourt, France. Road leads off into the distance where a pair of military trucks can be seen. Marked: "Highway construction No.60".
Crew of US Army Engineers pulling down a brick wall in a bombed out building. Ropes are attached to the crumbling wall and 2 groups of approximately 20 men each are pulling down the wall. Men are all wearing their steel helmets, which appears to be an excellent idea at the time. Marked "Highway construction 61 set 1".
US Soldiers walking through a bombed out French village. The main topic of the slide appears to be the road in the town, which is little more than a muddy trail. Destruction of the buildings in the background shows the effect of total war on civilians in Europe during WWI. Marked: "Highway constn 63, set 1".
Photos in sub series show scenes of OAC Company K formations leaving on trains for WWI. photographs can be dated between Summer 1917 and Fall 1918 based on entries in the 1919 Oregon Beaver Yearbook which has a section specially dedicated to OAC Cadets serving "Over There". The company is marching to the railroad station on sixth street, most likely a Southern Pacific dedicated troop train. Series of photographs include crowds saying goodbye to the OAC cadets as they leave for training.
Second photograph of citizens sending off OAC Company K to duty in WWI with train in distance. Related to P002:193, photo shows crowd breaking up as train leaves in the background. The destination for the cadets is unclear, probably training bases stateside before being transferred to France. Dating of photograph is between Summer 1917 and Fall 1918 based on entries in the 1919 Oregon Beaver Yearbook which has a section specially dedicated to OAC Cadets serving "Over There". Stamped on reverse top right with Oregon Agricultural College Library.
Formation of OSC Cadets marching on Corvallis Street. Previous description states Company K leaving for WWI. P002:191 and 192 show cadets marching with blanket rolls over their shoulders and the standard issue campaign hats. Men are being escorted by citizens, with many onlookers curbside. The destination for the cadets is unclear, probably training bases stateside before being transferred to France. Dating of photograph is between Summer 1917 and Fall 1918 based on entries in the 1919 Oregon Beaver Yearbook which has a section specially dedicated to OAC Cadets serving "Over There". Stamped on reverse top right with Oregon Agricultural College Library.
Enlargement of formation of OAC cadets leaving for WWI. Formation of OSC Cadets marching on Corvallis Street. Previous description states Company K leaving for WWI. P002:191 and 192 show cadets marching with blanket rolls over their shoulders and the standard issue campaign hats. Men are being escorted by citizens, with many onlookers curbside. The destination for the cadets is unclear, probably training bases stateside before being transferred to France. Dating of photograph is between Summer 1917 and Fall 1918 based on entries in the 1919 Oregon Beaver Yearbook which has a section specially dedicated to OAC Cadets serving "Over There". Stamped on reverse top right with Oregon Agricultural College Library.
Group of citizens attending send off for the OAC Company K cadets for duty in WWI. Photo shows train about to depart from station. The destination for the cadets is unclear, probably training bases stateside before being transferred to France. Dating of photograph is between Summer 1917 and Fall 1918 based on entries in the 1919 Oregon Beaver Yearbook which has a section specially dedicated to OAC Cadets serving "Over There". Stamped on reverse top right with Oregon Agricultural College Library.
Cadet band playing for departing OAC trainees. Probably the departure of Company K as referenced in others in sub series. Citizens looking on, OAC Cadet band playing in foreground. Railroad passenger cars are of the WWI era heavy steel construction style.
Corvallis citizens saying goodbye to OAC Cadet Company on train. Cadets can be seen hanging out of windows. Probably the departure of Company K as referenced in others in sub series. Citizens looking on, OAC Cadet band playing in foreground. Railroad passenger cars are of the WWI era heavy steel construction style.
Corvallis citizens saying goodbye to departing Cadet troops. Cadets are wearing campaign hats with over the shoulder bedrolls. Probably the departure of Company K as referenced in others in sub series. Citizens looking on, line of troops walking next to railroad passenger cars. Railroad passenger cars are of the WWI era heavy steel construction style.
Major General Ulysses Grant McAlexander photograph sub series. Born 30 August 1864 at Dundas, Minnesota and graduated from West Point in 1887. Military hero known as the Rock of the Marne, McAlexander served as Commandant of Cadets at Oregon Agricultural College from 1907 to 1911 and again from 1915 to 1916. McAlexander retired from the Army in 1924 and chose Newport, Oregon as his home. Oregon State Agricultural College conferred an honorary doctorate upon him in 1930. He was an unsuccessful candidate in the 1934 Republican gubernatorial primary election. McAlexander died at his home in Portland, Oregon, on 18 September 1936 and was buried in the Arlington National Cemetery. Many of the photographs in this sub series are large portraits, most probably displayed in ROTC Armory and campus buildings.
General Ulysses Grant McAlexander in full dress uniform, circa 1920. Medals on uniform are from US Army service. This photo appears to be a portrait photo that appears in the Beaver Yearbook 1920 edition. Full dress uniform includes gilt on brim of hat denoting General rank. Copy of larger print (5X7) is located in Box #1, Sub Series 2d folder, full size portrait (12X19) is stored in oversize Box #4
General Ulysses Grant McAlexander in full dress uniform, circa 1920. Medals on uniform are from US Army service. This photo appears to be a portrait photo that appears in the Beaver Yearbook 1920 edition. Full dress uniform includes gilt on brim of hat denoting General rank. Medals are in large enough detail to determine origin. 2nd from right is the Philippine Insurrection 1899, 3rd from Right is War with Spain 1898 medal. The Distinguished Army Cross is the far left medal, highest, "close to heart"
Portrait photo of Mrs. U. G. McAlexander, wife of General McAlexander. Posed, seated portrait of circa 1920 vintage. Marked on reverse in fountain pen.
Portrait photo print of Mrs. U. G. McAlexander, wife of General McAlexander (Grace R. Palmer). Posed, seated portrait of circa 1920 vintage. Marked on reverse in fountain pen.
Brigadier General Ulysses Grant McAlexander in Bernkastel-Cues, Germany, ca. 1924. McAlexander returned to Europe several times after the end of World War I, including twice to be presented with commendations. In April 1919 he received the La Croce al Merito di Guerra from the Italian government, and in April 1924 he received the Croix de Guerre from the Republic of France. Photo shows standard uniform with high collar prior to the newer issue rolled collar with lapels in 1925. Garrison cap with general star rank also seen on overcoat sleeve. Photograph by J. Funk, Bernnnkastel = Cues. This location in Germany is on the French border in the Moselle wine region.
Stock US Army signal corps print of Brigadier General Mc Alexander during WWI in France. Stock Signal Corps photo of the General in uniform with helmet. In August 1918, he was promoted to temporary Brigadier General and given command of a Brigade in the 90th Infantry Division, which he led in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne operations and which he also commanded in occupation duty in Germany until June 1919. This photo would be dated during this period in France.
Portrait of Brigadier General Ulysses Grant McAlexander, ca. 1920. McAlexander had a long and illustrious military career. In 1920 he was promoted from Colonel to Brigadier General in part because of his leadership at the Battle of the Marne in July 1918. This photo is a cropped head shot from the US Army official photograph which includes his uniform details. This photograph includes his brigadier general star rank on the standard US WWI helmet.
Portrait of Major General Ulysses Grant Mc Alexander in dress uniform. The rank of Major General dates photograph to prior to his retirement in July 1924. Detail of award ribbons on uniform. Marked in pencil on Oregon State University Archives stamped copy, "Gen. U. G. McAlexander presented to Vane Gilison by his daughter-in-law".
Posed portrait of Brigadier General McAlexander in his office at OAC(?). Photograph is by the same portrait photographer of his wife in P002:428/429. Soft focus, posed with McAlexander in uniform with General rank star on epaulets.
Posed portrait of Brigadier General McAlexander in his office at OAC(?). Photograph is by the same portrait photographer of his wife in P002:428/429. Soft focus, posed with McAlexander in uniform with General rank star on epaulets.
Studio portrait of Brigadier General Ulysses Grant McAlexander, probably in the 1920-25 period. Photograph is by the same portrait photographer of his wife in P002:428/429. Soft focus, posed with McAlexander in uniform with General rank star on epaulets.
Studio portrait of the son of General Mc Alexander. Tallmadge McAlexander, at age 16 in a standard soft focus head shot of the period. Tallmadge McAlexander is listed as finishing his BA Thesis from Reed College in 1950, this photo would be of a 1942-1945 vintage. No other biographical information is included with photo.
Negative 4x5. General Mc Alexander and his staff on horseback somewhere in Europe. Probably taken when he was in France receiving a medal in 1924. The castle ruins in background and river valley are of special note. The General and his staff are posed on horseback with this background. Photo is published in OSU Oregon Stater.
Photograph of General and Mrs. McAlexander in later years after retirement. No date is given, but it appears to be circa 1930.
Photo of the passport of General U. G. McAlexander's wife, Grace R. Palmer. Probably circa 1930, this appears to be her passport, photographed.
General Ulysses Grant McAlexander in full dress uniform, circa 1920. Medals on uniform are from US Army service. This photo appears to be a portrait photo that appears in the Beaver Yearbook 1920 edition. Full dress uniform includes gilt on brim of hat denoting General rank. Large portrait copy of original stock photo.
Print 4x6. Period print of Regimental Sergeant Major Denis Hayes, US Army Retired, standing with one foot on the running board of a 1918 vintage automobile. Hayes is in standard high collar coat with leather belted puttees. Photograph is described on the back with notation referencing the 1919 Beaver Yearbook with a listing of military personnel "Over There", pg. 452
possibly contemporary reprint of original negative (accompanying photo) by the Department of Information, Oregon State University (Stamped on reverse) Original photograph described as circa 1919, this is related to the photograph of the address by dignitaries of OAC "Inaugural Exercises, Oct. 1, 1918. The first four rows of crowd are cadets, with civilian onlookers in rear. Officer in Bandstand addressing crowd is unidentified. The cadets uniforms reflect the WWI era with some exceptions that can be attributed to cadet corps being issued older uniform stock. The Campaign Hats are of correct vintage, but the canvas puttees are of older style. Rifles in the group are the older design, Model 1896 .30 Caliber Krag-Jorgensen Rifles of Spanish American War vintage. The cadets were probably issued these supplies from existing US Army stockpiles and they may or may not be upgraded in the field.
Notes on reverse of photograph are concerning the buildings in the background, "Note: Dairy (Soc. Sc.), 2 white frame building the larger of which should be part of Alpha hall; daeke(?) frame house (SPE)"
photograph of the address by dignitaries of OAC "Inaugural Exercises, Oct. 1, 1918". Caption on reverse is typed on a small tag, stating "President Kerr addressing (sic) the S.A.T.C. (Student Army Training Corps) at the Inaugural Exercises, Oct. 1, 1918". The first four rows of crowd are cadets, with civilian onlookers in rear. Officer in Bandstand addressing crowd is unidentified. The cadets uniforms reflect the WWI era with some exceptions that can be attributed to cadet corps being issued older uniform stock.
Contemporary reprint of an early field radio training session with OAC Cadets. Very clear and detailed photo showing the early style wireless radio with cadets and training NCO. Uniforms are Pre WWI vintage based on Puttees issued. The caption on reverse in older fountain pen states: "Field Radio - or wireless Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis" The dating in pencil of about 1915-16 is added later, as is the Department of Information, Oregon State University stamp. This type of radio equipment was in use in the Pre WW1 years, and the Signal Corps Company of OAC included this training on campus. Stock photo may have been published in the Barometer or Oregon Stater during the period.
Formations of OAC cadets marching in front of Agriculture Building and Alpha Hall, probably circa 1918. Full complement of cadet corp on parade.
Ball Studio photograph of "First OAC Training Det. Ready to Leave 8-10-18". Formation of Cadets with rifles at ready. The cadets uniforms reflect the WWI era with some exceptions. The Campaign Hats are of correct vintage, but the canvas puttees are of older style. Rifles in the group are the older design, Model 1896 .30 Caliber Krag-Jorgensen Rifles. Probably a contemporary reprint of old WWI negative. Very clear detail of buildings and parade field. Of note is the walkway foreground made of lumber.
Formation of US Navy cadets marching on campus parade. Probably part of the SATC (which became the ROTC after WWI) unit at OAC during WWI era. Rare photograph in collection of Navy cadets. Standard US Navy Cracker Jack uniforms with WWI Era leggings.
Poor quality photograph showing cadet formation on lower campus with Education Hall and old Gym in distance. Due to the poor lighting/focus it is difficult to determine age of photograph. The overall look of the photo is similar to P002:622 which shows officers in WWI Uniforms. This photograph is most likely of the same batch/time.
Four men in uniform, possibly cadet officers and the US Army military staff, informal group on parade field. Uniforms are standard issue of the WWI period. Bloused trousers and wrapped puttees. Standard campaign hats (Pattern 1911 Service hat) and high collared tunics.
Inspection of cadets in formation by cadet officers and visiting dignitary. Leggings and service caps indicate a WWI uniform style. Rifles are M1896 Krag-Jorgensen bolt action of Spanish American War vintage. The inspection day by the Military Department was a special event each year on the OAC Campus.
Formation of cadets in companies in field adjacent to the new Men's Gymnasium and Moreland Hall (then Forestry Bldg.) Stamped on reverse with E.J. Reed, College Editor, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis Oregon. Pencil notes on margin listing building names. Of note is a 1918 vintage or older flatbed truck on street behind cadets. Open wheels, no cab enclosure on truck. High magnification of the detail in photo shows uniforms of cadets to include campaign hats (Pattern 1911 Service Hat) which were in use during the WWI period.
Formation of cadets in companies in field adjacent to the new Men's Gymnasium and Moreland Hall (Forestry Bldg.) Uniforms are of WWI vintage showing campaign hats and leggings. Good detail of campus buildings in background. Small boy and his Scottie dog are observing the formation in foreground.
A grouping of period photographs of OAC Cadet corps in various formations probably on "Inspection Day" during WWI era. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Uniforms of the day included Campaign hats and leather or canvas leggings. OAC Cadet band leading the formation of cadet regiment onto the inspection field.
A grouping of period photographs of OAC Cadet corps in various formations probably on "Inspection Day" during WWI era. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Uniforms of the day included Campaign hats and leather or canvas leggings. OAC Cadet band leading the formation of cadet regiment onto the inspection field.
A grouping of period photographs of OAC Cadet corps in various formations probably on "Inspection Day" during WWI era. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Uniforms of the day included Campaign hats and leather or canvas leggings. Cadet formations marching on parade field. Unit in background is the US Navy SATC corps assigned to OAC during WWI. Cadets are also wearing the standard issue overcoat.
A grouping of period photographs of OAC Cadet corps in various formations probably on "Inspection Day" during WWI era. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Uniforms include Campaign hats and leather or canvas leggings. Heavy overcoats on cadets indicate a winter inspection of regiment. This photo is of the same grouping which includes the US Navy detachment, of WWI vintage.
Group of dignitaries including President Kerr (in black morning coat) on Inspection Day, circa 1920. Military officer conversing with group is wearing the pattern 1912 Service cap with a pattern 1918 service coat. His belt is of the Model 1910 Garrison style with the US buckle. Leather leggings worn by officers are also shown on the military uniforms in the group. Of special note is the spectacular moustache on the officer at far left. Lines on the bottom of the print indicate that the three men in the center of the group had been named and written on the original negative.
Group of US Army Signal Corps Instructors posing in front of men's gym (Now Langston Hall). Period marking on reverse: "Instructors - U.S. Training Detachment, Corvallis Oregon, Aug 15th 1918" Also includes description of unit, "US Signal Corps Radio Telegraphy & Telephony, Oregon Agricultural College, Corvallis, Oregon." Marking at far top right corner "from Percy". Significant photograph of instructors in a new technology in warfare.
Panorama produced by US Army Signal Corps of "Farewell Regimental Review, US Training Camp, Presidio of San Francisco, in honor of Major General Arthur Murray, November 15, 1917." It is unknown if OAC Cadets are pictured in this image. Good detail of parade grounds of Presidio during the WWI period.
Period print of OAC Cadets assigned to Company A, SATC, 1918. Caption notes "Capt. Dancy Commanding." Condition of print is poor, damage to ends.
Period print of OAC Cadets assigned to Company B, SATC, 1918. Caption reads "Lt. T.B. Van Horn commanding."
Non OAC, active duty military (possible ties to OAC Cadet corps). Caption on print "Officers First Field Artillery, US Army (Regular) St. Sill, Okla, June 25, 1918. Names of officers are written in pencil on back of photo.
Seated portrait of US Navy unit SATC (Student Army Training Corps) at OAC, Corvallis OR, Ensign Wheeler in command, 1918. Photograph of entire unit seated outside, next to Education Building. Print is in fair condition, fading and foxing noted.
During the post World War I period, the ROTC program at Oregon State was nationally recognized. The Armory, built in 1911 (now McAlexander Field House) was the best equipped facility on the West Coast. Many of the photographs in the series are from the post World War I time frame, highlighting the annual Military Tournaments.
After the end of WWI, the Military built up the ROTC Training Battalion at OAC to include a Transportation Corps company. This new technology of warfare, the movement of men and materials by Trucks was to become a new science in Military and Tactics training. Original equipment provided to the OAC Armory included the WWI vintage "Liberty Trucks" and the FWD type. The 1922 Beaver yearbook describes the unit, "Equipment of the latest type and most complete nature is furnished each unit, and a large and able force of officers and enlisted men are stationed here as instructors. OAC has the third largest armory among colleges in the United States." (p.256) This unit was absorbed into the Engineers during the early 1930s.
Print b/w 3.5x5.5. US Army Staff car (Dodge?) leading a column of WWI Vintage "Liberty" and FWD Trucks assigned to OAC for training in the new sciences of mobility within the military. This unit was short lived and was eventually absorbed into the Engineers Corps. These vehicles were part of a new type unit at OAC, the Motor Transport Corps.
Column of WWI Vintage "Liberty" Trucks assigned to OAC for training in the new sciences of mobility within the military. This unit was short lived and was eventually absorbed into the Engineers Corps. These vehicles were part of a new type unit at OAC, the Motor Transport Corps.
Column of WWI Vintage "Liberty" Trucks assigned to OAC for training in the new sciences of mobility within the military. This unit was short lived and was eventually absorbed into the Engineers Corps. These vehicles were part of a new type unit at OAC, the Motor Transport Corps. Similar view of convoy of OAC Transportation Corps WWI vintage liberty trucks.
After WWI the US Army instituted artillery training for ROTC Cadets at OAC. During the 1920s up until the beginning of WWII, a Battalion of Field Artillery was assigned with batteries (Companies A, B, and C) of 4 French WWI design 75mm Howitzers and a M1918 155mm Heavy artillery piece. These guns were used for training in the use of artillery including transport, maintenance and tactics. The "French 75mm" was the standard artillery piece of the US Army during the interwar period. Drawn by 4 horse teams with Caissons (ammunition/parts storage carts) and Limbers (used to attach horses to harnesses), the weapons were seen around campus often. The heavy artillery piece, the M1918 155mm, was moved by a caterpillar tractor (US Army type) and accompanied by trucks with materials and ammunition. These vehicles were part of a new type unit at OAC, the Motor Transport Corps. The 1922 Beaver yearbook describes the unit, "Equipment of the latest type and most complete nature is furnished each unit, and a large and able force of officers and enlisted men are stationed here as instructors. OAC has the third largest armory among colleges in the United States." (p.256)
Photo shows the Artillery Battalion's caissons and limbers lined up for inspection on the side field of the Armory (Mc Alexander Field House) Good detail of building side entrance during the 1920s.
Side view of horse-drawn limber with trailing caisson moving on campus
Movement of artillery caissons/limbers through campus
This photo shows four horse teams attached to limbers/caissons moving through campus.
Line up of horse-drawn caissons with limbers on parade field, probably on inspection day. At right of photograph is a mock pillbox and barricade for inspection day military demonstrations.
Photograph shows the M1918 155mm Heavy Artillery being pulled by the caterpillar tractor by Mc Alexander Armory. The large cannon received the name "Aggie Boy" which was painted on its barrel. Column of cadets marching beside artillery are armed with holstered pistols. Motor Transport Corps motorcycle on right with sidecar.
This photograph shows a column of artillery pieces (75mm) being moved through campus. Probably both companies of artillery during training all being moved.
This photograph depicts a parade of horse drawn limbers and caissons on parade field. The weapons are not present in this formation. Photo is probably of the early 1920 vintage, as with others in this group highlighting the new unit on OAC.
Three horseback cadets by Armory with artillery in background. Photos are of the era after WWI with brimmed Pattern 1912 Service Caps and high collar tunics. The Mc Alexander Field House (then Armory) is in background. Clear photo of uniforms and horse equipment. The artillery unit was formed after WWI using surplus equipment, a number of photos in this group include artillery in content.
Photograph shows the French 75mm with their caissons lined up for inspection day
Detailed photograph of cadets firing artillery on open range (Probably Yakima area) The four man crew in action shows loading a shell into the gun with a cadet sitting on the framework at left. To the rear of the gun, the caisson with ammunition and supplies can be seen open and ready for action. Reverse of photograph is stamped with a Oregon State University Archives mark and the remains of an order form from the photo engravers company. Of special note is a small strip of a campus photograph. 1x4.5 inches pasted to reverse. Education Building on left with Benton Hall obscured by trees on right.
This excellent photo shows the "Aggie Boy" M1918 155mm Heavy gun being towed by the Caterpillar tractor in standard use during the period. The gun is followed by a heavy truck for supplies and ammunition. Also if note is the WWI era motor cycle with sidecar and a cadet sitting watching the parade. Great detail in shot of the "latest" equipment assigned to the new artillery training battalion on OAC beginning just after WWI. The heavy truck following is the "4WD truck" that was manufactured by Four Wheel Drive Co. in Clintonville, WI A WWI vintage US Army truck.
A highly detailed photo of one of the Artillery Battalion French 75mm cannons with it's caisson in the field next to the Armory. Vehicles in background include a small sporty Ford Model T "Speedster" by the Armory entrance. The artillery piece is shown in clear detail with the fittings and straps of the caisson also rendered well.
Aggie Boy was the name given to the heavy artillery training piece assigned to OAC in the 1920s. This is detailed view of the M1918 155mm Howitzer, a French design from WWI. Cadet leaning on gun carriage at right. The west side of the Armory (Mc Alexander Field House) in background. "Aggie Boy" has been hand painted in black on the barrel of the artillery piece.
Six horse teams are shown pulling caissons and French 75mm artillery pieces on campus to the west of Armory.
Photo depicts a crew of cadets working with the French 75mm cannon on campus. Uniforms are of WWI vintage, artillery cadets were still wearing the campaign hats and wrapped puttees. Caisson is open showing stowage of ammunition and supplies. Good, clear detail of uniforms and equipment.
This photo shows a line of caissons and 75mm Field guns being stored inside the Armory (Mc Alexander Field House). Of special note are the young children in photo. 2 officers/NCOs are riding on one of the caissons, and there are 6 children (Pre teen) involved with the event.
This view of the 155mm heavy artillery piece. Of special note the gun still shows the remnants of the WWI style camouflage (3 color type) used on equipment in the WWI through early 1920s period. The huge bore of the heavy gun is featured as well as the hard rubber wheels on the carriage. Photo is taken inside of the Armory building showing the construction of the huge open parade/training area.
This sub series of photographs includes OAC Cadet formations on Inspection Day. An annual event on the OAC Campus, Military Review or "Inspection Day" involved the entire cadet division. Representatives from the Military Department would attend the ceremonies and certify the ROTC Program and its personnel. OAC Boasted a continuous Excellent rating in these evaluations for most of the 1920s and 30s. Uniforms of cadets and officers date to Pre 1925 uniform regulations. Officers jackets have the high collar (vintage WWI) design which was changed in 1925. Many of the photos in the sub series portray marching formations of cadets on the parade field below Benton Hall.
Spectators arriving to view military day at OAC, Armory in background. Jefferson Street with auto traffic on left.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadet company marching on lower campus parade field.
Speaker addressing (possibly General McAlexander) large group of cadets on lower campus below Benton Hall. Band members also seated on grass with group.
Cadets demonstrating a bayonet charge.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Lines of cadets at attention waiting for inspection.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Wide view of parade field with cadet formations. Benton Hall in background.
Cadets with fixed bayonets in demonstration probably on inspection day
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadet formations marching by Armory.
Large group of cadets on grass listening to speaker at left. Unidentified speaker in uniform, possibly McAlexander? Officers are being group standing, at right.
Cadet formations marching past Armory. Jefferson Street on left with columns of cadets marching on sidewalks.
Campus view showing quad area with bandstand at right. Pharmacy bldg and Benton Hall in background. Photograph is probably vintage 1920s and appears not to show any military formations or cadets.
Good view of the Mc Alexander Field House (then Armory) with cadets marching in parade field adjacent to Jefferson Street.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadets marching in formation with field packs. Spectator gallery in view with some small children in group.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Company formations of cadets marching on parade field. This photo shows cadets with full field packs, a rare photo in the series.
Photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Poorly focused photo of cadets passing in review. Military Department representatives and possibly President Kerr viewing marching cadets.
Photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadet formation of companies marching in column style.
Photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. cadets marching in single file line, away from camera. Uniforms show the leather cartridge case on belts.
Photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Right shoulder arms, forward march.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadet Infantry Company D flag on parade field.
Wide, high angle shot of cadets on parade field, inspection day
Graduation day high level photograph of parade field. View shows spectators in long dresses and suits. Graduating class, in caps and gowns are lined up on left hand side of field.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. High angle photograph, almost aerial view of parade field with cadet formations. Detail examination shows groups of cadets in graduation cap and gowns in front of their respective companies.
A grouping of period photographs of OAC Cadet corps in various formations probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Formations of cadet companies in many of this grouping are shown on the lower campus with the Education Building (Science Bldg) and the old Gymnasium in background.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Formation of cadets ready for inspection.
Company formations of cadets at parade rest. Squad of stretcher bearers at right. Cadet officer leaning on his sabre.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. This was an annual event in the OAC year which included a review of the cadets by college and military dignitaries, parades and military demonstrations. Rifles on shoulders are still probably the Pre WWI Krag Jorgensen .30 Caliber.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Cadet formation including OAC Cadet Band at left.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Formation of cadets marching in background with Mc Alexander field house (Armory) on right.
Small group of cadets walking in formation (informally) with rifles.
Two cadet companies marching on parade field with rifles.
Cadet company marching on parade field, inspection day
Overall view of cadet formations on lower campus, probably inspection day
Company formation marching on lower campus
Wide view of parade field with all cadet companies in formation for inspection day
Wide view of cadet formations on parade field ready for inspection day
Cadet company marching in formation to inspection day parade field
OAC Cadet band marching with instruments at inspection day
Informal group of cadets marching back home from inspection day. Some with rifles on shoulders, some at sides, group is organized but not formally marching.
Officer talking with company of cadets. Rifles are of the newer 1903 Springfield type, replacing the Pre Spanish American War Krag-Jorgensen rifles seen issued to cadets in the 1900-1918 period.
Cadet formation waiting for their turn to be inspected by Military Department representatives
Cadet company moving in line abreast formation on parade field
Cadet company marching on parade field in close order drill, inspection day
Cadet company marching in formation on lower campus
Column of cadets moving at double time in formation probably on inspection day
Wide view of cadet formations on inspection day. Of note is the company on left wearing the WWI era "body armor" vests.
Cadet formations moving past the Armory
With the Armory (Mc Alexander Field House) in background, the formation of cadets are grouped with officers speaking. Flags and company colors are at rear of formation, this indicates that the group could possibly be forming up for inspection day activities.
A view of the cadet formation from the rear showing them marching toward the Armory. Photograph is similar to many in this grouping of marching cadets on lower campus parade field. Formations are being moved into position for inspection day activities, circa 1920.
Cadet formation marching past the Pharmacy Building with Benton Hall in the background. College coed dressed in exercise outfit (?) watching them pass.
Wide angle view of cadet regiment marching in formation on parade field.
Movement of cadets on lower campus, probably inspection day
Photograph is similar to many in this grouping of marching cadets on lower campus parade field. Formations are being moved into position for inspection day activities, circa 1920.
This detail photo is related to P002:593 and 600 showing the speaker they are listening to. The profile of the subject could be General McAlexander. While in a uniform, there is no rank insignia shown. The individual is wearing a garrison cap with plaid markings, not seen on any other cadets of the period.
This group of cadets are informally gathering in the lower area by the Old Gymnasium. The gymnasium later became the College Playhouse and Mitchell Playhouse. Today it is the Gladys Valley Gymnastics Center.
Photograph is similar to many in this grouping of marching cadets on lower campus parade field. Formations are being moved into position for inspection day activities, circa 1920.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Formations are being moved into position for inspection day activities, circa 1920.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. Formations are being moved into position for inspection day activities, circa 1920.
This photograph is poorly focused, but appears to be the crowd of spectators for the formations of cadets marching on the parade field. Agriculture Hall in background.
Small group of spectators watching movement of cadet company on parade field, lower campus across from Education Building.
A photograph of OAC Cadet corps in formation probably on "Inspection Day" early 1920s. View from above, of entire cadet regiment moving onto the lower campus parade field. Education Building (Science Hall) rear of building is on left.
Similar view to P002:687, this photograph includes color guard marching in formation. Entire cadet regiment moving onto parade field, lower campus.
This photograph is better focused,and appears to be the crowd of spectators for the formations of cadets marching on the parade field. Agriculture Hall in background.
This photograph is poorly focused, and the man in civilian clothes might be one of the military department observers. Officers are wearing dress uniforms for inspection day.
Cadets are resting in high grass field. Rifles are stacked at side of group.
Spectators watching the inspection day formations of OAC Cadets
Photo includes the US Army officers assigned to OAC ROTC Program meeting with an unidentified man in suit. Possibly Military Department representative here to review cadet regiment.
The high collar tunic was still in issue up to 1925, which places the uniform styles in the circa 1920 period. Photograph shows military officer bending down to view baby in carriage while the mother looks on. Cadet officer observes, holding megaphone in white gloved hands.
Cadet color guard marching across parade field in front of large crowd of spectators.
This sub series contains photos of Inspection Day formations of OAC Cadets wearing later type 1925 style uniforms. Dating of sub series based on collar design of officers jackets. Many of the photos appear to be of Inspection Day Formations, all are related.
Wide angle view of cadet formations on lower campus, possibly mid 1920s. Cadets are formed into companies with officers on right. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots.
Wide angle photo of OAC Cadet band in formation on parade field, probably Inspection Day in mid 1920s. Company formation of cadets on right with officers in field. Band in marching formation with instruments. Double exposure trick photography changing perspective. Band in foreground is smaller than the band in the background.
Wide angle view of cadet formations on lower campus, possibly mid 1920s. Cadets are formed into companies with officers on right. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots, uniforms could date to circa 1925. Duplicate print of P002:535
Wide angle view of cadet formations on lower campus, possibly mid 1920s. Cadets are formed into companies with officers on right. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots, uniforms could date to circa 1925. Photo is related to P002:535
US Army officer inspecting OAC Cadet Color Guard, probably inspection day. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots, uniforms of officers include collar design post 1925.
Cadet companies moving into formation on parade field. Inspection day, mid 1920s. Monroe street churches on left in background. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots, uniforms date to circa 1925 or later.
Wide angle view of cadet formations on lower campus, possibly mid 1920s. Color guard formation at attention with officer saluting with sabre. Cadet company formations in background. Detail of photo indicates service caps and high leather boots, uniforms date to post circa 1925.
Print of larger panorama. Cadets resting in shade on campus. Notation on reverse states: "Annual Military Inspection Parade - ROTC" Also noted: "1925 Beaver p.174" and "Rec'd May 26 '64 Shriber". Cadets are wearing garrison caps and have web gear with canteens and pouches visible. High collar tunics are consistent with dating.
Print of larger panoramic photograph. Formations of cadets on parade field, with spectators circa 1925. Photo is marked on reverse "Annual Military Inspection parade - ROTC" Also marked in lower right corner: "1925 Beaver p.174, Rec'd May 26 '64 Shriber". Wide angle shot of cadets on field. Spectators on right looking on.
Print of larger panoramic photo. Night time photograph of the Armory (Mc Alexander Field House) with period automobiles. Sign over door of building "Military Tournament - April 27th" Markings in pencil on reverse: "The cadet corps at the time of the annual Military inspection has succeeded in winning the Distinguished Star rating during the past five seasons, the entire equipment of all units of ROTC is used for the parade. 1925 Beaver p.174" The photo is also marked in lower right with "Rec'd May 26 '64 Shriber".
Collection of 4x5 negatives, various subjects during the interwar years. Many of the negatives correspond with prints in this series. Some of the negatives are related to the prints as different views, same subjects. Arranged numerically within the sub series folder.
10 Army Drill Team members with Officer. Rifles are 1903 Springfield bolt action. Men are wearing garrison caps in dress uniforms. Officer wearing dress tunic with Sam Browne belt and brimmed cap.
The annual military ball at Oregon State was the high point of the cadet year. The elaborate backdrop with anti-aircraft guns and bombs for the band was probably erected in the Memorial Union ballroom. Officers and their escorts are being greeted by the Commandant. Circa dating of 1937 is indicated by uniforms. This photo was probably used for OSC publication.
Governor Charles Martin presenting award ribbon to cadet honor guard on their company pennant. Previous description (Unconfirmed) dates the event to 1938. Military uniforms conform to this circa date. Parade grounds adjacent to Weatherford hall.
4 cadet officers in dress uniform with diplomas in hands. Reviewing officer on left in full dress uniform. Parade grounds formation back ground. Uniforms date to 1935 or earlier. High boots with ceremonial spurs and riding pants (Jodhpurs) indicate cavalry officers. The Sam Browne belts worn with dress uniform were issued up to 1940. Cadets appear to be holding certificates or diplomas. Possible use in the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
Five cadet officers in dress uniforms. Date of negative based on 1938 written on edge of negative. Photograph of cadet officers is similar to Beaver Yearbook listing of this period. Uniforms are correct for circa dating.
Stock photograph of formations of cadets on parade grounds. Prior description lists photograph circa 1939. Similar image is included in 1938 Beaver yearbook. Negative is probably from series of photos used.
Formation of cadets in front of McAlexander Field House Armory. Dating of photo to 1939 is possible, based on uniforms. Possible use of the negatives for the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
Two drum major cadets in dress uniform on parade field. Prior description identifies men as Martin Coopy and Tom Stevenson. Uniforms indicate probable dating of 1935.
Overhead view (possibly from Weatherford Hall tower?) of parade field with reviewing stand. Cadet companies are marching past in review. OSC Cadet band playing in background.
Reviewing stand for cadet inspection day by Oregon Governor Martin. Various photos in this series show this stand, probably on parade field adjacent to Weatherford Hall. Cadet officer is saluting dignitaries with his sabre.
Reviewing stand for cadet inspection day by Oregon Governor Martin (?). Various photos in this series show this stand, probably on parade field adjacent to Weatherford Hall. President Peavy appears to be seated in group.
Reviewing stand for cadet inspection day by Oregon Governor Martin. Various photos in this series show this stand, probably on parade field adjacent to Weatherford Hall. Dignitaries are lined up for presentations (Commissions?) circa 1937.
Overhead view (possibly from Weatherford Hall tower?) of parade field with reviewing stand. Cadet companies are marching past in review. OSC Cadet band playing in background. Circa 1937
Cadet company in formation for review, inspection day. Of note is photographer with camera on left.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Circa dating of 1937 is based on uniforms and President Peavy's attendance.
Line of ROTC Artillery Unit guns pass in review on inspection day. Cadet formations in background of parade field. The artillery pieces appear to be 37mm light field artillery.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Good view of Weatherford Hall in background.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin(?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of OSC Artillery Unit on parade. ROTC Military Inspection Day, Governor Martin(?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade filed. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin(?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade filed. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade filed. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Line of dignitaries and officers salute the colors as they pass in review.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade filed. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Line of dignitaries and officers salute the colors as they pass in review.
Entire cadet corps in formation in front of Armory, probably listening to speaker. Photo appears to belong to same group from inspection day with governor Martin in attendance.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade filed. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Line of dignitaries and officers observe cadet company marching by in formation.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Circa dating of 1937 is based on uniforms and President Peavy's attendance. Photographs of "Governor's Inspection Day" appear in the 1938 and 1940 Beaver Yearbooks, photos from this group being used.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Circa dating of 1937 is based on uniforms and President Peavy's attendance. Photographs of "Governor's Inspection Day" appear in the 1938 and 1940 Beaver Yearbooks, photos from this group being used.
Military officers and civilian dignitaries stand in review of cadet formations on parade field. Probably inspection day, Governor Martin (?) and President Peavy are seen in this group of photographs. Circa dating of 1937 is based on uniforms and President Peavy's attendance. Photographs of "Governor's Inspection Day" appear in the 1938 and 1940 Beaver Yearbooks, photos from this group being used.
Groups of cadets in field in front of Armory (now McAlexander Field House). Formations appear to be moving, possibly forming up for inspection day.
Line of ROTC Artillery Unit guns pass in review on inspection day. Cadet formations in background of parade field. The artillery pieces appear to be 37mm light field artillery. This view is similar to P002:462.
Inspection day, cadet company formations being reviewed by dignitaries. Possibly Gov. Martin and President Peavy as seen in other photos in this grouping. Campus buildings in background, parade field adjacent to Men's Dorm (now Weatherford Hall). Photos in this grouping appear in the 1937 and 1940 Beaver yearbooks.
Inspection day, OSC motorized companies being reviewed by dignitaries. Possibly Gov. Martin and President Peavy as seen in other photos in this grouping. Vintage of vehicles used to date photo to
Inspection day, cadet company formations being reviewed by dignitaries. Possibly Gov. Martin and President Peavy as seen in other photos in this grouping. Campus buildings in background, parade field adjacent to Education building on lower campus. Photos in this grouping appear in the 1937 and 1940 Beaver yearbooks.
Inspection day, cadet company formations being reviewed by dignitaries. Possibly Gov. Martin and President Peavy as seen in other photos in this grouping. Uniforms include leather puttees, probably a cavalry unit.
Formation of cadets in front of McAlexander Field House Armory. This image is related to P002:066, same pose and location of photo. Possible use of the negatives in the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
Unit of ROTC Artillery cadets loading their field gun. Action shot showing shell being loaded. Uniforms and equipment can be dated to late 1930s. The photograph is seen in the 1940 Beaver Yearbook in a montage of military subjects.
Unit of ROTC Artillery cadets loading their field gun. Two officers observe the cadets and their gun. Uniforms and equipment can be dated to late 1930s. The photograph is seen in the 1940 Beaver Yearbook in a montage of military subjects.
Unit of ROTC Artillery cadets loading their field gun. View from the muzzle end of the gun. Officer inspecting performance at right. Uniforms and equipment can be dated to late 1930s. The photograph is seen in the 1940 Beaver Yearbook in a montage of military subjects.
Military encampment on campus adjacent to Weatherford Hall circa 1936. Period vehicles including trucks and sedans. Tents of different configurations from 2 man "pup tents" to larger personnel tents. Photographs similar to this grouping are published in Beaver Yearbook, 1936.
Military encampment on campus adjacent to Weatherford Hall circa 1936. Period vehicles including trucks and sedans. Tents of different configurations from 2 man "pup tents" to larger personnel tents. Photographs similar to this grouping are published in Beaver Yearbook, 1936.
Military encampment on campus adjacent to Weatherford Hall circa 1936. Period vehicles including trucks and sedans. Tents of different configurations from 2 man "pup tents" to larger personnel tents. Photographs similar to this grouping are published in Beaver Yearbook, 1936.
Company of cadet officers at attention with colors on inspection day. The uniforms indicated mid to late 1930s, including leather puttees and jodhpurs riding trousers.
OAC Company F marching on lower campus with rifles. Probably inspection day. Men are wearing Garrison caps with class A tunics. Dating to mid 1930s based on uniforms, the OAC on the guidon is probably left over past the change to OSC.
ROTC Drum major in dress uniform on parade field. Uniforms indicate probable dating of 1935. Possible use of the negatives for the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
Two drum major cadets in dress uniform on parade field. Prior description identifies men as Martin Coopy and Tom Stevenson. Uniforms indicate probable dating of 1935. Images are found in the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
ROTC Drum Major, similar to P002:545, slightly more centered shot. Uniforms indicate probable dating of 1935.
Copy of the famous US Army cartoon about soldiers and VD. "Two girls I know want to meet you in the worst way." C.D. Batchelor, American Social Hygiene Association, circa 1940. This cartoon was done as a series for the military prior to WWII.
US Army Cadet rifle team and officer/NCO advisor. Photograph is Pre WWII, uniforms reflect tall boots and Sam Browne belts. Decorations and medals on US Army personnel in back row show service in WWI and top level marksman badges. There is no indication location of the photo. Based on uniforms, photo can be dated from approximately 1925-1940.
stamped on reverse "Oregon State College Library Picture Collection" with no data included. Seated dignitaries not identified. Military uniforms date to Pre WWII vintage, cavalry officer 2nd from right wearing high leather boots with ceremonial spurs. Officers uniforms include the Sam Browne belt.
US Army Captain in dress uniform informal pose. Rack of books in background has copies of the Beaver Yearbook. Military dress uniform dates to pre-WWII vintage, including Sam Browne belt.
Excellent study of Cadet uniform of the late 1920s. Sam Browne belt with cadet's sword, jodhpurs trousers and early style rolled collar (Lapel type) dress blouse. Emblem on left sleeve unique to OAC. Leather leggings or puttees are indicative of calvary as is the lapel badges. Identification of cadet is not given.
Oregon State College ROTC Rifle Team, wearing sweaters with logo, holding bolt action 1903 Springfield rifles. Officer and NCO in back row are in dress uniform with leather Sam Browne belts and lapel type jackets. Members of rifle team are not identified.
Unidentified officer in dress uniform. Officer is wearing Sam Browne belt with one overseas chevron on left sleeve (WWI deployment). Uniform coat dates from 1926-1940, based on belt and lapel type.
Posed photograph of 3 cadet Colonels, circa 1932. Dress uniforms include high leather boots with ceremonial spurs with riding pants (Jodhpurs) indicating cavalry cadets officers. Sam Browne belts as issued during period. The last year that OSC had cavalry cadets was 1929, this is a more probable dating of photograph.
Military encampment on campus adjacent to Weatherford Hall circa 1936. Period vehicles including trucks and sedans. Tents of different configurations from 2 man "pup tents" to larger personnel tents. Photograph is a copy of published image in Beaver Yearbook, 1936. Good detail of Weatherford Hall.
Formation of cadet companies being inspected by officers. Uniforms date prior to 1926 based on high collars. Cadets are equipped with 1903 Springfield Rifles. Uniforms include web belts and high laced leather boots. Officers dress uniforms indicate cavalry with high leather puttees and ceremonial spurs. Officer inspecting cadet's rifle. Good detail of post WWI uniforms and equipment during period of 1919-1925.
Two US Army men, one cadet, wearing post WWI issue high collar jacket with brim cap and high laced leather boots. The second, an officer, probably OAC Staff personnel with later rolled collar (1926 issue) dress jacket and Sam Browne belt. This is a common theme in military photographs depicting the tallest and shortest men in a particular unit. Photograph is clear with good detail of uniforms and markings.
Ball Studio #14869. OAC cadet cavalry Company "B", in formation in open field by McAlexander Field House, 1922. Uniforms are correct for mid 1920s cavalry units. Muddy field with road where Kerr Admin building is at present. Stock photo used in publication for OAC, found on page 254 of the 1922 OAC Beaver Yearbook. stamped on reverse with Department of Information, Oregon State University, Corvallis Oregon. Later printing of original 1920s photo.
Military Engineers - 1925. Building a standard pontoon bridge while on training manoeuvres. Circa mid 1920s, this photo appears to be a stock issue for publication in OAC yearbook or Oregon Stater. Reprint in this format is from later date, with stamp on reverse: "Department of Information, Oregon State University, Corvallis Oregon" Activities include cadets moving floating bridge components up to bank and building plank roadway. Military caterpillar tractor is pulling supplies to location. Cadets in uniforms and civilian onlookers on bank of river (probably Calapooia)
OAC Cadets perform exhibition battle scene on the athletic field, during the Military Tournament 1927. This print is marked on reverse with "Beaver Page 266-1 #385 See Trim Marks". The cropped version is included in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook, page 267 under the title "Sham Battle". Of note is the use of WWI surplus equipment, this includes the style of helmet and gas masks as well.
Governor Charles H. Martin addressing cadet formation, 1935-36. Photograph is probably from stock used for OSC publication, identified in pencil narration on reverse, reading like a press release; "Governor Charles H. Martin always dressed the part when he reviewed the cadet regiment and spoke to the men to receive commissions. Here in 1936 he advised the officers not to join the "grouches and radicals" when they finished college. Probably all these men are now in active service." The last comment about active service would probably speak to WWII, placing these comments of that era. There is also a fountain pen caption at the top reverse, "Military Review 1935-36"
Towed artillery pieces passing in review, inspection day, probably late 1930s. Trucks in photo of 1930s vintage. Artillery pieces are 37mm cannons, replacement equipment for the older WWI vintage French 75mm previously assigned to OAC Artillery Stallions.
Officers inspecting completed pontoon bridge. Practice in construction of bridge by Engineering Battalion is shown in Beaver yearbooks. The Engineering Battalion built the pontoon bridge while on summer camp manoeuvres.
Two officers inspecting completed pontoon bridge. Practice in construction of bridge by Engineering Battalion is shown in Beaver yearbooks in the 1920s. The Engineering Battalion built the pontoon bridge while on summer camp manoeuvres.
Two US Army men, one cadet, wearing post WWI issue high collar jacket with brim cap and high laced leather boots. The second, an officer, probably OAC Staff personnel with later rolled collar (1926 issue) dress jacket and Sam Browne belt. This was a common theme in military photographs depicting the tallest and shortest men in a particular unit. Photograph is clear with good detail of uniforms and markings.
Signal Corps company cadet showing the Army signal flag communication system. Cap and leggings are of the post WWI period. Oval cut photo appears to have been in a scrap book or wall display.
Print b/w 3.5x5.5. Group of cadets walking line abreast across field below Benton Hall. Based on uniform caps the post WWI era is indicated. Officer walking toward the group is wearing the WWI era Puttee wrap leggings. This group is probably "policing" the field (looking for trash to pick up). Benton Hall in background.
Machine Gun training post WWI beside Armory. Cadets are seen training with the Browning M1917A1 .303 Water Cooled machine gun mounted on the standard M1917 tripod. This weapon saw only limited use by the US Army during WWI. This photo, probably just after WWI shows training of cadets in setting up and firing the gun.
Machine Gun training post WWI beside Armory. Cadets are seen training with the Browning M1917A1 .303 Water Cooled machine gun mounted on the standard M1917 tripod. This weapon saw only limited use by the US Army during WWI. This photo, probably just after WWI due to the uniform style with campaign hats and wrapped puttees, show training of cadets in setting up and firing the gun. This is a second view of the scene depicted in P002:656, same cadets are shown, observers have moved away. Of special note in the background next to the Armory is a cadet practicing semaphore flag signaling, also seen in the other view, but with flags now raised to form a letter.
Rifle training on campus by Armory. Cadets are seated with rifles, apparently live fire training into a large pile of firewood behind Armory. In the far background, the artillery company has their French 75mm guns on field for similar exercises. The large wood pile is approximately 20'x100' in size.
Cadets running with rifles with fixed bayonets on lower campus. Benton hall is in background. Uniforms with field caps and leggings are of the early 1920s vintage. Photograph may be related to inspection day demonstrations of military tactics.
Group of cadets walking line abreast across field below Benton Hall. Based on uniform caps the post WWI era is indicated. Officer walking toward the group is wearing the WWI era Puttee wrap leggings. This group is probably "policing" the field (looking for trash to pick up). A smaller, cropped view of P002:632 Benton Hall in background.
Medical corpsmen watching demonstration on parade field. The small group of medical troops with their stretchers stacked observing a demonstration of handling wounded soldiers on the battlefield. Service caps and cloth leggings place uniforms after WWI and prior to 1925.
Medical corpsmen watching demonstration on parade field. The small group of medical troops with their stretchers stacked observing a demonstration of handling wounded soldiers on the battlefield. Lower campus parade field. The sequence of turning the man over, raising him up and putting them over the shoulder in a "fireman's" carry is depicted by the squad in this photo.
Real Photo Postcard AZO 2 triangles up/2 down (dates card to 1918-1930), OAC Cavalry Drill Team performing on their mounts on Bell Field in front of grand stand. Formation of horses performing formation drills. Riders have ceremonial lances and tall cavalry hats with standing tassel decoration. All black (dark) horses with one white steed for show. Nursing students have a first aid station set up in background, white nursing uniforms are visible.
Small groups of men with rifles in civilian clothes. Possibly an alumni veterans meeting on OAC campus after WWI. Group on right seem to have medals on their chests. All men are handling bolt action 1903 Springfield rifles. Some are wearing WWI era campaign hats and have puttees. Possibly a staged photo for publication in the Oregon Stater or Barometer.
Group of cadets laying in the grass watching the girls gym class, hubba, hubba! Men are wearing the standard 1920s style brimmed caps and canvas and leather leggings/puttees.
Wide angle view of OAC Cavalry Companies in formation. Uniforms indicate post WWI style. The Armory is at right. Horse companies are formed into columns, probably for some type of inspection.
Small standard military head shot of military officer, probably ROTC based on collar badges from the 1930s era. The collar on the uniform is of the post 1925 issue. Unidentified, but in very light pencil written on reverse "Ferguson Col HE". This is possibly a cadet Colonel photo for the yearbook or other ROTC publication.
Cadet band drum majors and majorettes in full dress uniforms. The 2 ROTC drum majors on each end of group are wearing the standard mid 30s dress coat with service breeches (jodhpurs pants). Sam Brown belts with high leather boots. The 4 "junior" drum majors and majorettes are wearing non standard uniforms, probably band issued with garrison caps. Photograph is probably produced for OAC publication.
Unidentified ROTC officer portrait in dress uniform. Badges on lapels indicate Artillery Corps. The style of service coat dates to after 1925 based on collar type. Standard service cap with ROTC badge. Probably a cadet officer photo used for publication in OSC yearbook or Barometer.
Two military officers with cavalry horse. The Major is speaking with an unidentified officer holding a cavalry horse. The officer with his back to the viewer may possibly be General Mc Alexander, based on the coat sleeve markings. This photograph is possibly related to the mounted group photo of Gen. Mc Alexander when he was in Europe in 1920s to receive medals from the French government, although this is an unconfirmed description of this photo.
Standard US Army portrait head shot of unidentified Chaplain. Uniform indicates Pre WWII as Sam Brown belt strap can be seen. Photograph is probably for publication in ROTC yearbook.
Stock 6x8 Group photo of military officers with 3 civilians on steps of campus building. Uniforms of officers date to the 1935 era, including Sam Brown belts and cavalry boots. Three unidentified civilians in suits may be the Military Department inspectors for the ROTC inspection day activities.
duplicates of P002:790 Group photo of military officers with 3 civilians on steps of campus building. Uniforms of officers date to the 1935 era, including Sam Brown belts and cavalry boots. Three unidentified civilians in suits may be the Military Department inspectors for the ROTC inspection day activities. Posed photograph includes all of the military personnel at OSC. Pencil notation on reverse "Military 1934"
Portrait of an unidentified man in suit and tie. Based on collar, 1920s vintage. Portrait by Bachrach Studios.
This series contains images of ROTC cadets during WWII. Oregon State was known as the "West Point of the West". OSC produced more military officers than any other institution during the period. Stock US Army photographs that were used in OSC publications are included.
Sub-series includes stock US Military photographs, mostly 8x10 glossy, of various subjects. Probably used in Oregon Stater and Barometer publications. Some photos show a connection to OSC based on personnel listed.
Photo is a stock US Maritime Commission (#3356) 8X10 for publication. Very detailed photo of a Liberty Ship being fitted out at pier side. Note on back of photo: "A crane's eye view of a Liberty ship being given final touches at the outfitting dock." Built by the Kaiser Corporation at four shipyards in California and 3 in the Northwest (including Portland OR). Kaiser developed methods for prefabricating and mass producing Liberty Ships. Location of this photo is not listed.
Photo is a stock US Maritime Commission (#2947) 8X10 for publication. Detailed view of the beginning of construction of a World War II Liberty ship by the Kaiser Corporation. Construction of the keel of a liberty ship is shown in this detailed photograph. Location is not listed on the photograph. Built by the Kaiser Corp at four shipyards in California and 3 in the Northwest (including Portland OR). Kaiser developed methods for prefabricating and mass producing Liberty Ships. Location of this photo is not listed however, the shipyards in Portland Oregon produced this type of ship during the war.
Stock US Maritime Photograph (#2712) 8X10 for publication. Detailed photograph of the launching of a Liberty Ship with crowd of onlookers and speakers. Location of this photograph is not listed, but this scene was commonplace during the war. With the high rate of completion of these hulls, launching ceremonies were conducted on an almost daily basis during 1942-1944. During the war, a Liberty Ship could be built in a about two weeks at a Kaiser yard. In November 1942, one of Kaiser's Richmond yards built a Liberty Ship (Robert E. Peary) in 4 days, 15 hours, and 29 minutes as a publicity stunt. Nationally, the average construction time was 42 days and by 1943, three Liberty Ships were being completed each day.
Stock military photo with two US Navy trainees in fatigue uniform on a military bulldozer. The location of the photo and identification of servicemen is listed on reverse: Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek, Virginia. Left: Madden, Byron Emerson, Lynnville Indiana, Right: Lono, Luther Albert, Alpena Michigan. The photo has Oregon State College written in pencil, possibly indicating these two individuals have a connection to Oregon State ROTC. The Amphibious Training Base (also known as "Little Creek") was the center for all types of amphibious training of crews of Amphibious craft during WWII.
Stock US Military photograph with two trainees looking at a radio set. WWII vintage photograph based on type of fatigue uniforms and radio equipment. The photograph is identified on reverse: "Naval Amphibious Base, Little Creek Virginia. Left: Lono, Luther Albert, Alpena Michigan, Right: Peterson, Reuben William, Portland, Oregon. The photo also has Oregon State written in pencil across the back. Possibly sent to Oregon State College by the US Military for publicity purposes due to OSC ROTC cadets as subject matter.
Small print used for Oregon Stater magazine. Military stock photo with stamp on reverse: "Processed by Headquarters "B" Detachment 164th Signal Photographic Company APO 627" The print is also marked CT-45-23831 in pencil, possibly dating photo to 1945. Beaver Engraving Co. stamp on reverse also. Military personnel in line taking Oath for field commissions are not identified, 3 men are of higher NCO ranks. Photo appears in the Oregon Stater, October 1945 page 14. Listed as Kumming China, 7 men receiving field commissions. William H. Johnson '45 is in group. Oregon Stater October 1945, page 14.
All photos in sub series appear to have been used in OSC publication or on display showing alumni in military service. This series of head shots appears to be Oregon State College ROTC alumni. The uniforms are mostly mid to late WWII period, with a small number of oval photos from the 1925 era. The photos have been stamped on reverse with Oregon State University Archives. Most photos have some form of identification written in pencil on reverse.
stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Blodgett, Lt. J. H., ROTC #53882
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Ostermeier, Lt. Col. R. L. ROTC #52312
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Conway, John M. #52360 ROTC
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Carlson, Edwin Jr. ROTC #57216
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Murray, Col. D.B. ROTC #52213
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Bailey, N. R. ROTC #52225
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: De Mith, Sgt. Jamie ROTC #51408
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Ridge, B.B. ROTC #51404
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Cox, W. O., ROTC #51407
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Roebnick, D. J. ROTC #52222
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Anderson, Leslie ROTC #52221
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Roginson, D. S. ROTC #51409
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Dreis, Le Roy, M/Sgt ROTC #52228
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Smith, Capt. H. G. ROTC #51399
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Gwinn, John F. ROTC #52223
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Sloan, J. L. ROTC #51406
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Major Spencer (No other identification)
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Minton 103 Also listed as circa 1925, which is possible due to high collar tunic with Sam Browne belt, Cavalry officer This photo of Captain J T Minton, Cavalry, appears in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook pg. 256 under the group of Commissioned US Army officers at OAC.
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Lovett 103 Small oval photo, probably of 1920s vintage, officer badge for Engineers. This photo of 1st Lt. R. G. Lovett, Engineers appears in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook pg. 256 under the group of Commissioned US Army officers at OAC.
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: McCormick 103 Oval photo with officer cap with brim, high collar and Artillery badge. This photo of Captain T. C. Mc McCormick, Field Artillery appears in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook pg. 256 under the group of Commissioned US Army officers at OAC.
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Russey 103 Oval photo, high collar with artillery badge. This photo of Captain J W Russey Field Artillery appears in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook pg. 256 under the group of Commissioned US Army officers at OAC.
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Force, J. A. M/Sgt ROTC #52230
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Bryan #51402 (no other identification, subject is a Major or Lt. Colonel, US Army Air Corps badges)
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Jones, Loren ROTC #51398
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Johnson, E. W. M/Sgt ROTC #52227
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Lt. W. R. Skinner (No other identification, USMC officer, probably OSC alumni)
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Brinkman, M. N. Capt. #49959
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Claudnis, H. G. #49958 (US Navy uniform, officer?, ROTC?)
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Latson 103 (oval photo, high collar with Engineers badge, probably Pre 1925) This photo of 1st Lt. R. G. Miller, Field Artillery appears in the 1927 Beaver Yearbook pg. 256 under the group of Commissioned US Army officers at OAC.
Stock portrait from US Army. Name of person in this photograph is listed as: Miller 103 (Oval photo, high collar with artillery badge, probably Pre 1925)
Collection of 4x5 negatives, various subjects during WWII years (1940-1945). Many of the negatives correspond with prints in this series. Some of the negatives are related to the prints as different views, same topics. Arranged numerically within the sub series folder. Many negatives in this sub series appear in OSC publications (Yearbook, Oregon Stater, Barometer)
Military review outside Weatherford Hall on parade field. Color guard coming to halt in front of two Officers. Prior description of image dates it to May 1941 with a review by Governor Sprague. Similar photographs are seen in the 1941 OSC Beaver Yearbook, page 95.
Military review of cadets marching past line of officers and officials. Prior description of photo dates it to May 1941 with a visit by Governor Sprague. Color guard with national flag and Oregon State College flag. Uniforms of officers in reviewing line are inconclusive as to dating. Buildings in the background of parade grounds are no help. Photographs can be seen in the 1941 OSC Beaver Yearbook, page 95.
Review of ranks of cadet officers by Governor Sprague. Reviewing line has good detail of uniforms of NCO and cadets. Weatherford Hall in background with crowd in attendance. Photographs can be seen in the 1941 OSC Beaver Yearbook, page 95, some were not used in publication.
OSC Cadets in review on parade field passing Governor Sprague and other dignitaries. Prior dating of the event to May of 1941 is possible based on uniforms. Good detail of cadet drill team marching past reviewing stand, with command "eyes left". Guidon cadet lowering unit flag for review. Patch on uniforms may lead to a positive dating. Photographs can be seen in the 1941 OSC Beaver Yearbook, page 95.
Large grouping of students and military personnel posed on steps of Memorial Union. Prior identification of photo dates it to October of 1942. Two conifer trees adjacent to steps of MU (approx 15-20 feet) could possibly date photo. Everyone seems to be in winter clothing.
2 cadet officers and NCO advisor pulling ballots for the Military Ball, probably 1942-43. Ballots for the "Little Colonel" queen of the ball. Dress uniforms indicate WWII vintage. Location of photograph is in the Memorial Union.
President August L. Strand and military officers reviewing cadet color guard on parade, circa 1944. The Colonel is wearing the late WWII "Ike" Jacket, other officers wearing WWII vintage dress uniforms. Military review of cadet formations on parade grounds adjacent to Weatherford Hall. Possible use of these negatives for the Beaver Yearbook (this photo unpublished, but others of the same event are in 1945 Beaver)
US Army officers reviewing cadets on parade field, circa 1944. The Colonel reviewing cadets is wearing the late WWII "Ike" jacket uniform coat. Other officers indicate late WWII dress uniform coats. Cadets are on parade field adjacent to Weatherford hall, formations are lined up for inspection by commander. Possible use for the Beaver Yearbook (this photo unpublished, but others of the same event are in 1945 Beaver)
Officer shaking hand of man (Marshall Schuld?) with medal. Unconfirmed identification, possibly a stock photo used in Oregon Stater during period? Military uniform of colonel is WWII or later vintage.
Unconfirmed description of a review for Captain Beard, circa 1945. Line of military officers are in late WWII dress uniforms including the late war "Ike" jacket. Possible use of the negatives for the Beaver Yearbook (this photo unpublished, but others of the same event are in 1945 Beaver)
Army officer swearing in a group of young men on campus
Two US Army officers, identified as the ROTC Commandants, 1945 named Scott and Webster. Uniforms are correct for the post 1944 issue of the short "Ike" jacket.
Group shot of five military officers (2 Navy, 2 Army, 1 USMC). Possibly the assigned military personnel to OSC ROTC program.
Group of 11 ROTC personnel with rifles saluting, taken in front of Armory. Uniforms indicate WWII vintage, men are wearing garrison caps.
Squad of ROTC Cadets with company commander at attention with rifles. Men are wearing the standard garrison caps and class A tunics. The rifles are M1903 Springfield, issued to cadet units.
OSC ROTC Cadet band playing on parade field with conductor standing on chairs. WWII Era uniform style on conductor shows belted tunic and standard service cap.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations.
Cadets running on parade field with rifles, demonstration of tactics.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations. Circa dating of uniforms would indicate early WWII period.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations. Circa dating of uniforms would indicate early WWII period.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations. Circa dating of uniforms would indicate early WWII period.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations. Unfortunately the Governor's hat is covering his face, preventing positive identification.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations. Possibly President Strand is following him (Unconfirmed).
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. OSC Band playing on parade field with dignitaries in background.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing OSC cadet band marching.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Cadet formations marching on parade field, with cadet band playing.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Cadet companies and band on parade field.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague reviewing cadet formations in background. Small girl walking on parade field in photo foreground.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague congratulating cadet officers in formation.
US Navy officer swearing in new recruits. The Navy V-12 and Army ASTP programs on OSC campus are listed on reverse of print item P002:489. This photo appears on pg. 235 of the 1943 OSC Beaver Yearbook.
Same view as P002:489a. US Navy officer swearing in new recruits. The Navy V-12 and Army ASTP programs on OSC campus are listed on reverse of photo. This photo appears on pg. 235 of the 1943 OSC Beaver Yearbook.
Navy officer seated at table speaking to group of recruits/cadets. Photograph is related to P002:490 with same group of students. Circa dating based on previous photograph being used in 1942 Beaver Yearbook.
Group of military officers (Navy and Army are seen) on stage speaking to group. The location is possibly the Memorial Union Ballroom. Grand piano is seen offstage. Photo is probably in the same small group of recruit photos.
Four college coed females with Army rifles. Previous description dates photograph to April 1943. The rifles are US Military 1903 Springfield Bolt Action, with special after market adjustable peep sights, most likely used for the precision rifle team. Photograph appears to be staged for publicity shot, possibly in the Oregon Stater or Beaver Yearbook.
Four college coed females with Army rifles. Previous description dates photograph to April 1943. The rifles are US Military 1903 Springfield Bolt Action, with special after market adjustable peep sights, most likely used for the precision rifle team. Photograph appears to be staged for publicity shot, possibly in the Oregon Stater or Beaver Yearbook.
Group of cadet officers and NCO advisor pulling ballots for the Military Ball, probably 1942-43. Ballots for the "Little Colonel" queen of the ball. Photograph was probably produced for the Beaver yearbook (not published). Dress uniforms indicate WWII vintage. Location of photograph is in the Memorial Union.
One of OSC Artillery Unit's 75mm field guns on display outside Memorial Union. This photograph was used in college publications and was a finalist in a campus photo contest. The cadet and his girl behind the gun and officers in background indicate this scene may have been associated with the Military Ball held each year in the MU. Long evening gowns and dress uniforms also show formal affair.
Military Ball procession of officers and their dates/escorts. The decorations are similar to the published photos in the 1943 Beaver annual for the Military Ball event.
OSC ROTC cadet band on parade field, probably inspection day. This photograph is in the same grouping showing Governor Sprague and President Strand on reviewing field. Uniforms are consistent with circa dating of early WWII.
OSC ROTC cadet band on parade field, probably inspection day. This photograph is in the same grouping showing Governor Sprague and President Strand on reviewing field. This photo includes 3 small children following the marching band.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague and President Strand are seen reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague and President Strand are seen reviewing cadet formations.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Governor Sprague and President Strand are seen reviewing cadet formations.
Photo includes August Strand with ROTC officers reviewing passing cadet formations. Colonel on left is wearing the late war issue "Ike" jacket dating the photo to 1944 or later. Officers are unidentified.
Negative of P002:015. Photo includes August Strand with ROTC Military officers. Colonel on left shaking hands is wearing the late war issue "Ike" jacket dating the photo to 1944 or later. Probably taken on Inspection Day circa 1944. Good detail of uniforms and rank insignia. Officers are unidentified.
Officer making presentation to an older woman circa 1942. Location of photo appears to be in the Armory.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Cadet companies and band on parade field.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date. Cadet companies and band on parade field.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date.
ROTC Inspection Day, probably 1941. Other negatives in this grouping have notation of 1941 date.
ROTC Cadet officers in group around flags (OSC ROTC banners?). Photograph appears in the 1943 OSC Beaver yearbook.
Cadets in company formation on parade field, probably inspection day. Other photographs in this grouping show various cadets marching past reviewing stand of dignitaries.
Army officer swearing in a group of young men on campus. Photograph may have been used in OSC publication. Same negative as P002:068.
US Army Officers (probably ROTC Instructors) with a civilian clothed student (Cadet?) in front of memorial plaque to General McAlexander on Armory building.
President August L. Strand (1942-1961) with two US Army officers. One officer is wearing the late WWII short "Ike Jacket". Location unknown, possibly outside Memorial Union.
President August L. Strand (1942-1961) with two US Army officers. One officer is wearing the late WWII short "Ike Jacket". Location unknown, possibly outside Memorial Union. This view is related to P002:550, same subjects.
Photo includes August Strand with ROTC officers. Colonel on left shaking hands is wearing the late war issue "Ike" jacket dating the photo to 1944 or later. Good detail of uniforms and rank insignia. Officers are unidentified.
Photograph from Oregon State College Library Picture Collection. Presentation of a plaque to Army ROTC cadet. No identification on personnel in photograph.
Photo marked in pen "News Bureau Photo". Photo of cadets in line to enter Memorial Union, some holding text books and folders. Uniforms indicate WWII vintage, ties tucked into shirts, all men wearing folding "Cutter" caps. Photograph appears in the 1944 Oregon State Beaver Yearbook, page 202.
Stock photograph with marking "this belongs to John" written in pen at bottom. Large assembly of cadets, all seated in Men's Gym. Uniforms date photograph to WWII vintage.
Two officers standing in front of WWII Jeep, small child standing on hood between them. Unknown location possibly CBI Theater. WWII vintage Jeep and uniforms, khaki, long sleeve shirts. Possibly USMC or Navy officers.
Three Army personnel with WWII L-2 Grasshopper Reconnaissance aircraft. Caption on reverse written in pen "I have returned - Corregidor" dating photograph to late 1944 based on quote by General MacArthur on 20 October 1944. The three officers in photo are wearing WWII vintage khaki uniforms with long sleeves. The aircraft in photo is the Taylorcraft L-2 Grasshopper, a small observation aircraft.
Small print with Oregon Stater "100 screen zinc" written in pencil on reverse. Also stamped with Beaver Engraving Co. mark. Photo shows 3 older officers receiving medal from US Army Air Corps Major General. Shoulder patches on 2 men indicate the US China-Burma-India Theater of operations. Center Officer receiving medal is of Brigadier General rank. Connection to Oregon Stater is unknown.
Oregon State College Rifles Drill Team performing in Men's Gymnasium. Photo can be dated prior to 1950 when Gill Coliseum opens. Assembly of students viewing drill team. Rifles in use are 1903 Springfield bolt action. By the end of WWII this rifle was used mainly for ceremonial drill teams and US Army Snipers.
Small photo print, poor condition reverse shows glue residue from photo album. Cadet officer, wearing dress uniform inspecting a small squad of junior cadets with rifles. The rifles are 1903 Springfield Bolt action.
Small print in poor condition with a square cut out of bottom RH corner, glue residue on reverse. Parade field photo showing color guard and cadet leaders lined up with their unit pennants.
Stock photo from "Public Relations Section, Western Procurement Division, USMC, San Francisco, CA" Also includes Beaver Engraving Co. Stamp on reverse. The Oregon Stater is written in pencil with possible identification of photo, "Maj. Gen. Erskine, Graves B., Col. Wilson, John B." In bottom RH corner, note in pencil, "Mr. Martin - This is the "courteyous colonel" mentioned" John B. Wilson was a 1917 graduate of OAC. Photograph is found in February 1945 Oregon Stater Magazine, Page 7.
Seated group attending lecture. Military Captains in dress uniforms of WWII vintage. Unknown location of building, no identification of individuals in photo.
This print relates to the negatives P002:046-049 of a military review of cadets by then Governor Sprague, possible date, May 1941. Military parade of cadets marching in formation past reviewing stand with dignitaries. Uniforms date to early WWII era. Weatherford Hall in background of parade field has scaffolding on center tower as seen in other photographs of this vintage. Parade field would be southwest of the rear of building. Formations of cadets marching past reviewing stand in good detail, with dignitaries in background. Photographs can be dated to the Oregon State Beaver Yearbook, 1941, page 95.
Stock photo of three college coed females with Army rifles. Previous description dates photograph to April 1943. The rifles are US Military 1903 Springfield Bolt Action, with special after market adjustable peep sights, most likely used for the precision rifle team. Photograph appears to be staged for publicity shot, possibly in the Oregon Stater or Beaver Yearbook (not found in 1943 edition). The military ball in the spring of 1943 hosted a competition for women as a "Little Colonel" for the event. Previous description of this photograph lists the women as "Little Colonel selection, April 1943" The 1944 Oregon Beaver Yearbook page 53 lists the women's names.
Stock US Army head shot. Portrait of Brigadier General Thomas M. Robbins, probably early WWII. Promoted to Major General, Robbins was involved in the Manhattan Project as the head of the Corps of Engineers Construction Division, with a deputy commander, Gen. Leslie Groves (who ended up running the project to develop the Atomic Bomb). Connection to Oregon State College is unclear, this photograph is a stock US Army portrait, and may have been used by OSC publications or ROTC department.
US Navy officer swearing in new recruits. The Navy V-12 and Army ASTP programs on OSC campus are listed on reverse of photo. This photo appears on pg. 235 of the 1943 OSC Beaver Yearbook.
Army ROTC Cadets marching in formation with cadet band playing in foreground. Officers in reviewing stand have the late WWII "Ike Jackets", dress uniforms of the cadets are of WWII vintage. Parade field by Withycombe Hall, probably Inspection/Graduation day exercises.
Seated group of ROTC Cadets, professional photograph, possibly used in OSC publications. Notation on back "Pete Vogel Company E". Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Seated group of ROTC Cadets, professional photograph, possibly used in OSC publications. Notation on back "Company F". Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Seated group of ROTC Cadets, professional photograph, possibly used in OSC publications. Notation on back "Company A". Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Seated group of ROTC Cadets, professional photograph, possibly used in OSC publications. Notation on back "Company D". Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Seated group of ROTC Cadets, professional photograph, possibly used in OSC publications. Notation on back "Company D". Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground. Of special interest is a rather rotund NCO seated in middle of group photo, with his dog (company mascot?)
Group photo of Company A, OSC ROTC Cadet corps, on steps of Memorial Union. Cadets are all wearing dress uniforms with garrison caps. Standing at attention, this group photo is probably a graduation photo.
First try at a photograph of Company G, OSC ROTC Cadets. Solider in front row, far left is blinking...let's try another (which appears as P002:562). Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Final product of a photograph of Company G, OSC ROTC Cadets. Solider in front row, far left is did not blink this time. (which appears as P002:561). Cadets are all wearing Garrison Caps. Center subjects in front row are US Army personnel assigned to OSC for cadet training. Photo is of group seated on bleachers with wooden walkway in foreground.
Army and Navy ROTC Cadet officers shaking hands. Uniform of Army cadet still has the cloth belt over the jacket which dates to prior 1955, Navy dress jacket is standard issue, no date possible. The reverse notation on the photo written in pen "Major Glenn W. Rodney (R) congratulating Mids Ens John C. Kempf (L). His platoon won platoon competition" No date is listed with caption.
Posed grouping of cadets, four seated with coed in center with 5 standing behind. Taken in the Memorial Union lounge room. Uniform coats are the standard Pattern 1941 field jackets with ties tucked into second/third button on shirts. The group photo is most likely done for yearbook or OSC Barometer publication.
Photographs in this series illustrate the changes to the OSU ROTC Department after World War II. The bulk of these photographs can be found in various Oregon State publications such as the Oregon Stater alumni magazine, Barometer campus newspaper, and Beaver yearbooks. This series contains a large number of OSU ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team photos from the early 1960s. Pre-Vietnam War era military equipment is also featured from a display at Ft. Lewis, Washington during 1962. Stock US Military photographs used in OSU publications are also in this series.
Oregon State College ROTC Pershing Rifles Regiment cadet visit for training at Ft. Lewis, Washington dated April 1963. Photographs in series of activities and US Army equipment on display. Photographs of cadets and officers at Fort Lewis, Washington. Of note is displays of then state of the art US Army mechanized vehicles. Good detail in photographs of various tanks, missiles and radar equipment. Cadets are shown in chow lines, barracks and with US Army equipment for training. Pershing Rifles Cadets in drill competition photographs included in sub series.
Oregon State College ROTC Army cadet visit for training at Ft. Lewis, Washington dated April 1963. Cadets shaving in barracks.
US Army Colonel and Captain in fatigue uniforms with field caps, inspecting barracks with cadets in background. Captain has name tag "Dorsch, D." on uniform.
Cadet in chow line at Ft. Lewis in civilian clothes, unidentified.
Four cadets in chow line at Ft. Lewis, civilian clothes, unidentified.
US Army Officers walking in display area on Ft. Lewis with barracks buildings in background.
Officers viewing Pershing Rifles Regimental Headquarters building. Sign has the unit shield and the military command emblem. Building is the standard WWII era barracks/utility style, single story.
US Army Colonel shaking the hand of Cadet officer in front of Pershing Rifles Regimental Head Quarters.
OAC Cadets in line wearing civilian clothes on Ft. Lewis.
2 cadets in fatigue uniforms in office on Ft. Lewis. One cadet is on telephone with the other looking over his shoulder.
Photograph taken through vehicle window while on tour of USAF McChord AFB, adjacent to Ft. Lewis. Photograph of a USAF C124C Globemaster cargo aircraft of the 1950-1970 era.
Colonel and two other officers inspect M41A1 Walker Bulldog Tank with senior NCO at attention with display.
Officers viewing a M-113 APC (armored personnel carrier) with NCO attending.
Display of US Army self propelled 105mm Howitzer M52. This was an improved version of the Self Propelled artillery on the M42 Patton Tank chassis with an enclosed (protected) turret, state of the art for the era. Used in Viet Nam and later.
Display of US Army mobile artillery, The M56 Scorpion was an unarmored American self-propelled anti-tank gun, which featured a 90mm M54 gun with a simple blast shield, and unprotected crew compartment. It was meant to be transported by helicopter or by air drop.
Display of US Army standard M41A1 Walker Bulldog light tank. Developed to replace the M24 Chaffee, this vehicle was mounted with a 76mm gun.
M-60A-1 Patton Tank. A new design, produced from 1960-1987, this vehicle is brand new. The display vehicle has a unit number and shield painted on turret.
Cadet in civilian letterman's jacket viewing a Fire Control System M-35 at Ft. Lewis display. This fire control system was state of the art in 1963, used for calculating firing solutions for artillery, the ROTC Cadet could possibly use this equipment while in the military.
This display of a M-51 or later designation (1963) of MGR-3A "Little John" missile is of note, as cutting edge equipment for the US military. This rocket was unguided and capable of nuclear or conventional war heads. This is a rare and clear photograph of this piece of military equipment of the cold war era.
The Honest John missile on display here (M-50) is an unguided, nuclear capable ballistic missile used by the US Army until as late as 1982. This display on Ft. Lewis shows the configuration of the heavy truck chassis and missile launcher unit.
Display of the standard US Army heavy artillery, M1A1 155mm Howitzer. In use from WWI through the present day, this is the improved version produced in the 1950s. Senior NCO in foreground with cadets viewing.
Cadet viewing display of the standard M-30 4.2 inch Mortar. Developed in the early 1950s, this weapon is still in use today.
This display of the Battlefield Surveillance Radar System is quite advanced for the period. This system could be deployed on the front lines to monitor battlefield movements.
Display of the M-29 81mm light infantry Mortar. Developed in 1952 and was in service through the early 1980s. Cadet in civilian clothes is receiving instruction from Ft. Lewis soldier.
Display of the M-40A1 106 mm Recoilless Rifle mounted on US Army Jeep. Cadets in civilian clothes looking on as Ft. Lewis soldier gives instruction.
Series of four photographs of the operation of the M-48 AVLB "Bridge Layer" tank system (P002:219-222). Showing the extension of the 60 foot folding bridge carried on a modified chassis of the M-48/M-60 Patton Tank. Developed by the Germans during WWII, this type of engineering vehicle made it possible for heavy equipment and tanks to cross small streams. The four photographs show the deployment of the system.
Series of four photographs of the operation of the M-48 AVLB "Bridge Layer" tank system (P002:219-222). Showing the extension of the 60 foot folding bridge carried on a modified chassis of the M-48/M-60 Patton Tank. The four photographs show the deployment of the system.
Series of four photographs of the operation of the M-48 AVLB "Bridge Layer" tank system (P002:219-222). Showing the extension of the 60 foot folding bridge carried on a modified chassis of the M-48/M-60 Patton Tank. The four photographs show the deployment of the system.
Series of four photographs of the operation of the M-48 AVLB "Bridge Layer" tank system (P002:219-222). Showing the extension of the 60 foot folding bridge carried on a modified chassis of the M-48/M-60 Patton Tank. The four photographs show the deployment of the system. The final photo in series showing the bridge in its extended position.
Two cadets, one in uniform carrying a 1903 Springfield Rifle and suitcase arriving at Ft. Lewis, dated April 1963.
Two cadets in civilian clothes getting off bus at Ft. Lewis. Two story barracks building in background.
Photograph of World War One Memorial to the 91st Division from Ft. Lewis.
Award presentation with trophies on stage. Cadets in audience are in civilian clothes.
Stock US Army Photo 8x10. Stock photo of sorority sponsors for the cadets (their escorts) at the military ball associated with the 11th Regiment of the Pershing Rifles National Honor Society, 19 April 1963, Ft. Lewis, Washington. The military photographer has identified the women in a typed description.
"11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles: Sponsors; (L-to-R) Miss Kay Huktanen, University of Gonzaga, Spokana(sic) Washington; Miss Sherry Doyle (Regimental Sponsor), Seattle University, Seattle, Washington; Miss Carol Williams, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon and Miss Michelle Morrison, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon. US Army Photograph - photographer Sp4 William L. Durfee 124th Signal Battalion
Stock photo of sorority sponsors for the cadets (their escorts) at the military ball associated with the 11th Regiment of the Pershing Rifles National Honor Society, 19 April 1963, Ft. Lewis, Washington. The military photographer has identified the women and cadets in a typed description.
"11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles: Sponsors and their escorts: (L-to-R) Cadet Al S. Gallinaro, Miss Kay Huktanen, University of Gonzaga, Spokana(sic) Washington, Cadet Larry D. Fahey, Miss Sherry Doyle (Regimental Sponsor), Seattle University, Seattle, Washington, Miss Carol Williams, Cadet Fred J. Loomis, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon, Miss Michelle Morrison, Cadet George F. Zimmer, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon." "US Army Photograph - photographer Sp4 William L. Durfee 124th Signal Battalion"
Stock US Army Photograph of the ROTC 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles visit to Ft. Lewis Washington, April 1963. The Pershing Rifles National Honor Society sponsors competition events for ROTC College Military Drill Teams. Oregon State attended this event with other ROTC units of the 11th Regiment of the Pershing Rifles. The US Army stock photographs is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Bullets Drill Team of the 1st Battle Group, 8th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis Washington going though one of their drills, during the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles (ROTC) Drill Competition which was held at Fort Lewis, Washington."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion (spelling intact from photo): "Tropley stand, the diffen Tropleys that were given out to the diffen University of the 11th Regiment of Pershing rifles. Standing in the background is Sp4 Harold A. Sullivan, 1st Battle Group, 12th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, Washington." Of special note is the engraving on the large first place trophy which lists "OSU 1961-62" as winners.
Stock US Army Photograph of the ROTC 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles visit to Ft. Lewis Washington, April 1963. The Pershing Rifles National Honor Society sponsors competition events for ROTC College Military Drill Teams. The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Cadet of Washington State University, Pullman, Washington, reports to Col. John W. MacIndoe, Commanding Officer, 2nd Battle Group, 39th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis Washington, during the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Drill Competition, which was held at Fort Lewis, Washington."
Stock US Army Photograph of the ROTC 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles visit to Ft. Lewis Washington, April 1963. The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "University of Oregon, of Eugene, Oregon, taking part in the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Drill competition which was held at Fort Lewis, Washington."
Stock US Army Photograph of the ROTC 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles visit to Ft. Lewis Washington, April 1963. The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Second Place Winners of the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Drill competition, which was held at Fort Lewis, Washington, Drill team is, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Talking about the diffen(sic) Drill Teams, are L-to-R, Maj. Horace E. Pierce, 10th Corp ROTC Affairs Officer, Col. Walther A. Guntharp, Commanding Officer, 1st Battle Group, 12th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis Washington and Col. John W. MacIndoe, Commanding Officer, 2nd Battle Group, 39th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis Washington."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "(L-to-R) Maj. Horace E. Pierce, 10th Corp ROTC Affairs Officer and Col. Walter A. Guntharp, Commanding Officer, 1st Battle Group, 12th Infantry, 4th Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, Washington, talking over about the drill teams."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Stc Calvin Havens, Mess Sgt. Hq. Co. 12th Inf 1 st Battle Group, 4th Infantry Div Fort Lewis Washington, explains to (L-to-R) Cadet Roger Stubbs, Cadet Maj. Roger Johnson, Cadet Rod commons and Cadet Col. Dell Ball the duties of a mess Sgt."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 Conrad R. Cheatham of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Sp4 George Howell, E Co., 1st Battle Group, 12th inf 4th Inf Div explains the 81 mm mortar to the cadets of Oregon State College."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Gonzaga University, of Spokana(sic) Washington, taking part in the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Drill Competition which was held at Fort Lewis Washington."
The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Third place winners of the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Drill competition, which was held at Ft. Lewis, Washington; Drill team is, University of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska."
Collection of photographs of the ROTC 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles visit to Ft. Lewis Washington, April 1963. The US Army stock photograph is annotated on the reverse in blue carbon typing by the photographer, Sp4 William L. Durfee of the 124th Signal Battalion. "Sfc Jerald Mc Kinley (R), explains to Cadet Col. Dell Ball, Cadet Maj. Roger Johnson, Cadet Roger Stubbs of Oregon State College the 30 cal Machine Gun."
Standard head shot of coed sponsor for the OSC Pershing Rifles 11th regiment. Identification on reverse: "Eleventh Regiment, Miss Molly Perry, Honorary Sponsor Eleventh Regiment, Sponsored by Company E-11, Oregon State University" The "year" 62 is written in pen on reverse as well.
Grouping of negatives and prints showing scenes of the OSU Pershing Rifles Drill team in competitions. One group of photos is identified as: Sand Point Naval Air Station, April 1962. Negatives are of various drill team formations inside the hangar. Showing the grandstands with spectators and the large doors with windows of the hangar, the negatives may have been used in OSU Barometer or ROTC Pershing Rifles publications.
11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles, University of Idaho Drill team in formation at unidentified location. Other photographs in this series are from drill team competitions that OSC attended. This photo is probably related to P002:279 and a competition sponsored by the University of Idaho. Date unknown, circa 1962
OSC Cadet officers displaying trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. Photo is marked on reverse: Major Lee Adams and Capt. Gary Butler, 11th Reg. Hq."
OSC Cadet officers displaying trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. Photo is marked on reverse:"Col. Jerome Jacoby, Lt. Col. Douglas hirfe (ex O.) Capt. Gary Butler (PIO) 11th Reg Hq"
Caption on reverse: "Company E-11's crack drill team performs during the halftime intermission at a basketball game in Portland. Commanding Officer is 2nd Lt. Bill Myers." There is also a request to: "Please return this picture to: Commanding Officer, Company E-11, Oregon State University, Corvallis, Oregon" The drill team is in full dress uniforms with white tennis shoes (to protect Gym floor).
Caption on reverse: "Co. E-11 Oregon State U. Varsity Drill Team on exhibition(sic). Also marked as 62-63 RGT 395. Photo of Drill Team formation on gym floor, full dress uniforms and white tennis shoes.
Company E-11 OSU Pershing Rifles standing inspection by cadet officers. Photo is marked on reverse: "Co. E-11 Oregon State Univ, Freshman Drill team standing inspection"
Cadet officers inspection of OSU Freshman Drill Team on campus, November 1963. Photo is related to P002:572 from a different angle.
Drill competition location at Sand Point Naval Air Station in 1962. Interior shot of the hangar showing where the grand stand would be located.
Drill competition location at Sand Point Naval Air Station in 1962. Exterior view of the Hangar building.
ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill competition location at Sand Point Naval Air Station in 1962. Interior shot of the hangar. Military trailers in photo.
ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill competition location at Sand Point Naval Air Station in 1962. Interior shot of the hangar. 4 cadet officers of OSU ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill team in photo, three are identified on reverse. Left to Right, Rod Stubbs, John Wilson, Jack Miller, CO for B-11 (unidentified cadet officer of another college unit) Noted as "this was taken Wed 11 April in the Hangar"
Drill team with rifles in formation.
Line of cadets at attention.
Cadets in formation, passing rifles down the line.
Drill team marching in circle formation.
Close order drill formation.
Drill team passing rifles, chrome helmets.
Close order drill formation.
Marching team with rifles.
Cadet saluting officer in review. Female officer in photo.
Column of cadets marching in formation, close order drill.
Leader of drill team receiving trophy from female officer, formation in background.
Trophy presentation to drill team leader dressed in fatigue uniform. Female officer presenting.
Inspection of drill team by officer, checking rifles.
Formation of cadets at attention with rifles at right shoulder arms. Awaiting inspection by officers.
Inspection by US Army officer of cadet's M-1 Garand rifle.
Formation of drill team cadets waiting for inspection.
Another view of officer inspecting cadet's M-1 Garand rifle.
Formation of cadets at attention with rifles at side, waiting for inspection.
Rifle inspection by cadet officer with clip board.
Cadet formation saluting officer.
Group of officers reviewing cadets.
Formation of cadets at attention with rifles raised.
Cadets marching in formation with rifles.
Cadets marching in formation with rifles.
Series of 20 color slides of the OSU Army ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team in various formations during their performance. Photos include marching drills, with rifle "tricks", and inspections of weapons and uniforms by officers. Uniforms depicted are dress coats with chrome helmets, khakis with berets and white laced boots. It is not certain if all drill units are from Oregon State, but the different uniforms and groups are probably separate platoons or companies within the Pershing Rifles Regiment in attendance. Also included are slides of the Military Ball including coed sponsors and their escorts. Many of the slides have been reproduced for publication in OSC and Pershing Rifles periodicals. The original packaging of this series was the mailing box from the processing laboratory. Addressed to Rod Commons, 301 Waldo Hall, Corvallis Oregon. Photocopy of box label maintained in file, slides transferred to protective sleeves.
Color 35mm Slide. OSU Army ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team in various formations during their performance.
Military ball, Ft. Lewis WA, April 1963
Military Ball including coed sponsors and their escorts.
Slide of the Military Ball including coed sponsors and their escorts.
Military Ball including coed sponsors and their escorts.
Trophy presentation with coed sponsors, Ft. Lewis 1963
Military Ball, Ft. Lewis trophy presentation
Trophy presentation, Ft. Lewis 1963
OSU Army ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team in various formations during their performance.
Trophy display table, Ft. Lewis Drill Competition, April 1963.
Military Ball, Ft. Lewis Coed Sponsors
Military Ball, Ft. Lewis Coed Sponsors.
Drill team on floor at Ft. Lewis 1963
Rifle inspection at competition, Ft. Lewis 1963
Drill team on Floor, Ft. Lewis 1963
Trophy presentation, Ft. Lewis competition, 1963.
OSU Army ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team in various formations during their performance.
Drill team in performance
Trophy presentation, Ft. Lewis 1963
Drill team competition, Ft. Lewis 1963.
Group of 15 color and b/w prints of the OSU ROTC Pershing Rifles Drill Team in various formations during their performance. Photos include marching drills, with rifle "tricks", and inspections of weapons and uniforms by officers. Uniforms depicted are dress coats with chrome helmets, khakis with berets and white laced boots. Some photos show full dress uniforms and white tennis shoes (to protect gym floor?). One of the images is available online.
sub series contains stock photographs of Coed Sponsors (Escorts to Military Banquets and Balls). Competition for Queens used these photographs for promotional materials. Some photographs of Cadets in dress uniforms with Coed Sponsors may have been used in OSU publications. Many of the photographs are stock 8x10 portraits, taken by US Army Photographers. Names of coeds are listed where available.
Photo shows 3 coeds in a posed portrait. Caption reads: L to R Miss Susan Schumacher, Miss Phillis Mullan, Miss Julie Holm, Pershing Rifles Sponsors" Dated 22 Jan 1962, photo by Mr. Loyal Lauritzen, Signal Photo Lab, US Army Garrison, Fort Lawton, Washington.
Studio photograph of Brenda Lucille Droll, Company B - 11th Regiment. She has honors received listed as "Honorary company commander, Company B, 11th Regt. and Cadet Captain of Coed Sponsor Corps (Newly organized). She is listed as age 19years, Sophomore, Major Education and hometown of Seattle Washington. The photo is from Walters Studio, Seattle Washington.
Portrait of Valerie Haener, candidate for Queen, ROTC Pershing Rifles Military Ball, Seattle University. Photographer Kay Alderson, Signal Photo Lab, US Army Garrison, Fort Lawton, Washington.
US Army photograph of Pershing Rifles Queen, Sara Griffith, Company B-11, University of Washington. Photographer Mr. Loyal Lauritzen, Signal Photo Division, US Army Garrison, Fort Lawton, Washington. This photograph may be related to the OSC visit to the 1961 Pershing Rifles Drill Team Competition and was included in a press packet sent to Oregon State. Date of photograph 21 Jan 1964 places this event in the 1963-64 ROTC year.
11th Regiment Sponsor, Miss Delores Llewellyn, C-11, University of Idaho. This photograph may be related to the OSC visit to the 1961 Pershing Rifles Drill Team Competition and was included in a press packet sent to Oregon State. Date of photograph 2 Feb 61 places this event in the 1961-62 ROTC year, which Oregon State won first place at competition of drill teams.
Stock studio portrait of 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles coed sponsor from 1957-58 year, Kaye Tomlinson.
Dated November 1963, US Army photo of "The ten semi-finalists for Pershing and Rifles Queen, are from left to right, Miss Linda Nielson, Miss Linda Nethercup, Miss Brenda Lee, Miss Judy Crossett, Miss Judy Burke, Miss Cindy Thal, Miss Sara Griffith, Miss Joy Prosser, Miss Betsy Roberts and Miss Jo Ann Horn; Army ROTC, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington." In pencil, "The princesses are Miss Linda Nethercup, Miss Cindy Thal, Miss Joy Prosser and Miss Jo Ann Horn." Photograph taken by SP/5 Leroy Sundberg, Signal Photo Division, US Army Garrison, Fort Lawton, Washington. Date of photograph Nov 1963 places this event in the 1962-63 ROTC year, which Oregon State College Drill Team attended competition at Ft. Lewis.
Listed as entry to Sponsor Contest 1956. Identification in lower left corner in pencil "Evelyn Ribary, sponsored by Company D, 11th Regiment, State College of Washington." Photo is stamped Midway Photo Shop, 802 Colorado, Pullman Washington.
Studio portrait of 11th Regiment Coed Sponsor from early 1960s. Identified as Janette Rees, Sponsor Co. B-11, University of Washington. Photograph is in same series of head shots of coed sponsors, probably for candidate for Queen of Military Ball.
Print 4x5. Navy ROTC Cadet officer, Erskine Austin and his escort Melinda Rickson at the Navy Ring Dance, circa1960. Two copies of photo, one marked on reverse with "Barometer Photo" stamp, dated 4/6 (no year).
Posed photograph of ROTC officer cadets at military ball, circa 1960. All services represented, with coed sponsor at center. Uniforms of the post WWII style, with bow ties and shoulder braids. Naval officers in dress whites.
Stock studio portrait. Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus. Photos were used in competition for Queen.
Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus. Photos were used in competition for Queen. Notation on reverse: "This photo for article in "Pershing Rifleman" from Company C-11."
Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus. Photos were used in competition for Queen.
Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus. Photos were used in competition for Queen.
Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus.
Identified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. Listed as Michelle Morrison, OSU 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles Sponsor. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus.
Unidentified coed sponsor of the 11th Regiment, Pershing Rifles. The portrait is similar to others in collection of the young women acting as escorts to the Pershing Rifles military balls held on campus.
Group photo of six Pershing Rifles Coed Sponsors, unidentified, circa 1960 Poor quality photo of group, some of the coeds appear in portraits attached to this sub series.
Mixed collection of personal snapshots with negatives during 1961 year. Various photos of Army ROTC Cadets and OSU campus buildings.
Random shot of cadet formation with cadet officer in overcoat. Photo is marked on reverse "C-11"
Unidentified photo of private plane at airport with pilot checking engine. Control tower is in background, unable to determine if location is Corvallis Airport. Negative is in series which has prints dated to November 1961
Formation of cadets being inspected, dated November 1961
Single trophy from military competition with ruler at base. Trophy base is 12 inches. Photograph is dated Sep 1961 and is in the same grouping with sub series.
Similar photograph of private aircraft at unidentified location. Two negatives attached together, one appears to have the engine cowling open and one does not. Control tower in background is unidentified.
Negative of Pershing Rifles Drill Team practicing marching somewhere on campus, 1961. Photo is related to P002:761 print from a closer angle. Men are wearing mixed clothes, including civilian jackets.
Pershing Rifles drill team practicing close order drill on campus, November 1961. Members of team are wearing uniforms and some in civilian jackets. Photo is related to negative: P002:760 print from a different angle.
Unidentified location on campus showing formation of ROTC Cadets. Dating consistent with grouping from 1961.
Unidentified location, possibly during ROTC visit to University of Idaho for Drill competition. In distance, the troops are on an open field near a larger hangar type building. Dated November 1961.
Photo of construction site of multiple story building. Possibly OSU dorms, windows at far left are similar. Date of photo should be consistent with the 1961 grouping.
Photo of construction site of multiple story building. Possibly OSU dorms, windows at far left are similar. Date of photo should be consistent with the 1961 grouping. View similar to P002:764 negative.
Photo of campus buildings, possibly churches on Monroe street. Unidentified buildings
Unidentified campus buildings, possibly churches on Monroe Street. Photo is with grouping from 1961.
Photo of campus buildings, possibly churches on Monroe street. Unidentified buildings
Photo of unidentified campus building. Not an OSU building, however, the Pershing Rifles Drill team visited other colleges for competitions, circa 1961
Cadet company formation on parade field. Of note is the two officers in front of formation wearing civilian overcoats and no uniforms. Date is consistent with 1961 grouping of photos.
Aerial photograph from private plane, probably over Willamette Valley. Photo is in grouping from 1961.
Aerial photograph from private plane, probably over Willamette Valley. Photo is in grouping from 1961.
Aerial photograph from private plane, probably over Willamette Valley. Photo is in grouping from 1961.
Photo of two ROTC Cadets in dress uniforms outside of hotel room(?) in 1961. Taken while Pershing Rifles Drill Team was visiting another campus for competition in 1961.
Random shot of cadet formation with cadet officer in overcoat. Photo is marked on reverse "C-11" Photo is printed at P002:755
ROTC Cadet in hotel room with cigarette. Photo from visit to another campus of Pershing Rifles Drill Team in 1961. Luggage in room, uniforms hung neatly in back ground.
Drill team practice, some men in uniform, some in civilian clothes. Unidentified location, probably while visiting another campus for drill team competition 1961.
Hotel room at unidentified location. Cadet's beer and Look Magazine are on the desk in room. Great period photograph of a typical hotel room. Black and white TV on aluminum stand, vinyl chairs. Probably taken while Pershing Rifles were at Drill Team competition at another campus of the 11th Regiment.
Field of competition for Pershing Rifles Drill Teams. Some civilian spectators and formations of cadets. Some cadets are in civilian clothes in group.
Collection of 4x5 negatives, various subjects during the Cold War (1946-1965) years. Many of the negatives correspond with prints in this series. Some of the negatives are related to the prints as different views, same topics. Arranged numerically within the sub series folder. Specific negatives related to sub series on Pershing Rifles drill teams are filed in those folders.
Retirement ceremony for Captain Harry L. Beard, OSC band leader. Cadet companies and band on parade field. Photograph appears on page 54, 1946 Beaver Yearbook.
Retirement ceremony for Captain Harry L. Beard, OSC band leader. Cadet companies and band on parade field. Photo appears on page 54, 1946 Beaver Yearbook.
Retirement ceremony for OSC Band director Captain Harry L. Beard. Another view of this vehicle appears in 1946 Beaver Yearbook page 54. Cadet companies and band on parade field.
Retirement ceremony for Captain Harry L. Beard, OSC Band leader. US Army officer wearing late WWII "Ike Jacket" style uniform shaking hands identified as Colonel Webster with Beard during event. Another view of this negative appears on page 54, 1946 Beaver Yearbook.
Unidentified US Army NCO at retirement ceremony. Uniform dates to post 1944 period. Previous description lists date of June 1947. This Army NCO has served 3 tours overseas (WWII probably) and has 9 enlistment stripes on sleeve of his "Ike" jacket dress uniform. Possible use of the negatives for the Beaver Yearbook or the Oregon Stater magazine.
US Army Colonel (possibly Webster) shaking the hand of retiring NCO. Related to P002:512
Display of trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. this photograph appears to show the 3 place trophies, probably before presentation. Same trophies as appear in P002:742
Display of trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. this photograph appears to show the 3 place trophies, probably before presentation. Duplicate of P002:742
Display of trophy from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. this photograph appears to show the 3 place trophies, probably before presentation. Related to photo display of trophies P002:742.
This photograph shows the facade of the McAlexander Field house prior to the development of the Kerr Administration building and adjacent parking lot.
Two duplicate prints. Photograph is identified with a 1951 date. Military uniforms of USMC officer and NCO are of that vintage. August L. Strand is presenting certificate to a Marine Corps cadet. Next cadet in line is US Navy.
Stock US Military publicity photo. Marked on reverse with Oregon Stater 29 pica wide, for publication in Oregon State College magazine, probably late WWII vintage, possibly could be post war, 1951 date also. Photograph is marked "Photographic Laboratory, US Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Florida". Photo includes 4 Naval officers , 3 wearing life vests with survival gear, talking under the wing of aircraft. Navy aircraft in back ground is the PBM Martin Mariner seaplane, in overall dark sea blue camouflage from 1945-1955 period, tail markings of "E E", also of post war vintage. Of special note is a navy seaman hanging/swinging from the rear of the fuel tank of the aircraft. (visible between seated officer on right and standing officer without life vest.) Photo is found in the Oregon Stater Magazine, February 1952, page 8.
Photograph has a 5" tear from the right hand side. Photo is in protective sleeve.
Stock photograph marked News Bureau Oregon State College, Administration Bldg, Corvallis Oregon. Photograph is marked in pencil 21 pica wide, Oregon Stater. The model bridge appears to be of the pontoon type that is built in the field by US Army Corps of Engineers. Cadet officer to the left of the group has two metal rank diamonds (junior?) on eplettes. Photograph is found on Page 8, February 1952, Oregon Stater Magazine.
Stock photographic print of US Army ROTC Cadets on parade field. Composition of photograph is of note, with officer at lower center with the formation of cadets performing command of Dress Right, at the top of the photograph.
Stock photo with Oregon State College Libraries photo file stamp on reverse. No information is filled in on photo file. Possible circa date of 1944 when grouped with similar style photos in collection. Six students in lounge area (possibly Memorial Union?) in 6 button double breasted dress uniforms. Navy ROTC patch is visible on sleeves of uniforms. Photograph appears in the 1946 OSC Beaver Yearbook.
Photograph marked "14x14 picas" in grease pencil on reverse. Beaver Engraving Co. stamp and #877. US Navy Captain presenting certificate to ROTC Cadet. Unknown location, interior shot.
Stock photograph stamped "Oregon State College Library Picture Collection". Photo of 4 US Navy ROTC Cadets standing in doorway. Dress dark blue uniforms with garrison caps.
Stock photograph from Oregon State College Library Picture Collection. Presentation of diploma to cadet by Dean Lemon. Officers uniforms date to 1950s vintage, all wearing garrison caps and standard dress tunics. Weatherford hall in background with good detail of vintage windows and trim. Students in crowd observing ceremony showing period dress for early 1950s.
Stock photograph, no stamp on reverse. President August L. Strand looks on as dignitary is shaking hand of ROTC cadet. Officers in dress uniforms looking on. Good view of Cadet officer rank insignias. Year markings and cadet rank insignia clearly in view on lapel and epaulets of uniform.
Photograph, Oregon State College Library Picture Collection stamp on reverse. Two Navy cadets pointing to ROTC emblems on uniform sleeve. Photograph appears on cover of Oregon Stater November 1945.
Official Photograph U.S. Air Force, dated 21 July 1952. Beaver Engraving Co. stamp and grease pencil size markings on reverse. Unidentified USAF Colonel, stock head shot, standard uniform shirt, with tie tucked. Officers lapel pins in good detail as is his pilot wings over left pocket.
OSC ROTC Engineers (US Army), with award plaque from Fort Leonard Wood. 2 cadets with dress uniforms, with officer (Lt. Colonel) and unidentified administrator looking on. Pencil marking on reverse indicate "Baro", photograph probably used in article for OSU Barometer newspaper.
Stock USAF print. Two USAF sergeants looking at radar screen with Santa and reindeer. Standard publicity stock photograph used for Christmas Eve reports of Santa being picked up on military radar. The Radar equipment in the photograph gives some indication to the era, probably mid 1960s.
clipped photo from print media mounted on display card. Small print, probably from yearbook photo of 4 members of the 1962 Distinguished Military Students awards. Display includes 4 cadets mounted on red and orange heavy card stock, probably displayed on bulletin board at McAlexander Field House. Cadet Joseph W. Maylie is displayed on upper left side of card.
clipped photo from print media mounted on display card. Display includes 4 cadets mounted on red and orange heavy card stock, probably displayed on bulletin board at McAlexander Field House. Cadet Paul E. Jarvis is displayed on lower left side of card.
clipped photo from print media mounted on display card. Display includes 4 cadets mounted on red and orange heavy card stock, probably displayed on bulletin board at McAlexander Field House. Cadet D.F. Spiesschaert is displayed on lower center of card.
clipped photo from print media mounted on display card. Display includes 4 cadets mounted on red and orange heavy card stock, probably displayed on bulletin board at McAlexander Field House. Cadet N. J. McLennan is displayed on lower right side of card.
Caption on reverse: "Maj. Gen. Edwin H. J. Carns inspects Pershing Rifles Honor Guard during visit to University of Idaho." Unclear as to identification of cadets in photo. Possibly an OSC unit of the Pershing Rifles attending Drill Competition in Idaho.
Pershing Rifles Drill Team (unknown unit, possibly University of Washington ROTC) and the ROTC band in formation at the placing of wreaths ceremonies, Daughters of the Revolution celebration at the George Washington memorial statue, University of Washington, 22 Feb, 1958. Stock US Army photograph by PFC Kenneth Strohecker, Signal Photo Lab, US Army Garrison, Fort Lawton, Washington. This photo possibly used in publications at Oregon State College, markings on reverse "11-D".
ROTC officers of Company B-11 (Pershing Rifles, University of Washington) in dress uniforms. Photograph is marked on reverse with publication size notations "30 picas", possible use with OSC ROTC publication, or for the Pershing Rifles National Honor Society publication.
Company D-11 (Pershing Rifles ROTC, Washington State College) marching in home coming parade in downtown Pullman Washington, 1957. Caption reads, "Co. D-11 sounds off during Washington State College Home Coming Parade." Photo is in series with other Pershing Rifles units during the period. Of note are the clear views of downtown Pullman Washington, showing businesses on parade route. Onlookers on roofs of buildings.
Oregon State College ROTC Cadet Doug Hirts receives briefing on operation of the M-41 Walker Bulldog Tank at Ft. Lewis exercise in April 1960. Photograph by Pfc Joseph J. Brown, Photographic Facility, US Army Garrison, Ft. Lewis Washington.
Print used for publication in Oregon State College Barometer possibly. The caption on reverse reads like a press release. "Left to Right: Cadet Lt. Col. Michael E. Moore, Oregon State College President, A. L. Strand, and Cadet Lt. Robert L. Gragg. Col. Moore is presenting to President Strand on behalf of the 11th Pershing Rifle Regiment the trophies awarded to the OSC Army Drill Team who recently won the 11th Regimental Drill Competition for 1960. President Strand congratulated Lt. Gragg and asked that he keep the trophies. the trophy on the left is the rotating trophy and will be kept by OSC for one year. The right trophy is the perm. trophy and will be kept by the Company. The trophies may be seen at the second floor trophy case near the Infantry Office (OSC Armory)." This photo is a cropping of P002:287 which is a wider view including the US Army staff officers assigned to ROTC unit. The wide shot of six individuals is not annotated on reverse with information.
Print used for publication in Oregon State College Barometer possibly. The caption on reverse reads like a press release. "Left to Right: Cadet Lt. Col. Michael E. Moore, Oregon State College President, A. L. Strand, and Cadet Lt. Robert L. Gragg. Col. Moore is presenting to President Strand on behalf of the 11th Pershing Rifle Regiment the trophies awarded to the OSC Army Drill Team who recently won the 11th Regimental Drill Competition for 1960. President Strand congratulated Lt. Gragg and asked that he keep the trophies. the trophy on the left is the rotating trophy and will be kept by OSC for one year. The right trophy is the perm. trophy and will be kept by the Company. The trophies may be seen at the second floor trophy case near the Infantry Office (OSC Armory)." This photo is a cropping of P002:287 which is a wider view including the US Army staff officers assigned to ROTC unit. The wide shot of six individuals is not annotated on reverse with information.
Photograph of US Army staff officer attached to the ROTC Program at Oregon State College in the 1960-62 era. Captain Williford is shown sitting at desk in the khaki dress uniform coat of the era. Photograph probably was used in a OSC publication or for the 11th Regiment of the Pershing Rifles.
OSC Cadet officers displaying trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. Photo is marked on reverse: "w/o Rodney Stubbs, Don Peerson, and Leroy Elam, 11th Reg. Hq."
Drill Team from Co. G-11, Pershing Rifles, at the University of Oregon, Eugene at parade rest. Photo is stamped on reverse: Photo by Karl Broom, Feb 8 1962"
Drill Team from Co. G-11, Pershing Rifles, at the University of Oregon, Eugene at parade rest. This photo is taken from an overhead view, showing formation of cadets. Photo is stamped on reverse: Photo by Karl Broom, Feb 8 1962"
Freshman Training Unit Company G-11, at the University of Oregon, Eugene at parade rest. This photo is taken from an overhead view, showing formation of cadets. Photo is stamped on reverse: Photo by Karl Broom, Feb 8 1962"
Posed group photo of Army ROTC Officers of the 1962-63 year. These men appear in other photos in this series. Identification of cadets is on reverse: "1st Row, L to Rt:, 1st Lt. Michael Kasner S-2, 1st Lt. Donald Pearson S-4, Col. Delbert Ball C.O., Capt. Rodney Stubbs S-3, 1st. Lt. Donald Page S-1, 2nd Row:, W/O (Warrant Officer) Duane Mahoney, W/O Rodney Commons, W/O Leigh Worthing, W/O John Watkinson, W/O Gene Sites, W/O Stephen Titus.
University of Alaska Pershing Rifles ROTC Company A-11 R. Painted door with Pledge flag colors. Caption on reverse explains: Pledges' Revenge: Pledges indignant over the loss of their pledge flag that was taken by the miners get revenge by painting a flag on the entrance to the University mine. P.I.O. photo."
University of Alaska, ROTC Pershing Rifles unit A-11. Caption on reverse: Pledge flag hung proudly on the campus water tower before it was stolen by the miners. University of Alaska Company A-11th Regiment, P.I.O. Photo."
Display of trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. This photograph appears to show the 3 place trophies, probably before presentation.
Display of trophies from the Drill Team Competition 1961-62 which the unit won first place. This photograph appears to show the 3 place trophies, probably before presentation. Duplicate of P002:742
ROTC meeting in legislative building (unidentified). ROTC Banners at both sides of head table. Speaker at lectern at center is unidentified.
Four Army ROTC officers posed photograph. Men are wearing dress uniforms of the circa 1960 time period. 3 officers are infantry and 1 Engineers based on collar badges. Seated officer name tag "Looney", two of the three standing officers, "West" and "Hirte".
Four Army ROTC officers in posed photograph outside door of the Pershing Rifles Headquarters, circa 1960. Same officers as described in P002:746; officer name tag "Looney", "West" and "Hirte". with one unidentified.
Unidentified group of six Army ROTC officers, posed photograph in dress uniforms. Markings on reverse list the photo as G-11, which is the Pershing Rifles regiment for University of Oregon, Eugene. Photo appears to be of 1960 vintage.
Two ROTC officers shaking hands, Barometer Photo 1/23/63. Stamped on back with date and marked "wed baro w/sotry" Uniforms indicate USAF Cadets based on badge on service cap on right.
US Army Colonel shaking hands with two men by a Piper civil aircraft. Marked on reverse with Barometer photo stamp, date of 4/7 with no year listed. Other markings state "ROTC" and "c.1960". Dating may be consistent based on uniform and type of Piper Colt, private airplane.
Dated March 1962, the Officers are with the drill team trophies won at the competition just prior to the Sand Point NAS meet. Unidentified cadets in this photo, others in Sand Point NAS sub series have names on reverse.
Dated March 1962, the Officers are with the drill team trophies won at the competition just prior to the Sand Point NAS meet. Unidentified cadets in this photo, others in Sand Point NAS sub series have names on reverse.
View of cadets with field packs and rifles climbing road a hill. Location is unidentified, but appears to be local based on trees/terrain. Men are wearing fatigues with field packs and carrying M-1 Garand rifles. Photo is dated March 1964.
Unidentified Army ROTC Cadet officer in dress uniform. Posed photograph outdoors. Uniform and badges are circa 1960, prior to issue of name badges to cadets.
Stock military photo, stamped on reverse: "Photo by United Technology Corp. (Photographic Dept.) Sunnyvale, Calif." No date listed. Photograph of a USAF missile rocket motor being tested in bunker on the side of a wooded hill. Photo was probably used for an article in the Oregon Stater, or for USAF ROTC training.
Five Air Force ROTC Cadets receiving award of cadet badges from USAF officer. Unidentified subjects in photo, USAF officer Colonel rand with pilots wings. Photo probably used for OSU publication.
US Army officer shaking hand of ROTC Cadet at unidentified ceremony. Cadet is in dress uniform with white laces in combat boots. Officer shaking hand is of Major or Lt. Colonel rank. Possibly a Pershing Rifles Drill Team awards ceremony as the cadet has ceremonial bloused trousers and white "ladder" lacing in his combat boots.
Army ROTC Cadets viewing german shepherd guard dog in kennel at unidentified base, circa 1960. Cadets are probably visiting Ft. Lewis for training. Overcoats and service caps are of the post 1955 vintage. This photograph was probably used for OSU publication.
USAF Crew Chief of military transport aircraft (Possibly C-130 Hercules) briefing OSU Cadets about cargo bay details. Air Force ROTC Cadets are wearing standard rain coats with rain covers on service caps. The USAF Crew chief is wearing flight suit with squadron badge on chest (unreadable in photo).
Two cadets (OSU ROTC) viewing the bore of a 155mm "Long Tom" Heavy Artillery piece on display at Ft. Lewis Washington. Photo is marked in pencil on reverse with "Oregon State", probably indicating the cadets are OSU ROTC. Stock publicity photograph, probably intended for OSU publication.
Dwight D. Eisenhower with 2 unidentified men in suits, holding book. The M.V. Seven Seas book is being looked at by the men, unknown connection to OSU. The MV Seven Seas was a cruise ship of the Europe-Canada line in the 1950s.
US Marine Corps officer swearing in a group of recruits while second officer looks on. Photograph can be dated to 1960-1963 based on the presidential photo of John F. Kennedy on wall behind cadets. Unknown location and subjects, presumably OSU cadets, in civilian clothing.
Stock photo for Barometer publication 4/14/1964. US Navy ROTC cadets viewing scale model ship in testing tank at OSU Lab, 1964. Photograph is stamped on reverse: "Barometer Photo, date to run: 4/14/64" and "Photo by D. McKellar"
University of Alaska Company A-11 of the 11th Regiment of Pershing Rifles. Caption of photo: "Cadets of Company A-11th Regiment of University of Alaska see the motor pool at Fort Wainwright in action. P.I.O. photo"
Caption on reverse: Task Forse(sic) Forty Three, XAM-31768-1-63, 15 Jan. 1963, Ens. Harold S. Hemphill USN, Assistant Photographic Officer of Air Development Squadron Six gets a bottle of water out of a seal hole at McMurdo Sound, Antarctica. the bottle of water is for ceremonial use in the United States. Credit line to read "Official U.S. Navy photograph by Photographers Mate Second Class (PH2) Thomas J. Regina PH2 USN" The officer in the photograph is probably an OSU ROTC Graduate, and the photo was forwarded on for publication.
ROTC Pershing Rifles freshman platoon marching on campus, 61-62 year. This photo is combined with the Sand Point Competition sub series, probably by the same photographer. Notes on reverse: "a freshman platoon of Ore. St. University E-11". Related photo to P002:442 which show this group in background behind drill team.
Photo of Pershing Rifles Co. E-11, Freshman drill team marching on campus in 1962. Caption on reverse states; "The freshman drill team with a freshman platoon in the background. E-11"
Four Army ROTC officers in posed photograph outside door of the Pershing Rifles Headquarters. Same officers as described in P002:746; officer name tag "Looney", "West" and "Hirte". with one unidentified. Second copy of photograph.
ROTC Pershing Rifles freshman platoon marching on campus, 61-62 year. This photo is combined with the Sand Point Competition sub series, probably by the same photographer. Notes on reverse: "Freshmen, two squads at E-11"
The Leland F. Skillin Collection consists of materials generated and assembled by Skillin reflecting his work as an engineer with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and Willamette Iron and Steelworks. The Collection includes articles, correspondence, employment records, a notebook, photographs, publications, and technical drawings. Most of the materials document Skillin's work on Willamette Basin Project dams and other Oregon dams, including facilities at Fern Ridge, Dalles, Foster Reservoir, Bonneville, and McNary. The materials illustrate Skillin's calculations for a 15-ton Gantry Crane needed for dam construction, collection of wood truss/connector structure information, and a study for temporary pump facilities at the Willamette National Lumber Company pending construction of Foster Dam. A notebook includes flood data for Rainier, Oregon, that was compiled by Skillin.
Skillin's employment records include travel reports, studies, and memoranda in which Skillin describes his project work, inspection tours, and attendance at conferences. The photographic prints depict Skillin's co-workers and the construction of various dams. The photographs also include images of Wallowa Lake, the Snake River Canyon, and an unidentified bridge.
The Difference, Power, and Discrimination (DPD) Program Records document the establishment and functioning of the DPD Program at Oregon State University as well as the topics of diversity, discrimination, racism, minority students and faculty, and women in higher education. The records pertain to curriculum development and pedagogy at Oregon State University specific to diversity and multicultural education as well as undergraduate education generally in all academic disciplines.
The records include materials documenting program administration, course proposals, committees, and the annual faculty seminar. Reports that are specific to the DPD Program and pertain to broader issues of diversity and equity at Oregon State are included. Reference materials that were assembled by the DPD Program as resources and reference materials for administration, teaching, and course development are part of the collection. These materials document specific incidents, racism, diversity and discrimination, recruitment and retention of minority faculty and students, and the role of women and minorities in science.
A 1998 review and evaluation of the DPD Program is comprehensively documented in the collection – especially a series of oral history interviews conducted by students in an anthropology class of other Oregon State students regarding DPD courses.
The collection also includes promotional publications, the Program's newsletter ReVisions, and several audio and video recordings. Video recordings of lectures by Nikki Giovanni and Gloria Anzaldua are available online.
Born-digital records are available to researchers in the Special Collections and Archives Research Center Reading Room.
Series 1 consists of correspondence received and sent by the DPD Program director and affiliated faculty, including Lani Roberts, Susan Shaw, Joan Gross, and Barbara Paige. Much of the correspondence is printed e-mail messages. The correspondence pertains to program administration, including budgets; workshops and publications; and DPD courses. This series includes born digital materials (4 files; 23 kbytes) that are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Correspondence from DPD Director Barbara Paige regarding textbooks, course proposals, and other administrative matters. This folder includes 4 files (all Word documents) totaling 23 kbytes.
Series 2 consists of course proposals and associated documentation submitted to the Baccalaureate Core Committee. The proposals address how courses meet the criteria established by the Faculty Senate for DPD courses within the Baccalaureate Core curriculum. Lists of DPD courses, syllabi, and review materials are included in this series. This series includes born digital materials (4 files; 33 kbytes) that are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Correspondence pertaining to the approval of DPD courses and a proposal for HST 368X. These born digital materials (4 files; 33 kbytes) are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 3 consists of records of the faculty seminar offered annually in the summer as an intensive 3-week seminar. The purpose of the seminar is to help faculty transform their curricula in light of issues of difference, power, and discrimination. This series includes outlines for the seminar, readings, applications from faculty to participate in the seminar, and evaluations. Materials documenting a seminar for Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) in September 2001 are also included. The series includes born digital materials (61 files; 1.8 Mbytes) that are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Includes Linn-Benton Seminar
Correspondence, publicity, evaluation, and resources documenting seminars and training offered to faculty for developing DPD courses. These born-digital records (56 files; 1.5 Mbytes) consist primarily of Word documents and also include Microsoft Publisher files, and Excel spreadsheets. The records are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Materials documenting a seminar of graduate teaching assistants offered in September. These born-digital records (5 files; 335 kbytes) are primarily Word documents and one Publisher file. The materials are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 4 consists of reports prepared or received by the DPD Program and includes DPD annual reports for 1993-1994, 1996-1997, and 1998. The 1999 report of the assessment of the DPD program that was conducted in 1998 is also part of this series. The assessment report includes copies of initiating and founding documents for the Program as appendices. Reports pertaining to recruitment, retention, equity, and parity for women and minority faculty are also part of this series. Born digital materials (3 files; 26 kbytes) are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Annual reports of the DPD Program for 1993-1994 and 1998 and correspondence pertaining to the 1998 report. These born-digital materials (3 files; 26 kbytes) consist of 2 Word Perfect files and one Word document. The materials are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 5 consists of materials assembled by the DPD Program as resources and reference materials for administration, teaching, and course development. The materials include reports, published articles, planning documents for other OSU units, newspaper clippings, and related documentation and correspondence. The reference materials address a myriad of topics including diversity and discrimination, minority faculty and students, racism, women, and the role of women and minorities in science. The series includes born-digital materials (7 files; 7.7 Mbytes) that are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
HEW: Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
HEW: Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
General references.
African American student recruitment.
Agenda and presentation for the Oregon State Service-Learning Faculty Seminar on May 11, 2007, "Developing a Scholarship of Engagement and Social Justice", presented by Jan Shoemaker, Director of the Louisiana State University Center for Community Engagement, Learning, and Leadership. These born digital materials (7 files; 7.7 Mbytes) consist of one Word document and 6 Powerpoint files. The materials are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 6 consists of the records of the Difference, Power, and Discrimination Program Advisory Board; the Faculty Senate Difference, Power, and Discrimination Task Force; and other Oregon State University committees and councils pertaining to diversity. Records of a committee to develop courses affirming diversity, that precedes the formal establishment of the DPD Program, are also part of this series. The materials in this series include minutes, agendas, meeting notes, and related documentation and correspondence.
Series 7 consists of sound recordings and transcripts of interviews conducted as a review and assessment of the DPD Program in 1998.This series consists of 3 sub-series: 1. Sound Recordings; 2. Releases, Transcripts, and Notes; and 3. Transcripts and Notes for Interviews without Releases. The materials within each sub-series are arranged by the interviewer.
The interviews were conducted by students in Joan Gross' Oral Traditions course (ANTH 498/598) during fall term of 1998; the interviewees were other Oregon State University students who had completed a DPD course. The semi-structured interviews gathered information about students' perception of the goals of the DPD Program, their knowledge of diversity and discrimination issues before and after taking a DPD course, and their assessment of the course and the program overall.
The sound recordings are cassette tapes and are available for listening in the Special Collections and Archives Research Center Reading Room.
Transcripts and notes are available for many of the interviews. Transcripts and notes for interviews without releases are restricted. There are several sound recordings that include interviews with individuals for whom there are no releases; these are indicated in the list below.
The data and conclusions reached from these interviews are summarized in the 1999 assessment report in Series 4.
Includes Follow-up
Interviewed with an individual for whom there is no release.
Includes interviews with individuals for whom there are no releases.
Includes interview with individual for whom there is no release.
Includes interview with an individual for whom there is no release.
Includes interview with individual for whom there is no release.
Interviewed with an individual for whom there is no release.
Also known as Anthony
Series 9 documents the administration of the program and includes enrollment data, budgets, position descriptions for the program director and staff, proposals, lists of faculty who have completed the DPD faculty seminar or teach DPD courses, and surveys and evaluations of the program. Materials documenting a 2004 celebration of the DPD Program at Oregon State are part of this series. Also of note is a 2003 presentation to the Provost's Council. This series includes born-digital materials (174 files; 3.8 Mbytes) that are available to researchers in the Reading Room.
Faculty who have completed the DPD Seminar and/or teach DPD courses.
Difference, Power, and Discrimination
Materials documenting the administration of the DPD Programs including planning for special events, budgets, meeting minutes, assessments and evaluations, and correspondence. Of special note is a 2003 presentation to the Provost's Council. These born digital materials 120 files; 2.5 Mbytes) are primarily Word documents; other formats include Word Perfect, Excel, and Powerpoint files. Several images are also part of this digital folder.
Materials documenting DPD courses. These born digital materials (39 files; 763 kbytes) are all Word documents. The materials are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Essays submitted by DPD faculty. These digital materials (4 files; 29 kbytes) are all Word documents. The materials are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Instructions prepared by DPD staff to document administrative and office operations. These born-digital materials (11 files; 581 kbytes) consist of Word documents and one Microsoft Publisher file. The records are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 10 consists of publications documenting the administration and activities of the DPD Program. It includes ReVisions, the quarterly newsletter produced by the Program, flyers, brochures, and posters. The newsletter lists DPD courses that have been approved by the Baccalaureate Core Committee, announcements of events, short articles by faculty teaching DPD courses, and provides information about the staff and administration of the Program.
This series also includes flyers, brochures, and posters -- including a poster promoting the lecture presented by Nikki Giovanni as the OSU DPD Distinguished Lecturer and Keynote Speaker for the Conference on Gender and Culture held in April 2002.
Born-digital materials (24 files; 2.8 Mbytes) in this series include the Fall 2000 ReVisions newsletter; manuscript files of the book about the DPD Program written by Jun Xing; and Writing for Change by Janet Lockhart and Susan M. Shaw. These materials are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Manuscript of the book, Teaching for Change: The Difference, Power, and Discrimination Model, by Jun Xing published in 2007 by Lexington Books. These born digital materials (22 files; 1.1 Mbytes) consist solely of Word documents. These records are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Fall 2000 issue of the DPD newsletter. This digital folder consists of one Microsoft Publisher file (721 kbytes) and is available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Writing for Change: Raising Awareness of Difference, Power, and Discrimination, 2nd Edition, by Janet Lockhart and Susan M. Shaw. This digital folder includes one PDF file (474 kbytes) that is available for researchers in the Reading Room.
Series 10 consists of recordings of Difference, Power, and Discrimination Program Distinguished Lectures at Oregon State University by Nikki Giovanni (2002) and Gloria Anzaldua (2003); a radio program about Audre Lorde, and two ABC News 20/20 programs. The radio and ABC News programs may have been used in training and workshops offered by the DPD Program. The lectures by Giovanni and Anzaldua are available online.
This radio profile first aired on WGBH radio in Boston in February 1987. This audiocassette was prepared by Profile Productions. Jennifer Abod was producer and narrator.
2 VHS tapes
Recorded at LaSells Stewart Center on April 18, 2002. The sound quality of the original recording is poor. This videotape has been digitized and is available online.
Recorded on April 24, 2003. Leslie Burns introduced the speaker and Jubilate, a women's choir in Corvallis, performed before the lecture -- Geography of Selves: Identity and the New Tribalism. This videotape has been digitized and is available online.
2 DVDs
Broadcast on January 26, 2007.
Broadcast on September 10, 2008.
Series 11 consists of born-digital materials captured on April 18, 2008 as a back-up of http://oregonstate.edu/dept/dpd. The records include electronic versions of the ReVisions newsletter, administrative program files, materials pertaining to the faculty seminar, and associated documentation and correspondence. The bulk of the materials are for 2002-2008. The original arrangement of these materials is retained. File formats include *.html, Word documents, Microsoft Publisher files, PDFs, and images. These materials (217 files; 13.6 Mbytes) are available for researchers in the Reading Room.
The Gerald W. Williams Glass Negatives Collection consists of eight glass negatives of the Oregon coast assembled and acquired by Williams due to his avocational interest in the history of the Pacific Northwest region. It is likely that all of the images were made by the same photographer; however, the identity of that photographer is unknown. The glass negatives are 5x7 inches and in good condition.
Each of the images was assigned a 3-digit identifying number and a descriptive title, presumably by the photographer. It’s possible that the negatives were used for printing postcards or other commemorative or souvenir prints.
All of the images are of scenes on the central Oregon coast and depict the following features, as described by the photographer: View north from Bob Creek Butte (105); view from Ten Mile to south (114); view north from Yachats (122); south from Alsea Bay (130); Seal Rocks (164); Devil’s Causeway Seal Rocks (167); Foulweather Lighthouse (216); and cliffs on beach Salmon River Bay (608). The Foulweather Lighthouse is now known as the Yaquina Head Lighthouse.
The Oregon State University Extension Association/4-H (OSUEA/4-H) Records document the membership, programs, and activities of the professional organization for 4-H Extension Agents in Oregon. In addition to administrative records of the OSEA/4-H, the collection includes substantive materials pertaining to the National Association of Extension 4-H Agents (NAE4-HA) 1983 Conference in Portland, Oregon, that was hosted and sponsored by the Oregon affiliate. The collection includes 622 photographs (color slides and color prints). The bulk of the photographs are of the 1983 national conference; other images depict the participation of Oregon members at the Oregon and national conferences in other years. The photographs also include a slide-tape program prepared to promote the 1983 conference. A name index of conference attendees shown in the prints is available with the collection.
Series I documents the financial status of the Association, including annual reports of income and expenses and account balances.
Series II includes lists of committee members as well as committee reports and proposals.
Series III consists of a letter from the OSUEA/4-H President, Pamela Olsen, to OSU Extension Director, O.E. Simpson, regarding a professional exchange program.
Series IV provides information on the Professional Improvement Conference held in Bend in 1991.
Series V includes summaries of the history of the OSUEA/4-H organization and recognition of Oregon 4-H Agents by the national organization prior to the establishment of the Oregon affiliate.
Series VI includes the constitution, bylaws, and rules of operation for the organization.
Series VII includes minutes and agendas for the Executive Committee, Board, and Annual Business Meeting of the organization. These includes reports from committees and officers as well as summaries of programs and activities.
Series VIII consists of the organization's newsletter, News 'n Notes, which was issued several times per year.
Series IX includes lists of members of the OSUEA/4-H as well as Oregon members of the NAE4-HA. Several of the lists indicate the county in which the 4-H Agent was working at the time. Lists of OSUEA/4-H officers are also included.
Series X consists of an OSUEA/4-H handbook (1991) with information about the organization for the membership and a handbook for state associations prepared by the National Association of Extension 4-H Agents (NAE4-HA) in 1986.
Series XI documents a survey of the membership conducted in 1986 to identify potential leaders and future program needs.
Series XII consists of two issues of the NAE4-HA newsletter, including the 40th anniversary issue (November 1986), and campaign materials (including buttons) for Oregon members seeking national office.
Series XIII documents planning and preparation for and hosting of the 1983 national conference by OSUEA/4-H in Portland and includes programs, a final report, information about tours and donors, bid materials, guidelines, committee records, correspondence, planning calendars, budgets and financial documents, thank you notes and letters, and ephemera (suspenders and buttons).
Series XIV consists of color slides (304) and color prints (318) primarily documenting Association conferences, including attendees, speakers, poster presentations, award ceremonies, and special events. The bulk of the color prints are from the 1983 national conference held in Portland, Oregon. The series also include promotional slides for the 1983 conference.
Primarily views of Oregon and Portland scenes and activities. Also includes some images of conference and 4-H activities.
These images document attendees, speakers, exhibits, award presentations, and special events at the Association's conferences. The bulk of the images are for the 1983 national conference that was held in Portland, Oregon. A name index is included with the photographs. The following individuals are depicted: John Baggott, Dick Best, Marjorie Brock, Bill Broderick, Suzi Busler, Steve Campbell, Caroline Cannon, Cheri Jo Carter, Barbara Christy, Helen Conner, Pat Coolican, Paula Dance, Patricia Dawson, Jim Douglas, Linda Ericksen, Sally Francis, Dale Friedeman, Lois Goering, Norm Goetze, Mary Ann Greeland, Roy Hamilton, Wendy Hamilton, Doug Hart, Beverly Hobbs, Maureen Hosty, Lyla Houglum, Elaine Husted, Duane Johnson, Alberta Johnston, Joy Jones, Harold Kerr, Ken Killingsworth, Carol Knothe, Ardis Koester, Karen Lang, Lillian Larwood, Miriam Lowrie, Bill Maddy, Ann Manlove, Mollie Marsh, Dan McGrath, Mitchell Gregg, Betty Morrison, Ira Mumford, Pamela Olsen, Jeff Olsen, Shelly Pagel, Jan Pahl, Terry Palmer, Clay Penhollow, Christy Price, Michelle Robinson, Dora Rumsey, Jim Rutledge, Bob Salzer, Barb Sawer, Ann Schauber, Sally Shumway, Tammy Skubinna, Ed Slocum, Bill Smiley, Janice (Broome) Smiley, Ernie Smith, Alan Snider, Lyle Speichert, Garry Stephenson, Billie Stevens, Mary Stewart, Marcelle Straatman, Mary Ann Sward, Frances Torbeck, Brain Tuck, Betty Wallace, Chris Warburton, Sandy Watts, and Shana Withee.
These photographs depict speakers, poster presentations, meetings, and activities at OSUEA/4-H and national conferences, including the NAE 4-HA conference in Mobile, Alabama, in 1989.
Series XV consists of an audiocassette tape for a slide-tape program promoting the national NAE4-HA conference held in Portland in 1983.
The Russell and Katherine Tegnell Scrapbook is neatly arranged and consists primarily of newspaper clippings documenting the couple’s wedding, scholastic success, and Russell Tegnell’s various student positions at Oregon State College. It also includes certificates, a blank ballot for the 1933 OSC Junior Class Officers election, and nine 8x10 black-and-white photographs of Memorial Union events. These photographs include shots of a banquet, as well as decorations for the 1934 All College Formal dance. Several group shots of Memorial Union staff are included as well, with Russell Tegnell pictured in each. Likewise included are three images of Russell’s trip to Oakland, California in 1937, to attend the Real Silk Western Convention.
The news clippings pertain mostly to Russell Tegnell’s campaign to become president of the Memorial Union, as well as articles about events that he organized as Chairman of the Socials Committee. Of particular interest are articles and pamphlets related to the 1933 junior class play, “The Tavern,” which Tegnell presided over as business manager; various dance announcements; and two articles related to his budding military career. Tegnell, who enlisted in the Army after graduating from OSC, taught civilians how to handle live fire bombs, and also practiced gas warfare.
Several pages contain articles regarding Katherine Tegnell’s impressive academic achievements. She was a member of three honor societies - the Sophomore Spurs, Alpha Lambda Delta, and Phi Kappa Phi - and received numerous awards. Included in the scrapbook is a pamphlet from the ninth annual Women’s Day Celebration, in which Tegnell received the Phi Chi Theta award, given to the woman with the highest scholastic standing in the School of Commerce. Katherine also successfully ran for the position of Secretary of the Sophomore Spurs during her junior year at OSC, an achievement that is documented in the volume.
The Annual Cruise was published each academic year from 1920 through 1975 by the Forestry Club as a yearbook for Oregon State forestry students and alumni. The College of Forestry published three issues of the Annual Cruise in 1996, 1999, and 2000. The publication includes articles on forestry topics, information about and photographs of forestry students and faculty, reports of Forestry Club activities, alumni news, and updates on current research activities.
This collection includes all the yearbooks, beginning with the 1921 volume. All of the yearbooks in this collection and the 1920 Forest Club Annual are available online.
Content Description
The centenary of the Benton County Courthouse building was celebrated in July 1988. In planning for this commemoration, the Benton County Commissioners' office approached the Horner Museum with the proposal that an oral history of the building be captured. This project was carried out over a period of three years with Horner Museum oral historian Jennifer Lee serving as interviewer and project manager. County officials selected six individuals to be interviewed for the project - Judge Richard Mengler, Gladys (Mack) Hunt, Elroy and Edmund Gravelle, Dorothy Moore and Magdalen (Mann) Schultze - and Lee identified a seventh, Dorothy Moore's sister Louise (Moore) Forland.
The resulting collection consists of two sets of audiocassettes of each interview, annotated draft transcripts, correspondence, photographic slides of interviewees, signed permissions forms, and a two-volume spiral-bound monograph titled An Oral History of the Benton County Courthouse, which contains finalized transcripts of each interview.
Volume 1 of the monograph is devoted to an in-depth life history of Judge Mengler and includes a table of contents, project overview and introduction to Mengler's biography. The text of Mengler's transcript is divided into chapters titled: "Early Life in Rural Nebraska"; "Education and Work"; "Moving West and Teaching in Corvallis, Oregon"; "Military Career"; "Law School, Marriage and City Attorney"; "District Court Judge"; "Courthouse Preservation Efforts"; "Teaching at Oregon State University and Serving as Circuit Court Judge"; "Supreme Court Appointment"; "Circuit Court Judge and Looking Back"; and "Retirement."
Volume 2 of the monograph includes capsule biographies of Hunt, Schultze, Moore, Forland and the Gravelle brothers, as well as the full texts of their interviews.
Horner Museum accession numbers are included with each set of audiocassettes. All interviews were conducted by Jennifer Lee. All recordings except for Richard Mengler's 1987 Chamber of Commerce presentation were duplicated by the project team and have been arranged into this series.
Presentation by Mengler on the history of the Benton County Courthouse delivered at a meeting of the Corvallis Chamber of Commerce. No transcript has been created for this recording. Horner accession number 988-1-9a.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-1a-b, including two duplicate cassettes. Hunt discusses her father, Herschel Mack, who served as Benton County Clerk from 1926-1932. Hunt also discusses her recollections of working in the courthouse, the Depression years, and her family's involvement with local public schools.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-2a-b, including two duplicate cassettes. The Gravelle brothers discuss their grandfather Odina Gravel, a carpenter who built the courthouse tower. They also discuss their family history, including information on their French-Canadian ancestry.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-3a-b, including two duplicate cassettes. Moore discusses her father A.J. Moore, Benton County Clerk from 1932-1948. She also notes that the Moore family home was located across the street from the courthouse. She recalls teaching children to dance, performing musical programs and playing piano in the local silent movie theaters.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-4a-b, including two duplicate cassettes. Forland discusses her father A.J. Moore as well as recollections of life as a student at Oregon Agricultural College and working in downtown Corvallis during the Depression.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-9b-c, including two duplicate cassettes.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-4a-b, including two duplicate cassettes. Schultze discusses her father, Thomas Mann, the builder of the courthouse. She also recounts her student years at Oregon Agricultural College during the Depression and searching for jobs following her graduation.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-9d-e, including two duplicate cassettes.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-9f-g, including two duplicate cassettes.
Horner accession numbers 988-1-9h-i, including two duplicate cassettes.
Folder also contains interview notes, correspondence, background materials and two photos of University Falls on Elliot Creek, Tillamook County, Oregon.
Folder also contains interview notes.
Folder also contains interview notes and background materials.
Folder also contains interview notes.
Volume contains an introduction to the Benton County Courthouse oral history project and in-depth life history of Judge Richard Mengler (1911-2001).
Volume contains the text of oral history interviews conducted with Gladys (Mack) Hunt, Magdalen (Mann) Schultze, Dorothy Moore, Louise (Moore) Forland, Edmund Gravelle and Elroy Gravelle.
Folder contains eight 35-mm slides depicting Louise (Moore) Forland, Edmund and Elroy Gravelle, Richard Mengler and Magdalen (Mann) Schultze.
The Alumni Association Records document the alumni of Oregon State University and the Association's administration and activities, and publications. The collection includes the records of individual graduating classes documenting activities during their student years as well as reunions and other special events after graduation. Lists of alumni and alumni directories are part of the collection. Subject files pertaining to notable alumni; faculty, staff, and friends of OSU; special events; and other university-related topics comprise a large component of the collection. The records of special events such as homecoming, class reunions, and the centennial of Oregon State University as well as fundraising for special projects such as a new football stadium and the carillon for the Memorial Union are included in the records. The collection includes extensive materials documenting the Association's publications - the alumni magazine, the Orange and Black, alumni directories, and sets of sound recordings of Oregon State songs. The collection also includes sound recordings by Bob Eberhard of Oregon State basketball games (in about 1957); a speech by Fred Shideler about the value of OSU to the Corvallis community; and an interview with Dan Poling about Corvallis and Oregon State College during World War II.
Subgroup 1, Class Files, document activities by class year before graduation and reunion events after graduation. They provide biographical information about alumni as well as document student activities, reunions, and special events.
The Class Records include constitutions and bylaws, meeting minutes, class wills and prophesies, financial records, lists of members, and scrapbooks for individual classes from the Class of 1902 through the Class of 1967. The Class of 1922 records include eight lapel pins donated by Claude F. Palmer. Of special note are the two scrapbooks for the Class of 1902.
Two volumes assembled by Gertrude Ewing McElfresh include ephemera and memorabilia from student years of the Class of 1902 as well as reunions; clippings; lists of class members; obituaries; correspondence and 38 photographs. The photographs are primarily of reunion groups and activities and class members after graduation.
Also includes minutes from 5th, 25th and 40th class reunions.
Pins have the following lettering, OAC, OAC Alumni, 22, and Orange Owl.
Mounted in Minutes Book.
Clippings of activities of class members and other campus events; includes 9 photographs (portraits) of class members and officers.
Predominantly clippings and one photograph.
Series II documents class reunions for the Class of 1888 through the Class of 1967. Most of the records pertain to reunions from the 1920s through 1970s. The records include correspondence, newspaper clippings, postcards, brochures, and photographs, primarily of reunion groups. These materials document the activities of Oregon State alumni after their graduation.
The book includes a program from the reunion, biographical information compiled from questionnaires completed by class members about their student activities and life after graduation, and a list of deceased class members.
The files include photographs, brochures, newspaper clippings, and ribbons pertaining to class reunions. Files for the Classes of 1912-1916, 1918, 1921-1932, 1934-1937, 1939, and 1946 are included. Files include 350 photographs (prints and negatives), most of which are reunion groups
The Alumni Register served as a guestbook for alumni who visited campus and includes the date of their visit; name; class year and college; present occupation; home and business addresses; marriage date; number of children; and, for women, maiden name and husband's initials. The entries are chronological by date of visit.
The Administrative Files document the organization and management of the Association as well as major programs and activities including the annual homecoming events; special projects such as the carillon in the Memorial Union; commemoration of the Oregon State University centennial in 1968-1969; recordings of special events and Oregon State songs; and fundraising through the OSU Fund.
Series I includes constitutions and bylaws for the Association dated 1914, 1934, 1941, and 1990.
The Annual and Biennial Reports include annual reports for 1938-1939 through 1941-1942 with related materials and a biennial report for 1970-1972.
Series III consists of records of the Association Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and other committees. The materials are from various years and do not represent a continuous or complete record.
Report of Long Range Planning Committee to the Board of Directors with draft proposal of long-range plan.
Series IV includes meeting minutes, draft constitution, correspondence, and related materials of the Federation, which was established in 1950 to coordinate, implement, and encourage activities of various members groups on behalf of Oregon State and its students. It includes representatives of the Mothers and Dads Clubs, the Alumni Association, the Associated Students (ASOSU), and Century Club.
The homecoming records consist of detailed annual reports of the homecoming weekend activities and programs that include clippings and ephemera. Scrapbooks documenting the 1961, 1962, and 1964 homecoming weekends are also included in the series.
Includes centennial homecoming in 1968.
Two volumes include primarily clippings with some ephemera, correspondence, and forms; no photographs.
Two identical scrapbooks with the same clippings; no photographs.
Series VI consists of reports, correspondence, clippings, and ephemera documenting the Portland Information Center and its activities for current Oregon State student, prospective students, alumni, and friends. The Center participated in recruitment activities and provided information and activities to incoming students the summer before they enrolled at Oregon State.
Series VII includes correspondence, clippings, and related materials pertaining to the alma mater, fight song, and other school songs. The clippings primarily document the publication of song books by the Alumni Association in the 1920s.
Series VIII consists of materials documenting several special projects of the Alumni Association including fundraising for a new football stadium, proposals for a World War II memorial chapel, and materials pertaining to the carillon bell system in the Memorial Union, which was installed in 1959. This carillon was dismantled in the mid 1990s and replaced by a digital sound system.
Four carollonic bell music rolls for hourly chimes at the Memorial Union. The rolls inclue the OSU fight song, "Hail to Old OSC", the alma mater, and secular and religious Christmas holiday selections. One of the rolls is a "word roll" with printed words to the alma mater and fight song.
States that Schulmerich Carillons, Inc. installed a "3-octave, 86-bell Americana Carillon" in the Memorial Union on October 20, 1959.
The Centennial Celebration records include agendas, minutes, and memoranda of the university-wide Centennial Committee as well as materials pertaining to selection of the Alumni Centennial Award recipients.
The Alumni Leader's Manual was prepared for the officers and representatives of the Association and includes the constitution and by-laws; policies and procedures; and information about the organization of the Association and its activities, programs, and services.
Series XI includes the first annual report of the Oregon State University Fund, which was established by the Alumni Association in 1959 to receive annual tax-deductible contributions from alumni and friends of OSU. The Comparison Report provides information about the number of donors and dollars received in 1976-1977 and 1977-1978.
Series XII consists of several pieces of correspondence, primarily incoming, written by or about alumni. Some of the correspondence addresses positions of the Alumni Association on issues at Oregon State.
Regarding the controversy between Oregon Agricultural College and the University of Oregon.
The Fiscal Records include a few items documenting the income of the organization in the 1920s and 1930s and the Association budgets in the mid-1970s.
The sound recordings include 18 vinyl sound disks, 12 reel-to-reel tapes, and 1 cassette tape. Of special note are recordings of the 1949 OSC vs University of Oregon football game; an OSC vs University or Oregon basketball game in about 1957; a speech by Fred Shideler; an interview with Dean of Men Emeritus Dan Poling in 1991 about Oregon State College and Corvallis during World War II; and two sets of recordings of Oregon State songs produced by the Alumni Association in the early 1950s.
25th Reunion
Interview with Dan Poling about Corvallis and Oregon State College during World War II by George Edmonston.
Tapes (4) made by Bob Eberhard (Class of 1957) while student broadcaster on campus radio station.
vs. Oregon and Univ. of Washington
4 reel-to-reel tapes
Also includes recreation of play-by-play for OAC vs Michigan Aggies 1915 football game; 2 reel-to-reel tapes.
Speech by Fred Shideler to the Chamber of Commerce Forum; reel-to-reel tape.
Two copies of a 45 rpm sound disk of the football fight song. Lyrics are printed on the dust jacket.
Two sets of two 78 rpm sound disks produced by the Oregon State College Alumni Association, the Music Department and the KOAC radio station. It includes a recording of the Oregon State Creed with words by E.T. Reed and music by Joseph Brye, sung by the Oregon State College A Cappella Choir (directed by Robert Walls). The set also includes Hail to Old OSC sung by the Oregon State College Choir Men and the Alma Mater sung by the Oregon State College Choir. Listening copy available on CD and on online in Best of the Archives digital collection.
Four sets of three 78 rpm sound disks produced by the Oregon State College Alumni Association include recordings of the Oregon State College Band and Glee Club performing the OSC Medley, Indiana State Band (March), the Alma Mater, Roadways, Mighty Beavers, Storm King, Hail to Old OSC, Toast to the Team, and March of the Spanish Soldiery. A 33 1/3 rpm edition (1 disk) is also included. Listening copy available on CD and online in Best of the Archives digital collection.
Alumni Association publicity and promotional projects, clippings about activities, direct mail efforts, and other projects for the period June 1950 through June 1951. Includes clippings; ephemera; copies of mailings; and issues of the alumni magazine.
Typewritten list of alumni by class year for Classes of 1870 through 1925; indicates if individual is deceased. The list is undated but may have been prepared in the 1950s or early 1960s.
Schedule of classes for spring 2008.
Subgroup 3 consists of records that document the major publications of the Association, the alumni magazine and the alumni directory, as well as the Orange and Black and OSU Scope. Copies of the Orange and Black and the alumni directories are included with these records. Copies of the alumni magazine and OSU Scope are maintained as separate collections.
The Alumni Magazine series consists of materials documenting the preparation and distribution of the Association's alumni magazine, the OAC Alumnus, Oregon State Monthly, and Oregon Stater. The records include extensive subject files on prominent alumni, faculty and staff, and special events; letters to the editor; and editorial materials for individual issues. The letters to the editor include letters and photocopies of diaries and family histories sent by alumni who are descendants of Oregon Trial pioneers. Information from the letters was used in a December 1992 Oregon Stater
article commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Oregon Trail.
Includes indexes for the 1929-1933 and 1976-1979 issues of the alumni magazine.
Track athletes at University of Oregon and OSU.
Subject files compiled for research purposes by the staff of the Oregon Stater alumni magazine. The files pertain to OSU alumni, homecoming celebrations, commencement and graduation ceremonies, and reunions. The files include photographs, newspaper clippings, magazines (especially copies of the Stater), minutes, and correspondence.
For the September/October issue.
Materials generated and collection by the Oregon Stater staff in the course of writing and editing the alumni magazine. The files include transcripts of interviews, article drafts, correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, press releases, and publications. Most of the files are for a particular magazine issue; others are for specific topics.
Series II consists of correspondence, memos, notes, and mock-ups pertaining to this quarterly newsletter for alumni and friends of OSU that was published by the Department of Information.
Four copies of the Orange and Black, a pictorial history of Oregon State College published by the Alumni Association in commemoration of the 70th anniversary of OSC. Edited by Richard Charles (Dick) Gearhart, it includes a narrative history and photographs of the campus, student activities and traditions, athletics, and living organizations. According to the title-page inscription, it is "A record of the first seventy years in the life of Oregon State College -- the illustrated story of her growth to the 'major industry in the State', complete with the changing life and activity of her students and alumni." Promotional materials for the Orange and Black are available in the Memorabilia Collection. The E.T. Reed Papers include materials pertaining to a substantial revision of the publication that Reed worked on from 1938 until his death; it was never published. Additional information about the preparation, publication, and distribution is available in the microfilmed records (Series XVIII. General Files). The Orange and Black is available online.
Series IV consists of alumni directories published by the Association. During the 1940s and 1950s, alumni directories were published as part of the Oregon Stater alumni magazine. Other lists of alumni are available in Subgroup 1 (Series III. Alumni Register) and Subgroup 2 (Series XVI. List of Alumni).
Includes published volume and CD with electronic version of alumni membership. The published directory includes lists by name, school (or college), class year, and current location.
Subgroup 4 consists of records that were microfilmed in 1969. There are no series II, IX, X, or XVII in this subgroup. Some of the documents on microfilm are available in paper form in other subgroups. The records document the full range of Association activities including class reunions and special events, publications, and fundraising. Most of the microfilm does not include folder targets.
Series XVIII includes accounting and administrative records; materials pertaining to Association publications (the alumni magazine and Orange and Black; narrative reports; correspondence; and reports regarding controversies between Oregon State College and the University of Oregon.
Series XIX includes materials pertaining to the proposed memorial chapel and the carillon for the Memorial Union. Correspondence with other universities regarding campus chapels and religious programs is part of this series.
The Portland Brewing Company Records includes brewing records, photographs, promotional and training materials, and ephemera.
The bulk of the collection is in Series 1, Brewing Records. These are arranged chronologically and by type of record. There are a few exceptions for early Hart Brewing beers, but most of these records document production at the Portland facility. However, the name of the company and the title of the forms changed several times, and that is reflected on the folder titles.
Series 2 through 4 are organized by company. The Portland Brewing Company materials include photographs of facilities, events, and equipment; marketing, promotional, packaging items; news clippings; building plans; and training materials. The Hart Brewing Company materials include marketing and promotional items, as well as a scrapbook with photographs, correspondence, ephemera, and news clippings. The Pyramid Breweries, Inc. materials include marketing and promotional items, news clippings, and a training manual.
The brew house and cellar logs record data about ingredients, temperatures, waste, and other measurements of the brewing process and when the beer is in storage. A Bright Tank is a tank used to hold beer in preparation for packaging; the term “bright” refers to “bright beer,” which is beer that has been rendered clear by filtration, centrifugation, fining, and/or maturation. Pilot brewing systems are the secondary systems used by breweries; typically, they produce a fraction of the beer compared to the main system and are used for experimenting with new styles or ingredients. Of note is the Pyramid Breweries recipe archive, Pyramid beer lab reports, and the Craft Brand trademark portfolio (Dundee, Magic Hat, Portland Brewing, Pyramid) and includes beer information sheets and marketing materials.
Number 001-049
Number 050-114
Number 115-121, 001-049
Number 053-099
Number 100-149
Number 150-199
Number 200-249
Number 250-326
Number 001-149
Number 050-149
Number 150-249
Number 250-349
Number 350-449
Number 450-553
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 285-349
Number 350-449
Number 450-499
Number 500-596
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-358
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-399
Number 400-450
Number 001-199
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-399
Number 400-497
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-399
Number 400-449
Number 450-499
Number 500-580
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-399
Number 400-449
Number 450-531
Number 001-099
Number 100-199
Number 200-299
Number 300-399
Number 401-443
Number 229-349
Number 350-435
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-750
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-753
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-786
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-763
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-775
Number 001-199
Number 200-398
Number 399-599
Number 600-854
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-799
Number 800-1028
January through March.
April through June.
July through September.
October through December.
Number 001-251
Number 252-503
Number 504-750
Number 751-951
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-799
Number 800-951
Pilot brews
January through March.
April through June.
July through September.
October through December.
Number 001-202
Number 203-499
Number 500-782
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-782
Pilot brews
January through March.
April through June.
July through September.
October through December.
Number 001-202
Number 203-398
Number 400-676
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-599
Number 600-676
Pilot brews
January through March.
April through June.
July through September.
October through December.
Number 001-300
Number 301-588
Number 001-199
Number 200-399
Number 400-588
January through March.
April through June.
July through September.
October through December.
Number 001-250
Number 251-451
Number 001-199
Number 200-451
January through March.
April through June.
July through October.
October through February.
Number 001-150
Number 151-304
Number 001-149
Number 150-305
Number 001-010
Wheaten, Apricot, Hefeweizen, Pale Ale, Kalsch, Kolsch, Snow Cap, Porter, Stout, B. Brown, Rye Ale.
Brewing lab reports, correspondence, lab reports.
Brewing audit, correspondence, hop rub spreadsheet.
Dundee and Magic Hat.
Portland Brewing and Pyramid.
Pictures of equipment, packaging, parties, and equipment; reports for brew house; marketing and promotional items such as coasters, labels, posters, and packaging; building plans and drawings; and news clippings.
Pictures of equipment, packaging, parties, and equipment. Of note is the installation of a bright tank; beer filtration system equipment from Germany; Portland Brewing grand opening party; original installation of system from Sixenbräu in Nördlingen, Germany; and the installation of a 520-barrel tank (accessed through a cut out in the wall). 42 pictures total.
Portland Brewing Company tenant improvements building plans (Arthur James Engineer, 2 pages), early schema of product flow through the Portland facility, poster for MacTarnahan's beer showing Mac MacTarnahan in running attire with beer medals around his neck, mounted article about Portland Brewing Company.
Group picture in Portland Brewing pub, picture of building and people working in the brewery.
Various posters including Portland Brewing Unipiper Hazy IPA poster, signed and dated 2019, and Oregon Honey Beer, Portland Brewing Company metal sign,
Scrapbook with items that reflect the growth and changes in the company in the first years. Included are drafts of company description and purpose statements; photographs of events, company offices, employees, and equipment; coasters and product table tents; invitations (e.g. Northwest Regional Wine Tastings); fliers for tastings (e.g. Western Washington Beverage tasting at Rays Boathouse) or events (e.g. The Great Northwest Beer Festival); correspondence related to events or donations (e.g. Bellevue's Peter Puget Festival and The Xerces Society); advertisements; and menus. Also included are news clippings by authors such as Vince Cottone and Fred Eckhardt with highlighted sections for information about Hart, including the opening of Hart Brewing, beer releases, regional sales, articles about Beth Hartwell and Tom Baune; and information about their sale of the brewery in 1989. This scrapbook was disassembled for preservation and access.
Menus, coasters, labels, event invitations, correspondence.
30 photographs of events, brewing facilities, and brewers.
Plaque for Hart Brewery and Pub from Seattle Times and “Lads of Seattle, 2034” parody poster.
Marketing and promotional items including labels and posters, a training manual for new employees, and news clippings about the company and products.
The School of Pharmacy Photograph Collection consists of images assembled by the School of Pharmacy and by Ernst Stuhr. The photographs depict the Pharmacy Building, model drugstore, pharmacy classrooms and laboratories, and exhibits at drug shows held on the Oregon State campus. Many of the images include pharmacy students. Also of note are several images of the Eli Lilly drug manufacturing facilities in Indianapolis, Indiana, in the 1920s.
Several of the photographs were made by Howells Studio in Corvallis; images by Ball Studio (Corvallis) and Photo Art Commercial Studios (Portland) are also included.
The bulk of the collection is photograph prints; several nitrate negatives are also included.
Series I consists of photographs assembled by the School of Pharmacy depicting the Pharmacy Building, model drugstore, classrooms and laboratories, and exhibits at drug shows. Pharmacy students are shown in many of the photographs. Also of note are several images of the Eli Lilly drug manufacturing facility in Indianapolis.
One print includes (from left to right): Ed Greyerbiehl, Lillian Polson, William Donald Fowler, James Bidgood, Bob Berman, Jack Kadau, Wade Stuart, John McPherson, Peyton Hawes, Ronald Esson, and Alberta Wilson (back to camera).
Includes several views of the building under construction and one line drawing of the building.
Composite print of individual portraits of graduates and faculty. Also includes images of President W.J. Kerr. Photograph by Ball Studio.
Includes Frank Henry and Fred Meek. Photograph by Photo Art Commercial Studios in Portland, Oregon.
Includes one image of pharmacognosy classroom and museum.
Photograph by Howells Studio.
One image depicts Howard Pertulla, who graduated in 1940; another shows Ernst Stuhr with students.
Includes Johnson & Johnson wholesale exhibit.
Includes Johnson & Johnson wholesale exhibit.
Showing commercial and scientific departments.
Several photographs by Howells Studio. One image includes Ernst Stuhr. Several sample window displays for cosmetics are depicted.
One image is from Parke, Davis & Company in Detroit, Michigan. Most of the photographs are of the Eli Lilly factory in Indianapolis, Indiana. These images depict the bottling department, labeling and wrapping liquids, the elixer and extract departments, filling liquids in small quantities, sugar coating, iletin finishing, capsule filling, and vacuum stills.
With a temporary sign, Home Economics Pharmacy, over the entrance.
Laboratory for analysis of food products and the testing of ingredients in prescriptions and proprietaries.
Studying fish oils from salmon cannery to utilize by-products.
Series II consists of photographs assembled by Ernst Stuhr. The images depict a series of exhibits on pharmaceutical topics, including glandular extracts and tuberculosis, and the attendees at a plant science seminar at Oregon State College. Several of the photographs are by Howells Studio; one is by Ball Studio. All are photographic prints.
Depicted in the image are five men. Standing in the doorway, second from left, is Henry DeBoest.
Exhibits pictured include Cathartics, Glandular Extracts, and For Your Health's Sake.
Exhibits pictured include Milk Foods & Modifiers, Digestants, Heart Tonics & Stimulants, Skin Affection, Antiseptics & Disinfectants, and The Source of Insulin.
Exhibits pictured include Surgical Supplies and Gland Therapy.
Exhibits pictured include Evolution of Rubber, Crude Drug Specimens, For Your Health's Sake, Prescription Compounding, and Infusum Digitalis.
Exhibits pictured include Organic Chemicals, Commerical Pharmacy, Retail Selling, and others. E.T. Stuhr is depicted on the right.
Drugs and customer counter pictured.
Individuals identified in this image include F.A. Gilfillan, back row first on left; Dean A. Ziefle, back row fourth from left; and Ernst T. Stuhr front row first on left. Photograph by Ball Studio.
This collection consists of photographs of Bernard Malamud. The images include various views of Malamud, standing in front of a fireplace, crouching at a bookshelf, looking out of a window, and with a cat in his lap. The photographs may have been made in his home. All of the images are original camera negatives, primarily 4x5, with some 120 format.
The Frederick Earl Price Photograph Collection consists of photos taken during Dean Price's retirement dinner in the Memorial Union in 1965. The images depict Price, his family, and Oregon State faculty and administrators, including President James Jensen. All of the images are b/w prints. The photographer is not identified.
Series I consists of photographs of the retirement dinner for Dean Frederick E. Price.
The University Theatre Records document drama productions at Oregon State University beginning in the 1920s. The bulk of the collection consists of play files for individual plays and posters publicizing performances and annual theater seasons. About 40 of the posters are original painted artwork. The records also include programs, scripts, publications, and materials documenting the summer theater program in the early 1970s.
The Play Files document the promotion, rehearsals, and performances of stage productions by the University Theatre and include rehearsal schedules; information pertaining to scenery and costume rentals, ticket sales, and attendance; programs and publicity; invoices and budgets; newspaper clippings; correspondence; and seating charts. The files are arranged chronologically. Play files for 1928-1950 are only available on microfilm; files for later productions are available in original paper form.
Summer session.
Series II consists of lists of plays performed by the the University Theatre.
Series III includes scripts of several plays performed at Oregon State in the 1930s and in 2009 with annotations and performance notes.
Series IV documents the Summer Theater Program in 1972 and 1973 and includes budgets and funding requests, brochures, newspaper clippings, reports, correspondence, and records of funding provided by the Oregon Arts Commission.
Series V includes programs of theater performances at Oregon State, primarily during the 1920s-1930s and 1990s-2000s.
Series VI consists of the charter certificate for the Oregon State College chapter of the National Collegiate Players drama honorary society.
Series VII consists of more than 200 posters promoting individual University Theatre productions as well as theater seasons. Most of the posters are printed items smaller than 20x24 inches. The series also includes about 40 original painted posters (about 30 inches by 45 inches) for productions in the 1950s and 1960s. Several of these posters include 8x10 b/w portrait photographs of lead cast members. A list of posters included in the collection is available online.
Designed by Northern School Supply of Portland, Oregon; 1 sheet.
The Publications include the annual newsletter for theater arts at Oregon State and several issues of the Northwest Theater Review, a regional journal of works by or about Northwest theater scholars and practitioners, published by the Northwest Drama Conference.
Edited by George Caldwell, OSU Speech Communications professor. An article in the 2005 issue by Marion O. Rossi, Jr., and Charlotte J. Headrick examines Shakespeare plays staged at Oregon State University.
Newsletter of the theater arts at Oregon State University, published annually in the fall.
The George W. Moore Papers consist predominantly of field and laboratory notebooks documenting Moore's work as a research geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey. The bulk of the field notebooks are for projects in Alaska: Beaches (1959-1960), Aleutian Trench and vicinity (1961-1965), and Kodiak Island (1976-1977). These include observations following the 1964 Alaska earthquake. Notes about studies of deep sea sediments in the North Pacific are part of the collection. Field notebooks for Moore's research on evaporites during the 1950s in Texas, New Mexico, Mexico, Nevada, and Utah and for projects during the 1960-1980s in California, Oregon, Washingtion, and Hawaii, as well as field work in New Zealand, are included. Some of these projects address cave geochemistry. A few field notebooks document work in Oregon and Washington in the 1990s, after his retirement from the U.S. Geological Survey.
The laboratory notebooks are for uranium absorption experiments conducted in 1952 and sea water studies done in 1956.
The collection also includes a copy of his 1960 Ph.D. dissertation, Origin and Chemical Composition of Evaporite Deposits and the 1978 book, Speleology: The Study of Caves written by Moore and G. Nicholas Sullivan.
The Sharon E. Rosenkoetter Papers document Rosenkoetter's research in early childhood development, especially transition planning between settings for children with special needs and leadership development to promote quality services across early childhood agencies and disciplines. The materials consist primarily of completed surveys, course materials, summarized survey data, reference materials, reports, and documentation compiled for the Oregon State University Institutional Review Board (IRB). The IRB materials include correspondence, blank survey forms, status reports, project outlines, and blank consent forms. Four projects are represented in the collection: Early Childhood Leadership Directions; Rural Links: An Approach to Collaborative Teacher Recruitment, Preparation, and Placement; National Early Childhood Transition Center (NECTC); and Story Quest.
The course materials are for HDFS 410, a practicum class for student involved in the Rural Links project. Three photographs depict Rosenkoetter with the students participating in the Rural Links project. Spanish versions of the NECTC project surveys are part of the collection.
The Magic Lantern Slide Collection consists of several sets of magic lantern slides and one set of glass-mounted 2x2 slides that were likely used for home entertainment or educational purposes. The magic lantern slides are primarily mounted in wood frames; some have descriptive information on the long edge of the frame. Most of the lantern slides are approximately 4x8 inches; some are 13 inches long. Some of the slides may be hand-painted. The condition varies from good to poor.
The collection includes images of artwork; a series of 8 slides titled The Evils of the Drink (Cruikshank); and several movable, animated slides for children. One set of 12 slides are not mounted in wood frames; this set depicts a children's story with inscriptions in French. A handwritten translation into English accompanies the slides. A Set of Twelve Natural History Sliders depicts drawings of wildlife (animals and birds), with 4 images per slide. A set of 10 items from the American Civil War Series includes artists' depictions of General McClellan and Fort Sumter.
The glass-mounted 2x2 slides consist of 59 images, primarily b/w photographs and a few line drawings, titled Visit of Farmers to Middle Tennessee and Muscle Shoals, Alabama. These images depict farms, fields, and agricultural crops.
The born digital interviews described in this collection were mostly conducted at the Mount St. Helens Scientific Pulse, a periodic gathering of members of the scientific community working on the ecological response to the 1980 eruption. One interview, with Virginia Dale, was collected in Baltimore, Maryland at a meeting of the Ecological Society of America. All interviews were led by historian Samuel Schmieding and collected to audio-only, sometimes in multiple parts. The original *.wav files collected by Schmieding have been preserved. In addition, *.mp3 derivatives have also been created for each file, and multiple files collected for a given interview have been compiled together for user access. Each interview has also been professionally transcribed and made available online. The biographical sketches and abstracts used to contextualize each of these interviews in their online form were written by Frederick J. Swanson.
Topics covered in these interviews include: narrators' personal backgrounds, mentors and colleagues; experiences of the mountain prior to the 1980 eruption, memories of the eruption itself and the immediate aftermath; research activities in the blast zone on mammals, birds and aquatic species, vegetation, and geology; the human toll of the eruption and its cultural and economic impact; the creation and importance of the National Volcanic Monument; conflicting opinions on how best to manage the Mount St. Helens ecosystem; the many safety risks inherent to field study at Mount St. Helens; comparative research at other eruption sites; the importance of the Pulse gatherings; and thoughts on the future of the mountain and its surrounding area.
All interviews were conducted by Samuel Schmieding and collected to audio-only. In addition to the item-level links provided below, the collected contents of this series are also available online.
Interview conducted at the Swanson residence, Corvallis, Oregon.
Interview conducted at Mount St. Helens Science Pulse base camp.
Interview conducted at the Mount St. Helens Volcanic National Monument.
Interview conducted at the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument.
Interview conducted at the Mount St. Helens National Volcanic Monument.
Interview conducted at the Baltimore Convention Center, Baltimore, Maryland.
Interview conducted in Chelatchie Prairie, Washington.
The Honors Program Records document the administration and programs of the Honors Program. The records include committee records, lists of graduates, information about faculty participants, director's files, publications, and photographs. The bulk of the collection consists of honors theses completed by students from the 1960s through 1991. Of note are newsletters published by students in the late 1960s and early 1970s that include announcements of Honors Program activities but also include pieces addressing the Vietnam War and environmental topics.
Series I consists of administrative paperwork such as generic student application forms and program information letters. This series also includes some general statistical information and support data about the Honors Program, including a revised copy of the Honors Student Association Constitution dated January 1969.
Series II consists of photocopies of letters to the OSU President listing the school, dean, department, department head and individual faculty who volunteered their time and expertise to the University Honors Program during the previous academic year. There are also photocopies of the letters which were sent to the department heads recognizing the efforts of individual department faculty who had volunteered their time to the Honors Program.
Series III consists of annual reports, class schedules, memorandum, minutes, newsletters and other materials related to the work of the University Honors Program Committee. In addition to overseeing the general administration of the Honors Program, the Honors Committee was also responsible for approving program applicants and monitoring their progress while in the program. Included is a file from the Honors Program Task Force which met during the 1986-1987 academic year to develop recommendations for restructuring the program following the retirement of Program Director, Margaret Meehan, in June 1985.
Series IV consists of materials compiled by various directors to assist them in managing the Honors Program. The Director's Notebook appears to be a ready reference of sorts outlining the student programs, courses, colloquia and individual department guidelines for students participating in the program. Weber's files document his participation on the Honors Committee.
Series V consists of annual listings of students in the OSU Honors Program. The names are organized alphabetically and often include the school and department where each student is enrolled.
Series VI consists of photocopied lists of the colloquia offered through the Honors Program for a specific term. The name of the instructor, department or profession, and class location are also included.
The publications include brochures, newsletters, and schedules. The brochures describe the Honors Program and give instructions for completing a thesis. The newsletters were published by honors students. The schedules describe honor colloquia and seminars offered each quarter.
The Slide-Tape Program consists of a recorded narration on audiocassette and 58 color slides about the Honors Program. It includes images campus scenes, classrooms, and laboratories; students; and faculty.
Series VIII consist of materials mainly related to the "My Last Lecture" series which was organized by the Facets of Honor, a student organization of the University Honors Program. The premise of the lecture series was that if this was a presenter's last public speech, what ideas or principles would they feel were most important to share with the audience.
Series X consists of theses completed by honors program students. The bulk of the materials are available on microfilm. Oversize materials, photographs, sound recordings, and computer disks are available in original format. A detailed list of all theses, including author, title, date, and major department, is available for authorized users.
Color slides, color prints, and b/w prints that were included with original honors theses on a variety of topics.
Computer disks and audiocassette sound recordings that accompanied original honors theses.
The photographs consist of 3 b/w prints depicting Honors Program students in science. The images were published in the 1962 publication Honors Program - School of Science
(CM62:18).
The Oregon Hops and Brewing Archives Oral History Collection is a growing repository of interviews with industry professionals, journalists and community members.
The collection is entirely born digital. Interviews led by project staff are captured using either video and audio recorders (sometimes both), and the resulting raw .mts files (almost always multiple files per interview) and .wav files constitute the original materials described in this collection. These raw files are stored on the libraries preservation server, as are lower-resolution derivative .mpg files that represent the full length of represent the full length of certain interview videos. In addition, .mp3 copies of each interview file have been generated from the raw files and are stored on the Special Collections and Archives Research Center (SCARC) file server for local access. Online copies of each interview video are likewise available in two locations: as lightly described video files accessible through OSU's MediaSpace media distribution platform and on the OHBA Research Guide.
Most interviews have been indexed with time-stamps or are in the process of being transcribed. Unless otherwise stated, all interviews are available for streaming online.
Materials assembled in the process of developing interview topics and permissions forms signed by interview subjects are held in the SCARC central files.
Carole Ockert describes the “brewing adventure” she and her husband, renowned brewer Karl Ockert, have shared, from the European backpacking trip of their youth to the extensive success of BridgePort Brewing Company. Ockert also discusses the sense of community and camaraderie that surrounded the first few Portland brewers of the 1980s. As BridgePort and its neighbors experienced growth, so too did the community’s relationships, purpose, and goals. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 1, 2014 at the residence of Carole and Karl Ockert in Lake Oswego, Oregon.
A fifth-generation hop grower, Blake Crosby owns and operates Crosby Hop Farm in Woodburn, Oregon with his father, Kevin. Since 1900, the Crosby family has grown a variety of aromatic and bittering hops on their land. In this interview, Crosby traces the trajectory of his family’s farming and business practices. Crosby also discusses his personal connection to hop growing and his interest in the changing dynamics of the craft brew-driven industry in Oregon. Crosby believes the industry’s new focus on quality and stewardship has helped bridge the urban-rural divide between consumers and growers. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 7, 2014 on location at Crosby Hop Farm in Woodburn, Oregon.
John Foyston, former Oregonian beer columnist, shares his personal history in this interview, describing events that led him to write about Oregon’s emergent beer culture. Foyston recounts his time studying journalism at the University of Oregon, as well as the importance of influences like the Vietnam War and music upon his career path. After owning a motorcycle shop, Foyston was an Arts and Entertainment freelance journalist, tracking the immense growth and changes of the Portland craft beer industry. The interview was conducted by Peter Kopp, Tiah Edmunson-Morton, and Tim Hills on March 28, 2014 in Portland, Oregon.
Warren Aney is alum of Oregon State University who received his Master’s degree in the 1970s. He went on to work as a wildlife ecologist. Aney met Charles Coury when he moved to Oregon due to their mutual interest in wine. He joined Coury’s wine association as a non-grower member. There Aney helped run their winery tours. He also took Coury’s viticulture class at PCC in 1972-3. Aney was at the dedication of the Cartwright Brewery. When he and his family moved back to Portland in the early 1990s where he started working for a travel agency leading wine tours. Aney has written a paper accepted by the Ecological Society on Oregon’s wine climates in 1974. Warren Aney is also a wine enthusiast, and in his interview talks about his friendship with Charles Coury, brewer and proprietor of the short-lived Cartwright Brewing in Portland, Oregon. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Korey Jackson on April 4, 2014 at Aney's home in Portland, Oregon.
One of the first female brewers in the modern history of the Pacific Northwest, Teri Fahrendorf is internationally recognized for her success in brewing and her educational, networking efforts. In this interview, Fahrendorf describes her first forays into brewing, including an injury which pushed her northward from the Golden Gate and Triple Rock breweries of California to Steelhead Brewing in Eugene, Oregon. The interview discusses Fahrendorf’s later “road brew” trip in depth—an adventure which led to the creation of women-driven projects like the Pink Boots Society, Barley’s Angels and International Women’s Collaboration Brew Day. Throughout the narrative, Fahrendorf stresses the importance of education and art in the brewing industry, both past and present. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on April 19, 2014 at Occidental Brewing Company in Portland, Oregon. Portions of the interview were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
Dr. Shaun Townsend is the senior researcher leading Oregon State University’s Aroma Hop Breeding Program. The project, sponsored in conjunction with Indie Hops, focuses on developing experimental hop varieties which grow best in Oregon and contain aromatic properties conducive to craft brewing. In this interview, Townsend recalls the catalysts and challenges behind the program, as well as the scientific and physical processes involved in its maintenance. Townsend also discusses his role as an informational liaison to the general public in the absence of a hop-focused extension agent. Interview conducted at the OSU Experimental Hop Yard, Hwy 34, Corvallis, OR. Portions of the footage were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
Thomas Shellhammer is the Nor’Wester Professor of Fermentation Science at OSU, where he runs a lab dedicated to the chemical and sensory analysis of hops. With his guidance, undergraduate and graduate students alike receive hands-on experience in the brewing process. In this interview, Shellhammer discusses his own path to research, as well as the trajectory of OSU’s Fermentation Science program within the Department of Food Science & Technology. Shellhammer also discusses aspects of the program related to funding and local collaborations. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 7, 2014 at the brewing facilities in OSU’s Wiegand Hall in Corvallis, Oregon. Interview conducted at Wiegand Hall, OSU, Corvallis, OR by Tiah Edmunson-Morton. Portions of the footage were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
A fifth-generation hop grower, Blake Crosby owns and operates Crosby Hop Farm in Woodburn, Oregon with his father, Kevin. Since 1900, the Crosby family has grown a variety of aromatic and bittering hops. In this interview, Crosby briefly discusses the history of his family's farm before focusing on more recent changes wrought by the increasing demand of hops for craft brewing. Crosby also discusses potential market trajectories, as well as the importance of preserving agricultural history for future generations. The video concludes with a tour of the farm's pelletizer, the only machine of its kind on an Oregon farm at the time of production. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Korey Jackson on May 16, 2014 on location at Crosby Farms in Woodburn, Oregon. Portions of the footage were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
Gayle Goschie is a third-generation hop grower and co-owner of Goschie Farms in Silverton, Oregon. She and her two brothers, Gordon and Glenn, grow hops, grapes, and other crops on land her family has cultivated for more than 100 years. In this interview, Goschie talks about the history of her family's farm and the changes that have occurred in hop growing practices due to technological advancements and economic trends. Goschie also addresses the value of a steady, loyal employee base, as well as the advent of the sustainable farming practices Goschie Farms is so recognized for. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 16, 2014 on location at Goschie Farms. Portions of the footage were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
Rob and Kurt Widmer are the founders of one of Oregon’s most recognizable breweries, Widmer Brothers Brewing. Based out of Portland, Oregon, the brothers’ brewery helped serve as a catalyst for the Pacific Northwest craft brew revolution. In this interview, the Widmers discuss their past and current relationships with regional brewers and the local community, crediting Portland’s pioneer heritage and adventurous drinking culture as keys to their success. The brothers also discuss pieces of their business model, which helped them weather challenges inherent to the industry. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 10, 2014 at the Widmer Brothers Gasthaus Pub in Portland, Oregon. The video concludes with the filming of a tasting session. Portions of the footage were used in the documentary history project “OHBA Stories.”
Fred Eckhardt was a prominent beer writer and critic whose work includes seminal brewing texts like A Treatise on Lager Beer and The Essentials of Beer Style. In this interview, he describes the events of his early life, recounting his time spent in a children’s home in Washington and his years as a U.S. Marine. Upon moving to Portland, Eckhardt became deeply involved with the burgeoning homebrewing and craft brewing movements—environments which he describes in depth in this interview. Eckhardt also offers information about early Pacific Northwest breweries like Olympia, Red Hook, Widmer Brothers, and McMenamins. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton, Tim Hills, and John Foyston on July 23, 2014 in Portland, Oregon.
Gail Nickerson is a former chemist with the Department of Agriculture at Oregon State University, whose work was immensely influential in the global hop industry. In this interview, Nickerson discusses the series of event which led her to work in the research lab of USDA chemist Sam Likens. Nickerson discusses her move from dishwasher to published researcher, recounting the technology and methods utilized and developed by her research team. Of particular interest are Nickerson’s descriptions of hop analysis and the engineering of varieties with researcher Al Haunold. The interview was conducted by Peter Kopp and Tiah Edmunson-Morton on August 6, 2014 in Corvallis, Oregon.
Don Weathers is a second-generation hop grower in the Willamette Valley, having owned and operated several farms throughout the state, many of which are now run by his children and grandchildren. In this interview, Weathers and his wife, Rosalie, recount the early years of their childhoods and marriage. The couple discusses post-World War II farming practices, as well as the changes to hop cultivation brought by increased mechanization. Weathers also briefly recounts the emergence of organizations like the Oregon Hop Commission and joint suppliers like Yakima Chief-Hopunion. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on September 24, 2014 in the couple’s home in Keizer, Oregon.
Dr. Shaun Townsend is a senior researcher in hop breeding and genetics at Oregon State. In this interview, he discusses growing up in central Illinois, his education and research experience in agronomy at Montana State and New Mexico state, and how he came to work at Oregon State University in the hop program. He describes his passion for research in crop science, and how his career has fulfilled that. In addition, he discusses the transformation of the OSU hop breeding program to fit the needs for variety in the craft brewing industry and how he collaborates with local growers and brewers to produce optimal varieties. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on November 3, 2014 in the OSU Valley Library in Corvallis, Oregon.
Matt Sage is a craft brewer, vintner and hop consultant whose work has contributed to the creation and expansion of many small businesses across the Pacific Northwest. In this interview, Sage discusses his wine and beer brewing ventures, detailing the operations and company culture of businesses like Associated Vintners, BridgePort Brewing Company, Rock Bottom Restaurant & Brewery, Cameron Winery, and finally, Indie Hops (the position he held at the time of the interview). Sage focuses heavily on the production and use of beer ingredients, as well as contemporary market trends of the hop industry. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at the Indie Hops offices in Portland, Oregon on November 11, 2014.
Dr. Haunold released the superstar hop varieties like Cascade, Willamette, Sterling, Liberty, Mt. Hood, and Santiam while he was with the USDA/ARS in Corvallis. During this interview he tells the story of the different hops he worked with, adding interesting details about people's personalities and technological advances. This interview was conducted by Shaun Townsend and Tiah Edmunson-Morton in Corvallis, Oregon on November 18, 2014.
Gary and Susan Wyatt are the founders and owners of Tumalo Hops, a farm often regarded as the first of its kind in Central Oregon. After the economic downturn of the early 2000s, the Wyatts chose to utilize five acres of their land to grow hops, planting, cultivating, and harvesting everything by hand. In this interview, the Wyatts recount the recent economic and cultural changes of Bend, as well as the importance of capitalizing on locality when selling their product to craft and homebrewers. The Wyatts also address the growing trend of agro-tourism and the desire to stay successful yet small via the pooling of intellectual and tangible resources. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Miles Wilhelm on February 18, 2015 at the couple’s farm in Tumalo, Oregon.
Fred Bowman is the former owner and co-founder of Portland Brewing Company, one of Oregon's first post-Prohibition micro breweries. In this interview, Bowman discusses the biological and mechanical skills and interests that led him to found a brewery in Portland with Jim Goodwin and Art Larrance in 1986. Bowman talks at length about his life before Portland Brewing Co., detailing an extensive trip to Europe, his enlistment in the Army Reserves, and a 16-year stint working for a Volkswagen distributor. Bowman also discusses the challenges surrounding Portland Brewing Company's first years of operation, as well as his eventual decision to branch off as an independent consultant. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at Bowman's home in Portland, Oregon.
Irene Firmat is the founder and CEO of Full Sail Brewing Company, located in Hood River, Oregon. In this interview, she recalls her childhood as a Cuban immigrant in New York and the changes that brought her to Oregon as a buyer for department store Meier & Frank. Firmat also recounts the creation of Full Sail Brewing (originally known as Hood River Brewing) and the process of crafting a company culture of mutual respect and collaboration. In addition, Firmat discusses former and projected market trends of the craft beer industry, emphasizing her desire to witness a return to the quality-driven production of Portland’s flagship breweries of the 1980s. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 4, 2015 at the Full Sail Brewery in Hood River, Oregon.
The daughter of OSU hops specialist G.R. Hoerner, Joy Hoerner Rich graduated from OSU in the 1940s with a degree in Home Economics. In this interview, Hoerner Rich describes the atmosphere of campus and the Corvallis area during World War II, emphasizing the influences of the draft and the proximity of Camp Adair. After graduation, Hoerner Rich and her husband moved to Roseburg, Oregon, where she spent several decades as a kindergarten teacher and early childhood education expert. Hoerner Rich also details the work habits and duties of her father during his time at OSU and Kasetsart University in Bangkok, Thailand. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 20, 2015 at Hoerner Rich’s residence in Roseburg, Oregon.
Larry Sidor is the founder and brewmaster of Crux Fermentation Project, a brewery and tasting room in Bend, Oregon. A graduate of Oregon State University, Sidor allowed practicality to push him toward the food sciences—a decision which ultimately led to a prolonged passion for making wine and beer. In this interview, Sidor discusses the company culture and economic trends of his former places of employment: Olympia Brewing, hop merchant SS Steiner, and Deschutes Brewing. He stresses the need for trust and relationships in both the macro- and microbrewery settings, emphasizing the importance of maintaining a “farm to table mentality.” The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Chris Peterson on November 6, 2015 in Corvallis, Oregon. This interview has also been described in the Oregon State University Sesquicentennial Oral History Collection (OH 026).
Jeff Edgerton has been the master brewer at BridgePort Brewing Company since 2010. In this interview, he recounts his path from Blitz-Weinhard lab technician to BridgePort quality assurance manager and brewmaster. After earning a degree in microbiology at Oregon State University, Edgerton brought the practices of quality and consistency he learned at Blitz-Weinhard to the increasingly popular BridgePort Brewing in 1998. Edgerton explains the brewing industry as a “lifestyle career,” one which encouraged him to pursue further involvement with the Master Brewers Association and collaborate with OSU’s Fermentation Science students. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on November 18, 2015 at BridgePort Brewing in Portland, Oregon. This interview has also been described in the Oregon State University Sesquicentennial Oral History Collection (OH 026).
Mick Flanagan, a mechanic at BridgePort Brewing Company, has worked for the brewery since 1989. The interview was conducted at the BridgePort Brewing Company in Portland on November 18, 2016 by Tiah Edmunson-Morton.
Born and raised in Portland, brewer John Harris has worked in Oregon's oldest craft breweries. He was a brewer at McMenamins' Hillsdale Brewery & Public House and Cornelius Pass Roadhouse (1986-1988), was the first employee and head brewer at Deschutes Brewery in Bend (1988-1992), and ran the Full Sail South Waterfront Brewery in Portland (1992-2012) before opening Ecliptic Brewing in North Portland in 2013. In this interview Harris talks about growing up in Portland, attending Portland State University as a theater major, and working in the evolving craft industry for 30 years. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on December 9, 2015 at Ecliptic Brewery, 825 N Cook St in Portland, Oregon. This interview is not avaialble online.
Oral history interview with John Annen, fourth generation hop grower in Mount Angel, Oregon. Annen talks about the farming history of his family, the hop growing community in Oregon and the Oregon Hop Commission, mechanization of harvesting and processing practices, labor, diversification of the hops varieties grown, and working with macro and craft brewers. The interview was conducted at the Annen Farm in Mount Angel on February 10, 2016 by Tiah Edmunson-Morton. Also present was Nancy Sites, administrator for the Oregon Hop Commission.
Dana Garves is a brewing chemist who owns and operates BrewLab, a company that provides chemical analyses for breweries, cideries, meaderies, and home brewers. In this interview, Garves talks about her early interest in studying Chemistry, her experiences attending the University of Oregon, her interest in STEM education for girls, her work at Ninkasi, and her decision to start her own company. Garves also talks at length about the Ninkasi Space Launch, a year long project that she was involved with as a chemist. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on February 19, 2016 at Garves' lab in Eugene.
Chris Crabb is the public relations director of the Oregon Brewers Festival and owner of public relations firm Crabbsoup. In this interview, she discusses her work as public relations manager of multiple beer-related accounts, emphasizing the advent of social media and the importance—and enjoyment—of forging local networks. Having been involved with the Oregon Brewers Festival for more than twenty years, Crabb offers insight regarding the organization and atmosphere of the popular event. Crabb also recounts the cultural climates of Portland and Eugene during her adolescent and collegiate years. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 2, 2016 at the City of Portland Archives and Records Management office.
Theodore “Ted” Cox is the founder and owner of the Old World Deli complex in Corvallis, Oregon, which houses the Oregon Trail Brewery and several galleries in addition to the restaurant. In this interview, Cox discusses the events which led him to open the deli, including two stints with the Peace Corps. Cox also covers his time as a student, teacher and volleyball coach at Oregon State University and Linn Benton Community College, where he studied and taught physical education. A regional history aficionado, Cox shares several stories and anecdotes about Corvallis and Prohibition-era brewing practices. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 7, 2016 at Cox’s home in Corvallis. This interview has also been described in the Oregon State University Sesquicentennial Oral History Collection (OH 026).
Lee Hedgmon is a Portland-based home and commercial brewer. She is active in the Oregon Brew Crew (serving as their first female president in 2015), Ladies of Lager Ales, and Pink Boots Society, working to increase the number of women in brewing. In addition to brewing, in this interview Hedgmon talks about growing up in Portland, her work as a youth activist, experiences as a student at PCC and PSU, activism in the queer community, involvement with JobCorp in Astoria, work in the hotel industry in Portland, and graduate work in the University of Minnesota Feminist Studies program. She shares stories on her early homebrewing adventures and experiences, as well as her transition to paid positions at Coalition Brewing, Portland U Brew, FA Steinbarts, Pints, and Groundbreaker. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 9, 2016 at The Valley Library in Corvallis.
Dr. Mellie Pullman is a professor at Portland State University, where she is the Director of the Business of Craft Brewing Program. In this interview, Pullman talks about growing up in Chicago, traveling through the country and taking classes at The Evergreen State College before settling in Park City, Utah, where she became the first female brewmaster in the US at Schirf Brewing (1986). Pullman talks about what it was like to be a woman in male dominated industries, working at Cornell University, moving to Portland, and how her research focus shifted from food to beer. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 17, 2016 at Pullman’s home in Portland.
Emily Engdahl is the Executive Director of The Pink Boots Society. In her interview, Engdahl talks about the importance of an educational and outreach organization such as Pink Boots for women working in the brewing industries, as well as about growing up in Portland, creating PDX Beer Geeks and Oregon Beer Country, and her work as an artist and graphic designer. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 17, 2016 at the McMenamins Mission Theater in Portland.
Natalie Baldwin, brewer at Burnside Brewing, talks about growing up in Vail, Colorado, moving to Portland, and learning about brewing. Baldwin is known for pushing the boundaries of classic styles, and she addresses how her mentors in brewing have encouraged her experimentation. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 17, 2016 at the McMenamins Mission Theater in Portland.
Sonia Marie Leikam owns Leikam Brewing with her husband, but also works full-time at the Oregon Jewish Community Foundation. In her interview, Leikam talks about growing up in the Bay Area, moving to Portland to attend Lewis & Clark College, the evolution of her Jewish faith, teaching in Portland area schools, starting the brewery (Community Supported Brewery, Kosher certified), balancing work and family, and her work as an educator and human rights advocate. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 17, 2016 at the McMenamins Mission Theater in Portland.
​Jennifer Kent is the brewer at the McMenamins Thompson Brewery & Public House. In her interview, Kent talks about her early childhood in Alaska and Colorado; memories of growing up in Newport, Oregon; her family and mother's art career; work in the food service industry; her career at McMenamins as a brewer; the art of brewing and brewing community in the region; and being a woman in a male dominated brewing industry. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on July 7, 2016 at the McMenamins Thompson Brewery & Public House in Salem, Oregon.
Blair Smith is the owner, orchardist, and cider-maker for Apple Outlaw. In his interview, Smith talks about growing up in Stockton, CA and his work as a software engineer in Livermore; moving to rural Oregon and learning about running an organic orchard; and the transition from non-alcoholic to hard cider. More generally, Blair talks about how his family has focused on community involvement and environmental responsibility. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on October 5, 2016 at Apple Outlaw in Applegate, Oregon. Also present was Maureen Battistella, who works to document the Southern Oregon wine industry.
Guy Seghetti worked as a USDA Hops and Essential Oils lab and agricultural technician at OSU from 1968-1977. In his interview, Seghetti talks about growing up in Corvallis, his time at University of Utah while pursuing a degree in Anthropology, and his experiences as a technician in Corvallis. Specifically, Seghetti provides personal observation about the breeding program, with anecdotes and details about this crucial time in hops history with the release of the Cascade and other hops in the 1970s. Seghetti left the program in 1977 to teach Social Science for Roseburg, Oregon, public schools; he retired in 2008. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on October 6, 2016 in Roseburg, Oregon.
Lisa Allen is a brewer at Heater Allen Brewing in McMinnville. In her interview, Allen discusses growing up in Tualatin; her junior year spent in Moraga, California; her experiences at OSU in the early 2000s, and her travels to New Zealand. After graduating, Allen worked in the wine industry, starting with harvest and then working in tasting rooms. In 2009, Allen left the wine industry to join her father at Heater Allen Brewing, which he'd opened in 2007 after a long career as an investment banker; Rick Allen joins the interview at the end to discuss the origins and operations of the brewery, especially their choice to focus on German lagers and pilsners. Allen also discusses her experiences as a woman in the brewing industry, as well as what it is like to brew in the middle of Oregon's wine country. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on October 20, 2016 in McMinnville, Oregon.
Sarah Pederson is the owner of Saravesa, a bar, bottle shop, and breweriana showroom in North Portland. In this interview she discusses growing up in a small town in Wisconsin, going to college in Minneapolis, living and working in Los Angeles, and moving to Portland. Pederson shares stories of her work doing Public Relations for a High Tech firm and working for her friend at the patisserie and bar Pix, as well as education at the American Brewer's Guild, early jobs at the breweries Hair of the Dog and the New Old Lompoc Bar, and opening of Saravesa in 2008. At the end of the interview, Pederson talks about being a woman working in a male dominated industry. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on October 20, 2016 in Portland, Oregon.
Kyle Almlie is a graduate teaching assistant in the chemistry department of Oregon State University, as well as a home brewer. In this interview, he compares living in Corvallis to growing up in Chico, California, his growing knowledge and passion for both teaching and chemistry, and the challenges of participating in beer and homebrew culture while also being gluten-free. Kyle also discusses the chemistry behind brewing gluten-free beers and different kinds of mead, the chemistry of alpha acids in hops, and how that all ties back into his experience as an analytical chemist. This past spring, Kyle won awards both for his work as a TA and for a poster about his work developing equipment for fluorescence spectroscopy in the Sean Burrows, and he also reflects on those experiences. The interview was conducted by Gillian Bergmann on October 27, 2016 in the Valley Library in Corvallis. Also present was Tiah Edmunson-Morton, director of the Oregon Hops and Brewing Archives.
Rick Allen is the owner and head brewer at Heater Allen. In his interview, Allen shares stories about his family's deep roots at OSU, dating to his grandmother and grandfather's time OAC in the 1910s and daughter's graduation in the 2000s. He also discusses his time as a student at OSU in the early 1970s, including the campus climate, student perspective on the administration, and campus traditions linked to his fraternity (Beta Theta Pi). After university, Allen took a position as an investment banker in Portland, with short moves to Washington and California for employment; he left that field in the early 2000s. An avid home brewer, Allen considered a second career as a vintner, but decided to open a brewery in 2007 in McMinnville, Oregon. In the latter part of his interview, Allen discusses the important influences on his brewing style, experiences operating a brewery in Oregon's wine country, and issues facing small breweries in 2016. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on November 16, 2016 in McMinnville, Oregon.
Don Norton is the owner of Norton Hop Farm, a small organic hop farm established in Goshen, Oregon in 2008. In his interview, Norton talks about growing up in the Eugene area, experiences installing and running his 1-acre farm, and work with an herbal supply company. Norton also addresses some of his concerns as a small grower, including outlets for selling his product and expansion. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Michelle McKay in Bend, Oregon at the Hop Growers of America Conference on January 18, 2017.
Brian Crosby is a fourth generation Crosby hop family member, and works as an accounts manager. In his interview, Crosby talks extensively about the family farm and relationships, including how he learned about farm operations and the impact of mechanization on the industry. He also discusses more current topics, such as the shift towards Salmon-Safe Certified farming practices and innovative processing techniques. Crosby served in the US Navy, retuning from service to attend Oregon State University 1984-1988, receiving his BS in Civil Engineering and playing in the the Oregon State Rugby Club while in school. He was a commercial construction manager before returning to the farm business. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Michelle McKay in Bend, Oregon at the Hop Growers of America Conference on January 18, 2017.
Cheryl Gillson works as a marketing and manager at Rogue Farms in Independence, Oregon. In her interview, Gillson talks about growing up in California, working as Jack Joyce's assistant at Rogue Ales & Spirits, traveling and living abroad, and returning to Rogue to work on their farm in Independence as a "beer farmer." She talks extensively about the crops they grow, and the impact learning about farming has had on her life. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton and Michelle McKay in Bend, Oregon at the Hop Growers of America Conference on January 19, 2017.
Dr. Thomas Shellhammer is the Nor’Wester Professor of Fermentation Science and is an internationally recognized expert in hops chemistry. In this interview he talks about growing up in San Jose, early memories of his father's work as a field biologist studying fire ecology and his mother's work as an arts educator, and his early interest in the sciences. He also discusses his food and fermentation sciences education at UC Davis, internships or work experiences during his path from BS to PhD, and early impressions of Oregon State's Food and Fermentation program. Shellhammer also discusses topics such as the demographics of the industries over time, as well as his observations of the industry's patterns of growth and contraction. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at Weigand Hall on OSU's campus on February 14, 2017.
Lee Larsen is one of the founders of 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. In this interview, he talks about growing up in Corvallis and experiences living in Barcelona, Spain during high school. Specifically, Larsen reflects on the cultural differences around the drinking and production of alcohol in Spain and the U.S., as well as his early exposure to the astringent Basque ciders he encountered. Larsen also talks about his time at OSU studying Finance (BS 2008) and his early interest in home brewing. Larsen ends the interview talking about establishing 2 Towns with Aaron Sarnoff-Wood in 2010, the addition of Dave Takush in 2011, and the company culture. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at 2 Towns Ciderhouse on February 20, 2017.
Dave Takush is the head cider maker at 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. In his interview, Takush talks about growing up in Corvallis, his undergraduate and graduate studies in Fermentation Science and Oenology at OSU (BS 2007, MS 2009), and his work as a winemaker in Eugene. Takush also shares information about New World (modern) apple and Traditional (heritage) apples, specifically as it relates to their commitment as a business to bring back the traditional cider style, concerns over cider apple supply, experiences finding and grafting new varieties of apple trees, opportunities to work with both local orchardists and the local community, and the importance of agricultural history. Takush also talks about the early company history, working with Lee Larsen and Aaron Sarnoff-Wood, and the company culture. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at 2 Towns Ciderhouse on February 20, 2017.
Dr. Nathan Kirk is a teaches in OSU's Department of Integrative Biology, specializing in Marine Ecology. In this interview, Dr. Kirk talks about growing up in New York state, his early research interests and education, his experiences in his graduate program at State University of New York at Buffalo and doctoral program at Auburn University (Alabama). He also talks about his experiences as a home brewer, specifically as it related to the culture in Alabama and his own brewing practices. This interview was conducted by Gillian Bergmann and Tiah Edmunson-Morton in Cordley Hall on OSU's campus on February 21, 2017.
Hilda Stevens owns Bazi Bierbrasserie, a Belgian-style beer taproom and soccer bar in SE Portland. In her interview, Stevens talks about immigrating from Guatemala when she was 8 years old, living and going to school in The Woodlands (a community north of Houston, Texas), attending St Mary's University in San Antonio, her early work with business and marketing companies, experiences traveling through the US and internationally, and her work establishing Bazi. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at Bazi Bierbrasserie in Portland Oregon on February 22, 2017.
Aaron Sarnoff-Wood is one of the co-founders of 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon. In this interview, Sarnoff-Wood talks about growing up in Corvallis, his early interest in art and graphic design, attending the University of Oregon, work in the graphic design industry, and the decision to open a cider-making company with Lee Larsen. Sarnoff-Wood also reflects on the evolution and growth of the cider industry, as well as how the company has changed with its increase in size. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at 2 Towns Ciderhouse in Corvallis, Oregon on February 24, 2017.
Jeff Clawson has worked for the Department of Food Science and Technology as the research brewery and food processing manager since 1993. In his interview, Clawson talks about growing up in Davis, California, where his father was a University of California Extension Agent and his mom worked as a department admin assistant. He also shares his early memories of Davis, thoughts on campus and city culture, and his decision to move to Oregon to attend Eastern Oregon College (now Eastern Oregon University) in LaGrande, where he studied Agribusiness. It was in college that Clawson took a class in brewing, which became a personal hobby and ultimately led to a career. He talks about transferring to OSU to finish his BS, adding a food science minor and working with Mina McDaniel on sensory analysis; about working for NORPAC Foods in Stayton after graduation; about returning to OSU for graduate school in 1991 to study Rangeland Resources and Water Quality; and finally about returning to the food sciences in 1993. Clawson talks about the gift from James Bernau that facilitated building the pilot research brewery and establishing the Nor'Wester endowed professorship, the evolution of the program, and the future of brewing education at OSU. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at the Valley Library in Corvallis, Oregon on February 27, 2017.
Jeff, Kathy and Gillian Tobin are the owners of Mazama Brewing Company, which was founded in Corvallis, Oregon in 2012. In this interview, Jeff Tobin discusses his childhood in Michigan, being interested in both science and music at school, and how those interests lead him to studying electronic engineering at Michigan Technical University. He also discusses how he and his wife Kathy were introduced to home brewing by peers at the university, and how they developed their skills in German styles. Jeff then recounts his career path from International Business Machines (IBM) in Vermont to Hewlett Packard (HP) in Colorado and Corvallis, Oregon, noting the birth of his children, Gillian and Riley, during that time. Kathy then joins the interview and she, along with Gillian and Jeff, discuss how they decided to open Mazama brewing, the importance of community involvement and the overlap between their relationships as family and business partners. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at the Mazama Brewing taproom in Corvallis, Oregon.
Nick Lorenz is one of the founders and owners of Nectar Creek Mead, which opened up in October of 2012. In this interview, Lorenz discusses growing up with his brother Phillip in Corvallis, their early involvement in farming and value-added agriculture, and his individual interests in soccer and pottery. He then discusses how he decided to go to the University of Vermont studying ecological agriculture, his journey towards giving up soccer and the summer jobs he held as a raft guide and orchard staff member. In addition to this, Lorenz elaborates on his brother’s college education in apiculture/fermentation science and work in commercial beekeeping, and how those experiences lead to the opening of the meadery after years of planning to run a business together. Lorenz then details the growth Nectar Creek has experienced since starting, and how he incorporates his value of personal connection into their involvement in the community and their employment model. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at the Nectar Creek Meadery in Corvallis, Oregon.
Mark McKay is a sixth generation hop grower in St. Paul, Oregon. In his interview, McKay talks about his family history, growing up on the farm, crops they have grown, why his dad got out of the hops business, and things he learned from his father and the community. He also talks about establishing a hop farm in Independence in the 1990s with his brother Dean, industry labor practices and regulations, the challenges of an evolving industry, agro-tourism, the impact of technology on farming, as well as his thoughts on the future of farming and his hopes for his children’s involvement in the industry. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at McKay's house in St. Paul, Oregon on March 8, 2017. Also present was McKay's daughter, Michelle.
Bill Coleman is part of a large multigenerational hop growing family, primarily based in St. Paul and Mt. Angel. In his interview Coleman talks about his family’s history with hops in the Willamette Valley, growing up in a farming family, jobs he did as a child and adult, and the strong work ethic and values that were part of his upbringing. He also talks about the rapid expansion of farm land his family experienced in the 1950s through 1970s, the locations of the farms throughout the counties of the Valley, business relationships with other farming families and the monks at Mt. Angel Abbey, labor history and changes over time, and technologies he developed to improve efficiencies. He addresses the roles of different family members in current company structure, how to hand down knowledge through generations, and how they value communication. He shares his thoughts on his own travels and the value he places on meeting new people and appreciating the place he is from. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at Bill Coleman's sister's house in Mt. Angel, Oregon on March 8, 2017. Also present was Coleman's sister Jane Wavra and great niece Michelle McKay.
Lisa Morrison is the majority owner at Belmont Station in Portland. In her interview, Morrison talks about growing up in Oklahoma, moving to Colorado for high school, and college experiences at Colorado State University. It was at CSU that her interest in imported and local microbrews was sparked. After graduating with a degree in Technical Journalism, Morrison was a television news reporter and anchor, a career she continued after moving to Portland in 1989. In addition to exploring the rapidly expanding beer culture in Portland, she began home brewing with her husband and soon joined the Oregon Brew Crew. Soon this personal interest or avocation turned into a career when she started to write about beer for local and national publications, and then later a radio show where she interviewed people from all aspects of the brewing community. Morrison talks about her process for identifying and chronicling beer culture, experiences as a woman in the journalism and brewing industries, beer education/appreciation classes she taught (including Sud Sisters, Barleys Angels), experiences mentoring and encouraging exploration of styles, and her impact on the industry, as well as her work establishing well-known festivals like PDX Beer Week, Craft Beer Month, and Fred Fest. The interview was conducted on March 15, 2017 by Tiah Edmunson-Morton at Belmont Station in Portland, Oregon.
Gary Nance is the brewer at the McMenamins on Monroe in Corvallis, Oregon. Nance started brewing professionally in 1995, working as the assistant brewer at Spencer's Restaurant and Brewhouse in Springfield, Oregon, where he helped develop Oregon's first certified organic ale in 1998. After Spencer's closed, he had short stints working at West Bros. and Steelhead before taking a job at the McMenamins Thompson Brewery and Public House in Salem in August 2002. Nance moved to the new Monroe Street facility when it opened in 2006. In his interview, Nance talks about growing up in Oklahoma, moving to the West Coast, living in Eugene, his growing interest in brewing, and his experiences at several different breweries in different cities. He also talks about McMenamins culture and balancing brewing experimentation with the expected standardization in a company. The interview was conducted on March 17, 2017 by Tiah Edmunson-Morton in the McMenamins Monroe brewery in Corvallis, Oregon.
Brad Clack is a retired hop buyer for SS Steiner (now Hopsteiner). In his interview, Clack talks about his family's farm work on the Oregon coast, growing up in Salem, Oregon, and changes in the hop industry since he started in 1978. Clack also talks about the importance of the relationships in the industry and challenges for handing down knowledge, as well as his experiences managing the hop marketing orders. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 22, 2017 at the Hopsteiner offices in Brookes, Oregon. Also present was Michelle McKay.
Sybil Perkins is the brand director and a board member for the Pink Boots Society. In her interview, Perkins talks about growing up in the Eugene/Springfield area, her interest and passion for arts and music, her early and evolving work as an activist, her experiences living in Philadelphia and New York City, and her return to the west coast to the greater Seattle area. She talks specifically about her work doing graphic design and marketing work with the brewing industry, her views on gender and inclusion, and how the mission and outreach of the Pink Boots Society has expanded over the past few years. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 27, 2017 at Perkins' home in Snohomish, Washington.
Robyn Schumacher is a brewer at Stoup Brewing in Seattle's Ballard district. In her interview, Schumacher talks about growing up in Spokane, her early interest in sports and science, and about choosing to go to Carroll College to study biology in Helena, Montana. Schumacher also discusses her early career as a high school teacher and factors that influenced her decision to shift to jobs in the restaurant and brewing industries. She talks specifically about learning to home brew, studying for the cicerone exam (she was the first woman in Washington to be certified), exploring the brewing community, and the story of her co-ownership of Stoup. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 27, 2017 at Stoup Brewing in Seattle, Washington.
Ralph Woodall works in sales for Yakima-Chief Hopunion, a company he has been with since the mid-1980s. In his interview, Woodall talks about his family history in the Yakima Valley, his work in the hop industry, his present role in the larger YCH company, and the changes in the Master Brewers Association of America with the decrease in large regional breweries and the emergence of the craft industry. Woodall also shows a number of pictures from festivals, trade shows, and other events he took over the years. Of special note are the pictures of NW brewers. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 28, 2017 at Yakima-Chief Hopunion in Yakima, Washington.
Tom Carpenter is a 4th generation hop grower based in Granger, Washington. In his interview, Carpenter talks about the history of hops in the Yakima Valley, his families' important role in the grower cooperative that eventually became Yakima Chief, the role of family in their business, and the role of Native Americans in the hops industry. This interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on March 28, 2017 at Carpenter Ranch in Granger, Washington.
​John Coleman is a hop grower based in St. Paul, Oregon. He manages the hops and perennial crops for Coleman Ag, a large family run company. In his interview Coleman talks about growing up in St. Paul, working on the farm, and attending OSU in the 1980s. He also talks extensively about the family business, including their partnership with Rogue Ales and the farm in Independence, potential collaboration with the brewery at the Abbey in Mount Angel, and ways he thinks the company can continue to grow or change to meet new needs. The interview was conducted by Michelle McKay in St. Paul, Oregon on April 19, 2017. Also present was Tiah Edmunson-Morton.
Dave Wills is the owner of Freshops, Oregon Trail Brewery, and Dave's Christmas Trees. In his interview, Wills talks about growing up in Southern California, moving to Oregon to attend OSU, and how his early interest in home brewing was sparked by a trip through Europe. He details the early home brewing community in Corvallis, establishing Fresh Hops to supply the home brewing community, and the evolution of Oregon Trail Brewing, which opened in October 1987. Wills also discusses changes he's seen in the local and state brewing industry, the hops supply business, and the consumers. This interview was conducted by Michelle McKay and Tiah Edmunson-Morton on April 24, 2017 at Oregon Trail Brewery in Corvallis Oregon.
Denny Conn is a home brewer, author, and podcaster. In his interview, Conn talks about his time playing and touring with rock bands, his work as an audio engineer, and how he became involved with home brewing. Conn is known for his experimental brewing techniques, and he details the evolution of his own brewing, how challenging traditional method or ingredients can advance a home brewers, his partnership with Drew Beechum in writing and podcasting, and the ways he's seen home brewing change over time. This interview was conducted on May 1, 2017 at the Valley Library in Corvallis, Oregon.
William Dettwyler grew up on a hop farm in Silverton, Oregon. In his interview he talks extensively about his family farm, processing facilities, and operations in the 1930s through the 1950s. This interview was conducted by Michelle McKay and Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 17, 2017 in the Valley Library in Corvallis, Oregon.
Jessica Just is the Director of Technical Services for Brew Dr. Kombucha in Portland, Oregon. Just was one of the first three graduates, and first female, from the OSU Fermentation Science program in the Food Science Department, which was established in 1995. In her interview Just discusses growing up in Portland, early home brewing experiences, her undergraduate and graduate work at OSU in the 1990s, work with the wine industry in California, and time in London and work with the local chapter of the Campaign for Real Ale. She also talks about moving back to Corvallis to take a job as an academic advisor and instructor for the Fermentation Science program, and her new job at Brew Dr. Kombucha. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on May 25, 2017 at the Valley Library in Corvallis, Oregon.
Joel Rea is the owner of Corvallis Brewing Supply. In his interview Rea talks about his early life in Kirkland, Washington; moving to Albany, Oregon in elementary school; his college work in environmental studies and the fine arts, and his decision to change careers to open a home brew shop. He also discusses his experiments with fermentation, brewers he's worked with and mentored, challenges to operate a supply shop in the Internet age, and how he's seen consumers evolve since the shop opened in 1997. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 8, 2017 at Corvallis Brewing Supply in downtown Corvallis.
Gary Fish is the founder and board president of Deschutes Brewery. In his interview, Fish talks about growing up in California, his early career in the restaurant industries in Utah, and the establishment of the brewery in Bend. He also discusses the evolution of the city of Bend, as well how the company has grown and expanded. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 12, 2017 in Bend, Oregon.
Veronica Vega is a Brewmaster at Deschutes Brewery, focusing on research and development. In her interview, Vega talks about growing up in Southern California, her college time at Humboldt State University studying Botany, her brief stint in the forest service, and her move to Bend. Vega also discusses how her work has changed at the company, including her movement up the company, starting as a tour guide and moving up to one of the top brewer position. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 12, 2017 in Bend, Oregon.
Karl Ockert is the Director of Brewery Operations at Deschutes Brewery. In his interview, Ockert talks about his childhood adventures, including home brewing with his mom, as well as his education at Humboldt State University and UC Davis, his role as the first brewer at BridgePort Brewing in Portland from 1984 to 1990, his time at Anheuser Busch in Newark, his return to BridgePort in 1996, his work at the Master Brewers Association of America as the Technical Director and as a professional brewing consultant, and his position at Deschutes Brewery. Ockert also talks about how he has seen the industry change and concerns he has about acquisitions of microbreweries by macro breweries. The interview was conducted by Tiah Edmunson-Morton on June 13, 2017 in Bend, Oregon.
These photographs document the programs, activities, and participants of the Asia University America Program (AUAP) at OSU. Subjects include Japanese and American students; AUAP faculty and staff; OSU President John Byrne and Asia University administrators; recreational activities including snow skiing; celebrations (including "Coming of Age" Day) and parties (including Halloween and Christmas); graduation ceremonies; campus buildings and views; athletics and campus events; views of Corvallis, Oregon; and trips by AUAP participants to various Oregon sites and events including the Portland Rose Festival and the Oregon coast.
This collection consists primarily of color prints, some color negatives, and a few b/w prints. Most of the prints have been affixed to self-adhesive photo album pages; the pages have been removed from the albums.
The College Bulletins consist of bulletins published by Oregon Agricultural College, and later Oregon State College, to promote the academic programs and outreach activities of the College. Amost 500 bulletins were published over 30 years from 1902 to 1932 and are available unbound, in bound volumes, and on microfilm.
The Bulletins cover a wide range of topics and include course catalogs, summer session bulletins, reports, announcements and booklets for short courses and other agricultural training, informational booklets for farmers and homemakers, and early youth program project publications. The collection includes booklets that publicize academic programs to future students and promote the full range of activities at the College. Booklets promoting the music education programs at the College are included.
Items from this collection have been digitized and are available in Oregon Digital.
Series 1 consists of about 75 of the published bulletins that are available as unbound issues in this archival collection.
Photographic informational book about Oregon Agricultural College in Corvallis Oregon. This item is available online.
2 copies
2 copies
June 15-July 24
June 19 - June 30
A call to join the military.
This item is available online.
This item is available online.
June 18 - July 28 1923
March 30-31
This item is available online.
This item is available online.
Supplement too 400: School for Athlectic Coaches Featuring Knute Rockne and Karl Heckrich, Summer Session June 22-July 31, 1925. The bulletin and the supplement are available online.
Feburary 21-23, 1925. This item is available online.
Feburary 1 - 19, 1926
by the School of Vocational Education
June 14-July 26 1929
Oregon State School of Engineering
2 Copies
June 16-July 25
Created by Oregon State School of Engineering
Published by the State Board of Higher Education.
June 2-July 31
January 25 - February 10
Series 2 consists of 2 bound volumes described as vocational guidance booklets and handbooks. One of the items, What's What at Oregon State, does not have an assigned bulletin number.
This volume includes The Turn of the Tide, 1927 (no 426) about agricultural education; Speech Training and Personality, 1927 (no. 432); and Education in Aeronautics, 1929 (no. 456).
This volume includes Facts about the College, 1928 (no. 444); College Courses at Oregon State, 1929 (no. 455); The Booklet of the Summer Session, 1927 (no. 431); and What's What at Oregon State, circa 1929.
Series 3 is an item-level description of College Bulletins that are available in bound volumes in the History of OSU Book Collection in the Special Collections and Archives Research Center (HistOSU LD 4337. A2). This item-level list also serves as a list of the bulletins that are available on the microfilm described as Series 4. These bound volumes include posters and other oversize items that are fragile and require careful handling.
January 3 - February 17.
Supplement: Winter Short Course January 3 - February 9.
Supplement: Training School of Mines Man for Development of Oregon's Geological Resources
January 6 - February 7.
Poster
January 5- 31
Poster. January 5-31
January 14-15
June 17-30
January 4-30
February 1-6
June 16-29
Poster
January 7 - February 1
June 21 - July 31
Junes 20 - July 30
June 19 - July 20
March 20-25
June 19- June 29
June 19- July 29
March 30-31
With Supplements
Supplement: School ofor Rural Electric Service Men
Series 4 consists of 9 reels of microfilmed versions of the College Bulletins made by the former University Archives in the 1960s or 1970s.
Ends with page 282 of Bulletin no. 30.
Begins with page 282 of Bulletin no. 30 and ends with page 257 of Bulletin no. 75.
Begins with page 258 of Bulletin no. 75.
Ends with page 122 of Bulletin no. 312.
Begins with page 123 of Bulletin no. 312.
Ends with page 329 of Bulletin no. 405.
Begins with page 330 of Bulletin no. 405 and ends with page 161 of Bulletin no. 447.
Begins with page 162 of Bulletin no. 447.
The Claud L. Booth Photograph Album was assembled by Booth to document his student years at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC), primarily from 1919 to 1924. The images depict student activities, sports teams and events, athletes, and coaches. Several photographs of the rook-sophomore tug-of-war are part of the album as well as an image of yell leaders and the band marching in downtown Corvallis. About half of the album's images depict sports at Oregon Agricultural College and include photographs of individual athletes and coaches, teams, and athletic events. Images for baseball, basketball, football, soccer, track, and wrestling are included, with baseball and basketball comprising the majority. Of special note are a team photograph of the 1919 OAC soccer team as well as photographs of A.T. (Slats) Gill as a basketball player; W.A. Kearns, Director of Athletics; and baseball coach, Ralph Coleman. Booth is depicted in photographs of the 1920 freshman baseball team and the 1921 baseball team as well as the 1919 soccer team. Group photographs of students in the Class of 1923 as freshmen and of the Class of 1923 at its 50th reunion in 1973 are part of the collection; Booth is included in both of these images.
The album includes snapshots of places that Booth visited outside of Oregon, including New Orleans, El Paso, Tucson, Mount Shasta, and Orr's Lake. The collection also includes a ribbon for the OAC vs Washington State College football game on November 11, 1921 and a dance card for the Varsity O winter formal in 1927. Photographs that were not attached to the album pages have been placed in a separate folder housed with the album.
Most of the collection consists of drafts of speeches, statements, news releases, and correspondence written by Shideler for President James H. Jensen, 1961-1969. This series also includes a photocopy of a scrapbook compiled to document the recognition dinner given for Jensen at the time of his retirement in 1969.
The remainder of the collection consists of subject files. These include a typescript of a biography of President William Jasper Kerr, by Edwin T. Reed; materials pertaining to the retirement of E. B. Lemon and President A. L. Strand; records of an oral history project documenting the career of Strand; materials pertaining to the University's Centennial in 1968; a student paper written by Shideler in 1940; papers presented at annual meetings of the National Association of State Universities and Land Grant Colleges in 1962 and 1970; and photographs of James H. Jensen.
The M.B. Spillard Photograph Collection consists of photographic postcards of Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) buildings and campus views. The collection also includes images of a football game between OAC and the University of Oregon and a freshman football team. Of note is a photographic postcard of the first train from North Bend to Eugene with a message from Walker B. to the members of Phi Delta Sigma fraternity that was sent in May 1916.
The collection includes photographic postcards published by the Pacific Photo Company of Salem, Oregon, and the Pacific Novelty Company of San Francisco.
The collection includes correspondence with other agronomists and seed companies, subject information files and research reports pertaining to Schoth's research interests and field notebooks documenting field trials at the college's various research farms around Corvallis. Most of the photographs depict grasses and cover crops.
The Plans and Profiles of Oregon Rivers consist of maps prepared by the U.S. Geological Survey documenting surveys of rivers and streams. The bulk of the collection (181 sheets) is comprised of river plans and profiles; the remainder of the collection (34 sheets) is dam site and reservoir plans. The plans depict topography adjacent to the river or stream, typically to an elevation high enough above the water surface to include the area of proposed reservoir sites, possible canals or conduits, or other structures related to water utilization. The profiles depict the elevation of the stream surface over a given reach of the waterway. The maps include general location maps and depict notable features such as roads, railroads, and landmarks. Some of the dam site and reservoir plans include topographic cross sections of the stream or river at the dam site. Information about the area and capacity of the reservoir are also included on many of these sheets.
The collection documents primarily rivers in Oregon; however, rivers and streams in bordering regions of Washington, Idaho, and California that are part of the Columbia, Snake, or Klamath drainages are also part of the collection. Maps of the major tributaries of the Willamette River, including the North and South Santiam and McKenzie Rivers are included. Many coastal rivers, such as the Nehalem, Nestucca, Siletz, Siuslaw, Trask, Umpqua, and Wilson Rivers are also depicted in the collection.
The plans range in scale from 1:2,400 to 1:31,680; most are at a scale of 1:4,800. Contour intervals are 10 or 20 feet on land and 1 to 15 feet on water.
Series I consists of plans depicting topography near rivers and profiles showing the change in elevation with distance over a given reach of the waterway.
In California and Oregon.
In Washington.
In Washington and Oregon.
In Washington.
In California and Oregon.
In Oregon, Idaho, and Wyoming.
Series II consists of maps of dam sites and reservoirs; some sheets include topographic cross sections of the stream or river at the dam site. The area (in acres) of the reservoir and capacity in acre-feet are provided in tabular and or graphic form on many sheets.
In Washington.
In Washington.
On Imnaha River.
In Washington.
On Middle Fork Willamette River.
Include sites on the Nehalem, Alsea, and Siuslaw Rivers; Lake Creek; and the Chetco, Sixes, Pistol, and Millicoma Rivers on the south coast.
In Washington.
In California and Oregon.
The Donald L. Mason Photographs consist of images taken and collected by Mason during his student years and as an Industrial Arts Instructor at Oregon State College. The images depict the campus foundry and other industrial arts facilities, items made at the foundry, techniques such as sand molding, and students in foundry classes. The collection includes a photograph of Ambrose Ridenour, who was a foundry instructor at Oregon State from 1911 until about 1933. The brass and metal objects featured in the photographs include candelabras, a sundial, door knockers, lamps and a knife handle. The collection also includes printed illustrations of tools and machinery for metal making sold by the Artcraft Company and the Central Engraving Company (both of Cleveland).
The Carey L. Strome Papers consist of materials generated and assembled by alumnus Strome as a student in agriculture at Oregon Agricultural College in the early 1910s. The Papers include class notes, course materials and class assignments, and publications. The class notes are for a bacteriology course in fall 1912. The course materials consist of student score cards for livestock judging and dairy separator work assignments.
The publications include Department of Entomology Circular Letter no. 1, Fumigation, by A.L. Lovett (1914); The Business Side of Farming - Part I Farm Records by J.A. Bexell (1911; College Bulletin no. 33); Water Laws of Oregon (1913); and Table of Logarithms for Chemical Calculations by the Department of Chemistry (1914).
The Carolyn Schelling Scrapbook consists of materials created and assembled by Schelling. The materials primarily document Schelling's attendance and activities during the 1916 Summer Session at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC). The collection includes a scrapbook; photographs, memorabilia, and publications that were not affixed in the scrapbook; and two posters.
The photographs are primarily photographic postcards and snapshots. The images depict Schelling and her friends, campus buildings and views, the Lady of the Fountain, an OAC pillow, Marys Peak and the Willamette River, various summer session activities, and perhaps the home where Schelling lived at 820 S 11th Street. Of particular note is a panoramic postcard print titled "A View of the Country at Corvallis, Oregon" showing a view to the west from about 14th Street of the southern part of the OAC campus and the residential area between Washington and Western Streets and west of 14th Street.
The memorabilia includes a broadside of a moonlight dance given by the Corvallis Women's Club; a Majestic Theater movie schedule; and summer session ephemera.
The publications include the Program of Recitations and Directory of Instructors for the 1916 Summer Session and the June 1978 issue of OCEAN, the Oregon College of Education Alumni News.
Of particular note are the two posters: One is for the third annual women's pageant on June 2nd, 1916. The second poster is for the Corvallis Chatauqua in July 1916, which featured motion pictures of Antarctica, the New York City Marine Band, and Balmer's Kaffir Boy Choir of Africa.
The Zoa Lowthian Photograph Album was assembled by alumna Zoa Lowthian to document her student experience at Oregon Agricultural College in the late 1920s and early 1930s. In addition to campus buildings and views, the album includes snapshots of friends and family in Washington, Oregon, Montana, and South Dakota. The images include portrait photographs of Lowthian and other students; candid snapshots of friends; and views of construction of the homecoming bonfire. Many of the family photographs include children as well as pet dogs and cats. Several of the images are hand-colored.
The album also includes some clippings from newspapers and magazines and a drawing. Most of the clippings are poems or quotations. The collection also includes several ephemeral items that are not affixed to the album -- Lowthian's diploma from Oregon State Agricultural College; her membership certificate in the Rho Chi Honorary Society; a junior standing certificate; and a reference letter from A. Ziefle, School of Pharmacy Dean, stating that she had completed her BS in Pharmacy in 1932. A small leather certificate holder with the Oregon Agricultural College seal on the cover is also part of the collection.
The Centro Cultural César Chávez Records document activities and events organized by the center such as staff retreats, open houses, César Chávez Tribute Month, holiday celebrations, lectures, and workshops pertaining to Latino/a community issues. Also of note are several marches and demonstrations that are depicted in the collection.
The collection consists of administrative records, information on events and community outreach, financial records, photographs, a small collection of films, and publications generated by the Centro Cultural César Chávez. Collection contents include administrative notes, meeting minutes, staff notes, agendas, maintenance documents, forms, staff bios, and files pertaining to the various cultural centers on campus. Also included are materials pertaining to events such as Día de Los Muertos/ Day of the Dead and the César Chávez Tribute Celebration, budget requests, invoices, pay roll, purchase requests, and statement documents. Photographic materials include undated color photographs and 16 digitized photograph albums that are available online. The albums include about 1350 photographs depicting the Center staff; Oregon State students, faculty, and staff who participated in Center events and activities; and numerous events and activities during the 1990s and 2000s. The original albums have been retained by the Center. The small collection of films and recorded events include 1 DVD and 4 digitized recordings (the orginal VHS tapes were not retained). Content ranges from a movie about the Los Angeles Chicano blowouts of the 1960s to UFW materials and a lecture. Publications consist of brochures, flyers, newsletters, and a number of newspaper clippings.
Series 1 consists of administrative records generated by the Centro Cultural César Chávez and groups affiliated with the Centro. The series consists of administrative notes, meeting minutes, staff notes, agendas, maintenance procedures, staff bios, and files pertaining to the other cultural centers on campus. Administrative documents consist primarily of advisory board policies, correspondence, and schedules for the Memorial Union Board of Directors, Office of Student Affairs, and the Hispanic Cultural Center. Other documents include information regarding catering services, program planning, and event reservations. Examples of maintenance include additions to the Centro over the years, janitorial duties, and event planning forms. The staff documents range from staff lists to job applications and bios.
Series 2 consists of records pertaining to the Centro Cultural César Chávez community outreach. The records include a syllabus, daily journals, and minority group information as part of the Cultural Resource Center Coordinator Success Class, a course taken by future cultural center coordinators. Also included are materials pertaining to events organized by the Centro include planning forms, flyers, purchase requests, receipts, notes, and newspaper clippings. Events represented in the collection include the Centro Cultural César Chávez Groundbreaking, Connect Week events, “Danny” a Chicano play, multiple Día de Los Muertos/ Day of the Dead events, and the César Chávez Tribute Celebration, among others. The series also consists of two guest books dating from 1970 to the mid-2000s as well as resources for Chicano/Latino students such as educational and scholarship materials from the 1970s.
Folder 1 of 2
Folder 2 of 2
Series 3 contains the budget requests, invoices, pay roll, purchase requests, and statement documents of the Centro Cultural César Chávez. All documents are in chronological order from oldest to most recent and range from 1990 to 2014. The purchase requests contain receipts and some may contain flyers that correspond to the purchase request event.
Series 4 consists of 16 digitized photograph albums and a folder with 30 color photographs documenting activities and programs of the Centro Cultural César Chávez. The photographs are dated 1999, but not all photographs belong to the same event. Digital albums range from 9 to 68 pages; most are 25-40 pages. The albums include about 1350 photographs as well as several brochures, posters, newsletters, and a few newspaper clippings.
Album 1 includes 66 scanned album pages with a total of 124 photographs. The images depict 4Cs' events and activities such as dinners and dances, a Teatro Mestizo performance, a boat trip, the building of the 4Cs' deck, various gatherings at and within the 4Cs, and the event Noche Bohemia El Encuentro de Dos Mundos / The Encounter of Two Worlds on January 31, 1992. The album also includes photographs of Center staff in the early 1990s.
Album 2 includes 32 scanned album pages with a total of 71 photographs. The photographs depict 4Cs staff posing by the new Center sign, dance and guitar performances, and various gatherings at and within the Centro Cultural César Chávez.
Album 3 includes 25 scanned album pages with a total of 62 photographs. The photographs depict a variety of events and activities including a retreat to Otter Crest (1991-1992); camping in Madras (1992); a retreat to the Oregon Coast (1993); Cinco de Mayo festivities (1991-1992 and 1992-1993); a ski trip (1992-1993); Bohemia Night, How to Build a Nation in Indigenous Ways (1993); cooking for Hispanic Month (1993); the MeChA conference in Portland (1993); a camping trip (1993); summer Educational Opportunities Program (EOP) freshmen (1993-1994); and the Fall Cultural Centers Open House (1993-1994).
Album 4 includes 49 scanned album pages with a total of 150 photographs. The photographs depict the Student Activities Fair; the first Hispanic Student Association (HSU) meeting of 1994-1995; the Bolivian sweater sale fundraiser in October 1994; a concert by Condor; the HSU thank you meeting in February 1995; a protest march regarding immigration; and various other gatherings. The album includes numerous images of the annual Hispanic Night event including a display in the Memorial Union East, ticket sales, a rehearsal, cooking, preparing decorations and setting up, serving food, and dancing.
Album 5 includes 68 scanned album pages with a total of 99 photographs. The photographs depict Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) altars; the interior of the Center; Día del Amor y la Amistad (Valentine's Day) preparation and celebration; a volleyball game; and various unspecified gatherings and events. This album also includes a document with the Center's mission statement, a brief history, and services provided by the Center as well as several issues of the Center's newsletter, El Mensajero. The album only includes the first page of the October 1997 and January 1998 issues; all of the spring issue (April 1998) is included.
Album 6 includes 20 scanned album pages with a total of 19 photographs. This album documents El Mensajero. Photographs depict preparation for the event; speaker Dolores Huerta with students and Center staff; and the dinner and lecture in the Memorial Union Ballroom.
Album 7 includes 9 scanned album pages with a total of 33 photographs. The photographs depict the Kick Off barbecue in June; Summer Outdoor Olympics in July; and the All-Cultural-Center Garage Sale in August. Photographs of staff members of the 4Cs as well as other Cultural Centers are included.
Album 8 includes 20 scanned album pages with a total of 48 photographs. The photographs depict the All-Cultural-Center Staff Retreat in Lincoln City, January 2001; Día del Amor y la Amistad (Valentine's Day), February 2001; and Día de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) preparation and celebration including an Aztec Dancers performance, November 2000. Images of 4Cs staff and attendees at various events are also included; many of these individuals are identified.
Album 9 includes 19 scanned album pages with a total of 63 photographs. The photographs depict the Christmas Gift Exchange; Midnight Breakfast; Valentine's Day festivities; a demonstration at the Oregon State Capital in support of Senate Bill (SB) 10; a tour of the 4Cs for young students; and dance performances. Photographs of the Center staff are also included.
Album 10 includes 18 scanned album pages with a total of 97 photographs. The photographs depict various gatherings during October 2003; a food demo, February 2004; bowling night, February 2004; computer classes for adults and daycare for attendees' children, February 2004; and an awards ceremony.
Album 11 includes 38 scanned album pages with a total of 104 photographs. All of the images in this album depict a protest march against House Resolution (HR) 4437, the Border Protection, Anti-terrorism, and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005. The photographs show the march from the Oregon State University campus to the Benton County Courthouse in downtown Corvallis.
Album 12 includes 40 scanned album pages with a total of 156 photographs. The album includes photographs of César Chávez Tribute Month activities, in April 2008, including the César Chávez Tribute Dinner, symposium, and candle light vigil; a keynote speech and workshop regarding Latinos in the Media by Lalo Alcaraz and a presentation on Che Guevara by OSU Professor Joseph Orosco. Images of an open police forum and discussion on racial profiling, February 2008; an "I Heard It in Class" conference, April 2008; the 4Cs open house, October 2007; the OSU Talent Show; Baila con Mexico / Dance with Mexico; Spanish conversation nights, February and March 2008; Condoms and Candies, February 2008; All Centers Retreat, January 2008; Ropes Course event; and Loteria Night are also part of the album. Photographs of a presentation by Professor Dan Goldrich, "Stop Blaming the Victim: Immigration in Historical Context"; Cumbia lessons; Día del Niño / Children's Day; and 4Cs staff are included.
Album 13 includes 34 scanned album pages with a total of 76 photographs. The photographs depict various events and activities during the year including a women's self-defense course, October 2008; Noche Caliente, November 2008; Stress Reliever Day, December 2008; "Welcome Back!" event, January 2009; "Candies and Condoms" sex education event, February 2009; Chicana Feminist Fair, February 2009; OSU Talent Show, March 2009; and "Fear Factor Live" event, March 2009. Tribute Month Events in April 2009 included a dinner and dance; blood drive; candlelight vigil; Día de los Niños; Viva La Causa movie discussion; Professor Joseph Orosco lecture and book signing on César Chávez; and a tree planting and rededication ceremony. The album also includes photographs of 4Cs staff members: Emanuel Magaña, external coordinator; Hunn An Pope, internal coordinator; Leo Soto Jr., activities; Yessenia Alarcon, activities; Mike Shingle, publications coordinator; Cindy Hernandez, community outreach coordinator; Yesenia Leon, activities office assistant; Valerie Ortega, activities office assistant; Patrici Baez, office assistant; Christina Bein, office assistant; Nancy Perez, office assistant; and Wolof, G.T.A.
Album 14 includes 30 scanned album pages with a total of 111 photographs. The photographs depict various events and activities during the year, including the 4Cs open house, October 2009; "Cupcakes and Condoms" Valentine's Day event, February 2010; fried ice cream workshop, February 2010; and Tribute Month with keynote speakers Patty Sakuri and Jesus Jaime Diaz, April 2010. Brochures or posters for the following events are included in the album: Salsa con Sabor, November 2009; "Test and Time Management" workshop, October 2009; "Stress and Homesickness" presentation, November 2009; Transforming Columbus Day, October, 2009; and "Systems of Oppression" presentation with Philosophy Professor Lani Roberts. Photographs of 4Cs staff members are part of the album: Juana D. Luna, activities coordinator; Tomas Cortes, publications coordinator; Pepe Zamora, office assistant; Letty Rodriguez, office assistant; Valerie Ortega, activities coordinator; and Yesenia Chavez, office assistant.
Album 15 includes 24 scanned album pages with a total of 47 photographs. A variety of Center events and activities are depicted in the album: 4Cs Open House; Los Tres Reyes Magos / The Three Wise Men celebration; Día de los Muertos / The Day of the Dead celebration, November 2010; Cupcakes and Condoms, February 2011; Corridos presentation by Jim Garcia; How to Build a Burrito event; Pachucos presentation by Pedro Arenas; César Chávez Tribute Dinner, April 2011. Posters for Cumbia dance lessons, November 2011, and a Traditional Posada Night, November 2011, are included. Photographs of 4Cs staff for 2010-2011 are part of the album.
Album 16 consists of 31 scanned album pages with a total of 87 photographs. The album includes photographs of staff training; Multicultural Tailgater; Transforming Columbus Day event; Día de los Muertos / The Day of the Dead celebration, November 2011; Posada Night; Cumbia Night; Indigenous People of The Americas event; Secret Santa / Christmas celebration, December 2011; Valentine's Day, February 2012; Latin@ Heroes presentation; Tribute Month Events flyer, April, 2012; Occupy Movement and Latin@s presentation by OSU Professor Joseph Orosco, April 2012; Single Parenting Factors Affecting Child Development presentation by CASA – Voices for Children Executive Director Maria Chavez-Haroldson; and the César Chávez Tribute Dinner, April 2012. A group photograph of the staff for 2011-2012 is part of the album.
Series 5 consists of event recordings and films belonging to the Centro Cultural César Chávez including: the films Walkout and César E. Chávez Celebration of Life as well as the event recordings “Chiapas Guest Speaker”, “The Candle Ceremony”, and “Bailes de Mexico.” Four of the five recordings are available online; Walkout is available in DVD format.
Bailes de Mexico (01:31:00) showcases a number of Mexican folk dances. Toward the end of the video there are step by step instructions of the dances.
César E. Chávez Celebration of Life (00:14:42) highlights the vigil and funeral services held for César E. Chávez after he passed away in April 23, 1993. The video was produced by volunteer staff of the United Farm Workers of America, AFL-CIO in 1994.
Chiapas Guest Speaker (1:05:29) features guest speaker Agricultural Engineer Pablo Montero Santos from Chiapas, Mexico. On November 28, 1994 he led a small talk regarding the Zapatista movement of Emiliano Zapata during the Mexican Revolution and the at the current time Zapatista movement.
The Candle Ceremony (00:12:49) by the César E. Chávez Foundation was an event that took place on March 31, 1995, in honor of César Chávez. The short video features Latino/a celebrities such as Lou Diamond Phillips, Edward James Olmos, Cheech Marin, Rosanna DeSoto, and Martin Sheen. All are honoring César Chávez’s lucha/struggle by lighting candles as they recite excerpts from César Chávez’s memoirs.
Walkout (01:51:03) is a 2006 film produced by HBO about the East Los Angeles Walkouts (Chicano Blowouts) of 1968. The walkouts were in protest of the poor quality of education being offered to Mexican American students; it was also one of the first mass mobilizations by Mexican Americans in Southern California. 1 DVD
Series 6 consists of brochures, flyers, newsletters, and newspaper clippings published by or about the Centro Cultural César Chávez. Many of the flyers are of events hosted by the 4Cs or one of the cultural centers on campus; there are also Memorial Union and University events. Flyers are sorted by year; those without dates are at the front followed by oldest to most recent. Most of the brochures have information on the 4Cs such as its purpose, history, mission statement, and contact information. Also included are a dozen or so newsletters published by the 4Cs, these range from 1989 to 2010. The first of the newsletters was published when the 4Cs was still referred to as the Hispanic Cultural Center. Across the years the newsletter changed names from El Obrero to El Mensajero and finally kept as Newsletter. The newsletters have information of interest to the Latino/a community in Corvallis and especially Latino/a students attending Oregon State University. There are a number of newspaper clippings that were collected by the 4Cs over the years, mostly from OSU’s The Barometer. Some of the articles focus on issues that impact the Latino/a community, others mention events hosted by the 4Cs, and some deal specifically with the Centro.
The Student Health Services Records document the administration and provision of health and medical services to Oregon State University students. The bulk of the collection consists of policies and procedures (Series 1) and the meeting records of the Leadership and Management Teams and the nursing staff (Series 2). These series document the establishment and implementation of protocols for the application of medical treatment; screening of students for communicable diseases; vaccination requirements; safety and emergencies; and medical records and patient privacy.
A small quantity of financial records provide information about the costs incurred to provide medical care to Army students on campus during World War II.
The subject files document programs and activities as well as health and medical topics. Of note are materials documenting health services provided to youth participating in 4-H summer programs on campus during the 1930-1950s; interactions with the Oregon State Board of Health and the central administration of Oregon State College; biographical information about Student Health professional staff in the 1930s-1940s; the medical excuses policy for student absences; and the Student Health response to the SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak. Annual reports, statistical summaries, and staff newsletters round out the collection.
Series 1 consists of Student Health policies and procedures that guide staff in the application of medical treatment; screening of students for communicable diseases, such as tuberculosis; equipment handling; and the management of patient information and medical records. Procedures pertaining to safety and emergencies; the Hepatitis B virus, HIV (or AIDS), and reportable diseases; student workers, waste disposal; immunizations; and quarantines are outlined in these materials. Many of the policy statements have handwritten annotations of revisions and updates. Most folders have an index listing the policies and procedures that are included. These materials cover the late 1920s thru mid-1950s and the mid-1980s through 2015.
3 folders
3 folders
Series 2 consists of agendas, minutes, and related documentation for meetings of the leadership and nursing staff of Student Health Services as well as other shorter-term Student Health Committees. The Leadership and Management Team meetings primarily address administration and management of Student Health; the nursing staff meetings includes updates as well as discussions of protocols and procedures.
2 folders
Series 3 provides limited information about the income and expenses of Student Health, primarily during the 1930s-1950s. Budget information for the late 1980s-early 1990s is also included. Of special note is information about the costs incurred to provide healthcare to Army students on campus during World War II.
2 folders
Series 4 consists of newsletters published during the 1990s that are primarily intended for Student Health Services employees.
Staff newsletter for Student Health Services employees.
This newsletter was initially focused on staff and provided updates, kudos, and announcements of interest and use to Student Health Services employees. The newsletter transitioned into a publication for the whole campus in the later issues and included more information about health promotion and wellness programs and activities.
Series 5 consists of materials on a variety of subjects that address the administration of Student Health Services; interactions between Student Health and other units at Oregon State and state agencies, such as the Oregon State Board of Health; the medical excuses policy for student absences developed in 1998; the Student Health response to the SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome) outbreak; and student satisfaction with Student Health programs and services. This series includes three annotated telephone guides used by Student Health nurses to address questions received by telephone on general medical and health matters, pediatrics, and obstetrics and gynecology. This series includes statistics and annual reports summarizing clients served, programs, activities.
Other materials of note include records documenting health services provided to youth participants in 4-H summer programs on the Oregon State campus from the 1930s through mid-1950s and biographical information about health services professional staff in the 1930s-1940s. The Executive Offices correspondence documents interactions between the Student Health Service Director and senior administrators, including the College President, regarding budgets, facilities, and staffing. Memoranda to all deans and department heads are also included with this correspondence.
Announcements to all Oregon State University faculty and staff regarding the flu vaccine shortage.
Announcements of new programs sponsored by Student Health.
October 1943.
2 folders
2 folders
The Benton County (Or.) Extension Service Records consist of materials generated and assembled by the Extension Service Office in Benton County. The Records primarily document a variety of activities and programs, primarily pertaining to forestry operations and Christmas tree farms during the tenure of Extension Forester Richard A. (Rick) Fletcher. The collection includes brochures, bylaws, cds, correspondence, meeting minutes, newsletters, newspaper clippings, photographs, research data, reports, and survey records. Information about forestry demonstration projects, tours and workshops, 4-H forestry programs, and collaboration with local forestry operations and Christmas tree farms are included as well as Extension Service planning materials, surveys, and research records. About a third of the materials reflect research projects in the Benton County area, primarily relating to Christmas tree farming. Materials documenting research on the cultivation of cottonwoods and ponderosa pines are also included. Records of the Oregon Small Woodlands Association are part of the collection.
The photographs consist of 95 slides and 60 prints depicting a forestry tour in Japan, the 1996 National Tree Farm Conference, examples of agro-forestry farming, and Bert Udell.
Personal files include personal data and a response prepared by Stuhr and others to an AAUP report on William Jasper Kerr. KOAC radio talks cover a wide range of topics intended for a lay audience. Publications and papers include journal reprints; copies of Stuhr's book, Manual of Pacific Coast Drug Plants; and copies of papers presented at meetings. Series four includes conference proceedings and programs.
roundtable discussion
This collection consists primarily of photographic negatives made by Jay W. Blair documenting campus buildings and grounds and student activities during Blair's years at Oregon State College. The collection includes images of Blair and other students; panoramic views of campus and of a military review; and views of campus buildings, construction of the homecoming bonfire, the Alpha Gamma Delta sorority house, damage to campus trees by the 1941 ice storm, and the Mary's River dam.
All photographs are 2.75 x 4.5 negatives unless otherwise indicated.
The Jo Anne J. Trow Papers consist of materials generated and collected by Trow that document her career at Oregon State University, college education, involvement in professional organizations, receipt of awards, and service in community organizations. The collection includes certificates, correspondence, diplomas, drawings, employment records, greeting cards, a guestbook, newspaper clippings, photographs, plaques, a scrapbook, speeches, student papers, a thesis, and a VHS videotape.
About half of the collection -- which includes the guestbook, scrapbook, videotape, and greeting cards - reflects events and notes of congratulations on Trow's promotion to Vice President and on her retirement. The two professional organizations reflected in these papers are NAWDAC (National Association of Women's Deans, Administrators, and Counselors) and NASPA (National Association of Student Personnel Administrators). A copy of Trow's doctoral dissertation, Residence Halls Goals and Objectives: Perceptions of Students and Staff, completed at Michigan State University is part of the collection. A student paper, written in the 1980s, about the 1972 murder of Oregon State student Nancy Diane Wyckoff is included with the collection.
The photographs are color prints; five of the prints are included with the scrapbook of letters and other remembrances prepared at the time of her retirement in 1995. The other images are of Trow with other Corvallis civic leaders and a 1995 image of Trow forming the "OSU" letters with two OSU students near her office in the Kerr Administration Building.
The Ralph I. Gifford Photographs consist of images taken by Gifford throughout Oregon, primarily during the 1930s and 1940s. Many of Ralph Gifford's landscape photographs complement those he took for the State Highway Commission, as they were taken at the same time. He extensively photographed the Oregon Coast, Crater Lake, Silver Falls, Mount Hood and Timberline Lodge, the Pendleton Round-Up, the Wallowa Mountains, and the Snake River Canyon. Many of his photographs were made into postcards or view sets, which were sold at souvenir shops throughout the state.
Gifford also photographed the Columbia River Gorge, Multnomah Falls, and the Columbia River Highway; the Oregon State Capitol and other state buildings in Salem; the Oregon Caves; highway bridges on the Oregon coast; and Oregon agriculture, especially orchards and ranches. Several Oregon rivers are depicted in the collection, including the Chetco, Imnaha, John Day, McKenzie, and Rogue Rivers as well as numerous Cascade Mountain lakes. Scenes of Portland, Brookings, and Salem are part of the collection. The collection includes numerous images of sport fishing and fishermen as well as several images of Native Americans, especially participating in the Pendleton Round-Up. Chief Clarence Burke, of the Umatilla Indians, is depicted in several photographs. Images of Gifford's wife, Wanda, and children are part of the collection.
The collection includes photographs Gifford took while stationed at Whiddy Island, Ireland, in the U.S. Navy during World War I. These images depict fellow servicemen, the local people of Whiddy Island, houses and structures, and landscapes and towns on the island.
The bulk of the collection consists of film negatives (853 items) and prints (902 items). Film negatives are predominantly 4x5 format; however, 5x7 and 8x10 formats are also included. The prints include 8x10 and larger sizes as well as postcard prints. The collection also includes 256 nitrate negatives, 22 glass negatives, and 56 color positive transparencies.
Many images in the collection are available online in several digital collections.
Series I consists primarily of photographs taken by Ralph Gifford while he was stationed on Whiddy Island, Ireland, with the U.S. Navy during World War I. The images depict Gifford's fellow servicemen, the military installation, the local people of Whiddy Island, houses and structures, and landscapes and towns on the island. All of the images are nitrate negatives and are available online in the Best of the Archives digital collection. The series also includes one print, collected by Gifford, of the King of England visiting an American ship.
Photo by Denson.
Series II consists of photographs of Ralph Gifford's family, including his wife Wanda and children Ralph, Jr., and Benjamin L. The series consists primarily of glass negative; it also includes several nitrate negatives.
Wanda Gifford in one image.
Series III consists of nitrate negatives of a variety of subjects including individuals and groups, many participating in outdoor activities, and scenes in the Cascades and on the Oregon Coast. Most of the images of individuals and groups are unidentified; some of these may be of Gifford Family activities and outings. The negatives include some large format (8x10) images; however, many of the negatives are 4x6 or smaller snapshots. Prints for several of the negatives are also included. One image is available only as a print; no negative for that image is included.
Children.
Perhaps Henry Thompson, son of Chief Tommy Thompson.
May include Gifford Family members.
Series IV comprises the bulk of the Ralph Gifford Photographs and consists of photographs made by Gifford throughout Oregon during the 1930s and 1940s. Only a few of the images are dated. The series includes views of Mount Hood and the Hood River Valley; the Columbia River Gorge, including Multnomah Falls; the Oregon Coast, especially the southern Oregon Coast; Crater Lake; the Pendleton Round-Up; central and eastern Oregon ranches; the Oregon State Capital building and grounds and other Salem, Oregon, scenes; Silver Creek Falls State Park; and the Wallowa Mountains. The images were assigned four-digit numbers by Gifford; similar unnumbered views are also included in this series. Original film negatives (primarily 4x5 plus some 5x7 and 8x10) are available for most of the images; multiple prints are included for some images. The series includes original photographs and master copy negatives for the Oregon in Miniature souvenir sets.
Same view as 106?
15 counts F11
Gelundesprung; ski jumping.
Crater Lake?
2 counts, F2, F11 stop; glass negative is broken.
50th sec. F16; G filter
Same girl as in image 0603.
One of the girls is the same as in image 0603.
One of the girls is the same as in image 0603.
4x5 speed graphic, superpan film, 1 100th. F22 G filter
5x7 Eastman View Superpan film; 1/100 F22, G filter
Postcard (PC) #157; 4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/25 exposure; F22 stop; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60-a; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
8x10 East. View camera; 7 1/2" Protar lens; 1/25 at F32; SPP film; developed in 60A; Velox paper; developed in EK 72
Hand-colored print on exhibit.
4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/50 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom F#3 paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/50 sec. at F22; G. filter; F8 12 counts overall; Kodabowide F2 B extra on foreground then give mountail a little more
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/50 at F22; G. Filter
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/200 at F16; Superpan Press film; print numbered 202.
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/50 at F16; Superpan Press film; 6 counts foreground on up to 10 counts mountian F8 stop; Sepia G#3=8x10 vertical 30 sec and 10 sec on mountain; new soup 5 counts straight 1 extra mountain
4x5 Speed Graphic; 1/100 at F22; G. filter; Superpan Press film; one #5 flash bulb in fire and one on camera
5x7 Eastman View, 1/25 at F22; Superpan Press film; cloudy
5x7 Eastman View; 1/50 at F22; G. filter; Superpan Press film; made from top of 70 ft. tree; 4 counts F11 F2 paper
Postcard (PC) #167; G3 F11 4 sec.; F3 paper 7H stop 6 counts; black and white with border
5x7 Eastman View; 1/50 at F22; Superpan Press film; owned by Comm. Ben Day
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/100 at F16; G. filter; Superpan Press film
Similar to 0626.
4x5 Speed Graphic, 1/100 at F16; G. filter; Superpan Press film
4x5 SG camera; 4.5-K.A. lens; 1/200 at F12; G filter; SPP film; developed in K.K. 60A; F. Kodabrom paper; developed in EK #72
4x5 K.A.; 1/200 at F12; G. filter; SPP film; developed in 60 A; F. Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
Postcard (PC) #156; 4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/50 at F16; G. filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom F3 paper; developed in EK 72.
Six views; print of view A; views A, B, C, D, and E are 4x5 negatives; view F is a 5x7 negative. 4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/200 at F22; K2 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom F3 paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/200 at F26; K2 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom F3 paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; 4.5 K.A. lens; 1/200 at F16; G. filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
Vertical; 8x10 East View camera; Vesito soft focus lens; 1/25 at F22; Pan Press film; developed in 60A; Velox paper; developed in EK 72
8x10 East View camera; 7 1/2 Proter lens; 1/100 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; F Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
8x10 East View camera; 7 1/2 Proter lens; 1/100 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Velox paper; developed in EK 72
Postcard (PC) #158; 5x7 East View camera; 5 1/4" Ziess; 1/50 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72.
4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/100 at F16; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/100 at F22; K2 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
5x7 F. View; C. Ziess lens; exposure 1/200 at F11; Pan Press film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72; 2 1/2 to 3 counts, F3 paper, F11 stop
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72; one of the images available online.
4x5 SG camera; C. Ziess lens; 1/50 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/10 at F22; A filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; C Ziess lens; 1/100 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/25 at F22; A filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72; 3 1/2 counts, F8 stop, F2 paper
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F11; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/100 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabrom paper; developed in EK 72
On the headwaters of the Sandy river on western slope of Mt. Hood; reproduction is slowly covering the scars of a forest fire which probably raged a half century ago, the result of some carelessly thrown match or unguarded campfire. In recent years the Mt. Hood area has been reasonably free of devastating flames. Mt. Hood, 11,245 feet high, was named in 1792 in honor of Viscount Hood of the English peerage. Oregon State Highway Commision photo by Gifford; 5x7 E. View; Ziess Proter; G filter
4x5 SG camera; EK lens; 1/25 at F16; G filter; SPP film; developed in DK LO; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/25 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; EK lens; 1/25 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; EK lens; 1/25 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
5x7 EV; Ziess Proter; 1/25 at F22; G.1 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72; 16 counts foreground 6 more counts for mountain
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F22; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F16; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/100 at F16; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F22; K2 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72; F11 #3, 6 sec. shade below horizion burn in wave 1 sec.
KA lens; 1/200 at F16; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
5x7 E. View; (?) lens; 1/100 at F16; K filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/100 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/200 at F16; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
5x7 EV camera; Goerz lens; 1/25 at F22; K3 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72; 5 counts F8 no. 2 paper
8x10 EV camera; (?) lens; 1/50 at F22; K3 filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
4x5 SG camera; KA lens; 1/50 at F22; G filter; SPP film; developed in 60A; Kodabromide paper; developed in EK 72
Graphic view; K2 filter; Super pan press film; 1/50 at F16
F8 6 counts; F2 Kodabrom
Vertical view.
View of Mount Bachelor and Broken Top; lake reached by forest road; resort for fishermen and tourists.
Kodabromide F3 6 counts
G-#3 8 sec. dodging corner; 4 sec. ea side top-10 sec sky, F11
5 counts at F8 on Kromide 2; 3 counts more shading bale and more on left
View sets of small prints (approximately 2 x 3 inches) that were sold at souvenir shops throughout the state. Original camera negatives of most of the images are described separately in this series or elsewhere in the collection.
Views depict the State Capitol in Salem, Oregon; fruit tree blossoms near Salem; a rustic bridge at Silver Creek, Oregon; Crater Lake; sunset on the Willamette River; Vista House on the Columbia River; a western sunset on the Oregon coast; and Timberline Lodge at Mt. Hood, Oregon. Includes a set in envelope, uncut 8x10 sheets of miniature views, 8x10 prints of each view, and assembled master copy negative.
Views show Timberline Lodge; apple blossom time; Mt. Hood from the Little Sandy River and Laurel Hill; harvest time in the Hood River Valley; a winter sunset; rhododendrons; and squaw grass on the Wapanita Highway. Includes a set in envelope, 8x10 prints of each view, and assembled master copy negative.
Views of several waterfalls in the park and a rustic bridge over the North Fork of Silver Creek. Includes a set in envelope, uncut 8x10 sheets of miniature views, 8x10 prints of each view, and assembled master copy negative.
Views depict the Administration Building at Willamette University; Post Office; Forestry Building; moat at the Oregon State Penitentiary; Liberty Street in downtown Salem; State Library; State Capitol; and Marion County Courthouse with rhododendrons in the foreground. Includes only the assembled master copy negative and negatives for captions.
Not released.
Horizontal view.
Vertical view.
See also color transparency.
Print is affixed on back of mount for 0952.
See also color transparencies.
no. 2 paper; 7 counts
F3 paper; 4 1/2 counts; fresh developer
This lake is in the Eastern part of the state and is a great haunt for the fisherman. It lies a little south west of Bend, Oregon and is reached by highway called Century Drive out of Bend. F3 paper; 5 counts.
This road is kept open all winter for the pleasure of hundreds of skiers from Portland, Oregon besides the trucks that use the road on their run to Eastern Oregon.
See also image A-503
3 counts give more to foreground; no 2 paper F8 also limbs in upper right
30 counts at F11
See also color transparencies.
Postcard (PC) #184; 3 or 4 counts; F8 2 paper
View similar to image 0777.
Postcard (PC) #180; no. 3 paper; 5 counts overall then 3 more to foreground covering all rest then 5 or 6 more making 10 counts for sky; F11 stop.
Cut out streak across top; 5 counts on bottom 4 more on clouds; no 3 paper
11 or 12 counts foreground 18 clouds; F2 Kodabromide
See also color transparencies.
F2 paper 6 counts
3 counts F8 stop F2 paper
5 counts F8 stop F2 paper
5 counts
4 counts
Similar to State Highway Commission photograph 2228 (Series V).
Stop 8; F2 paper; 3 counts
3 counts; F2 paper; F8 stop
F8 stop; 5 counts all over; F2 paper; 2 or 3 extra on lower corner
7 to 8 counts; F2 paper; F8 stop
3 counts; F2 paper; F8 stop
3 counts; F8
F2 paper; F8 stop; 3 counts
Similar to image 0770; 4 counts
F8-10 sec.; Kodabrom F2
Kodabromide F2; 9 counts; take center of photograph cutting out high foreground
3 counts on sky first then 5 counts overall then cover and give 2 more to immediate foreground; F8 stop; F2 paper
4 counts; F2 paper; F8 stop
Postcard (PC) # 181.
Postcard (PC) #176; 4 counts F2 paper; F8 stop.
See also color transparencies.
F8 new light 4 counts
no. 3 paper; 3 counts in foreground; 5 in sky; F8
Postcard (PC) #163.
Postcard (PC) #162.
A 16x20 using first developer took 12 counts foreground with up to 20 counts for mountain; G 3 paper F11 stop
F11 stop; F2 paper 4 1/2 counts for tree; 7 1/2 counts for rest
F3 paper; 3 1/2 counts; 3 more to top and 3 more to bottom; postcard (PC) #164
One print on display in Archives and Maps Reference Room.
5 or 6 counts over all then give 4 or 5 more to lower left hand corner; F2 paper; F8 stop
Postcard (PC) #151
Postcard (PC) #178.
Postcard (PC) #153.
Postcard (PC) #112.
G3 7 sec. all; F11 3 sec. top postcard negative
Postcard (PC) #165.
Postcard (PC) #107.
Postcard (PC) #91; 2 sec F#2.
Postcard (PC) #96.
Postcard (PC) #101.
Postcard (PC) #102.
Postcard (PC) #93.
Postcard (PC) #100
Hood River flows down in the foreground into the Columbia River, Oregon.
Postcard (PC) #160.
Postcard (PC) #159.
Includes copy negative of Gifford in World War I Navy uniform.
Postcard (PC) #168.
Postcard (PC) #161.
3 counts foreground; 6 counts mountain; F11 stop; F2 paper
Similar to image 0921.
10 counts F11-F2 paper; 13 counts on sky
8 counts F2 paper; F11 stop; little extra for foreground
8 counts F11 stop; F2 paper
9 counts F2; F11 stop
3 counts F2; F11 stop
The last photograph made by Ralph Gifford; postcard (PC) #185; F11 stop; F3 paper; 5 counts develope 60 counts.
3 1/2 counts; F11; F3 paper
Postcard (PC) #186.
One of Ralph Gifford's last photographs of people.
Mounted with image 0709 mounted on the back.
Series V consists of photographs made for the Oregon State Highway Commission by Gifford. Several of the photographs may have been made by Cecil V. Ager of LaGrande, Oregon. The images depict views of the Oregon Coast, Wallowa Mountains, Rogue River, Columbia Gorge, Imnaha Canyon, highways and bridges, and strawberry pickers. Similar views of many of the images are part of Series IV.
Also numbered 1067.
Includes Face Rock.
The Imnaha River of northeastern Oregon, in flowing to the Snake River has cut a deep canyon which takes its name from the river responsible for its creation. The Imnaha Canyon is a part of the Wallowa Wonderland which attracts vacationists to regions of unusual scenic allure and unlimited recreational resources.
Similar to image 0754 (Series IV).
Series VI consists of postcard prints of Oregon scenes produced by Gifford for sale. The series includes primarily postcard prints and 5x7 copy negatives; several larger prints without captions are also included. The images depict waterfalls and other features at Silver Falls State Park; the Wallowa Mountains and Wallowa Valley; the Oregon Capitol building; and the Crooked River Gorge. Other postcards prints are part of Series V.
1 1/2 sec.
2 sec?
(2 sec?); prints include 2 images of Middle Falls and 1 image of a different waterfall
1 sec
1 sec
2 sec
2 1/2 sec
1 1/2 sec [minus]
1 1/2 sec
2 1/2 sec
4 sec; sent to Kyle Smith in Tacoma, Washington, on June 20, 1951.
Album of 3.5x4.5 prints. Includes images of the State Capitol Building in Salem, Oregon; Vista House and the Columbia River Gorge; sunset from Corwn Point on the Columbia River Highway; Timberline Lodge at Mt. Hood, Oregon; blossom time in the Hood River Valley; a western sunset on the Oregon coast; fishing boats in Depoe Bay on the Oregon coast; the Crooked River Gorge near Bend; and Wizard Island and Phantom Ship at Crater Lake, Oregon.
Series VII consists of photographs of bridges along Highway 101 on the Oregon coast that were designed by Conde McCullough. All of the images are 8x10 film negatives; the series includes a print of only one image. Several of the negatives have a diacetate base that is shrinking or exhibiting other deterioration; these negatives have been separated and are stored separately.
Series VIII consists of photographs made by Gifford throughout Oregon during the 1930s and 1940s that were not assigned individual item numbers. Many of the images are of Oregon landmarks and scenes that are also depicted in other series. The series includes views of the Oregon Coast; Mount Hood and other Cascade Mountain peaks; Crater Lake; Oregon Caves; Silver Falls State Park; the Oregon State Capitol and other Salem, Oregon, scenes; and sport fishing. Of special note are images of the Pendleton Round-Up, including photographs of Native Americans participating in Round-Up activities. The series includes 4x5, 5x7 and 8x10 camera negatives, many of which do not have accompanying prints, as well as prints with no accompanying negatives.
Photograph of drawing by Oregon State Highway Commission engineer and images of models.
Nine different views.
See also color transparencies.
One image available online.
State Highway Commission photo.
Near Florence?
Include Native American in traditional costumes, rodeo events, and other activities.
Snow clearing on mountain roads.
One of the images is Oregon Highway Division #6485.
State office complex in Salem?
Four views of foot bridges and picnic shelters.
Numbered 8-12, 8-14, 8-16, & 8-20
Two military officers and a civilian.
Oregon State Highway Commission photograph.
Caldera rim; Phantom Ship; boats in the lake; Wizard Island.
2 views
Print is labeled #1144; framed oversize print on exhibit.
Includes photographs of a mountain climber.
Series IX consists of color transparencies of various Oregon scenes; many of the views are similar to black-and-white images in other series. Subjects include Mount Hood and other Cascade Mountain peaks; Crater Lake; the Oregon Coast; the Wallowa Mountains; the Columbia River Gorge; and the Oregon State Capitol and other buildings in Salem. Of special note is an image of Chief Clarence Burke. Many of the images are available online. Most of the transparencies are 4x5 inches; however there are several 5x7 and 8x10 transparencies included. Two of the 4x5 transparencies are mounted in glass. A color print of one of the images is included.
See also image 0763 in Series IV.
See also images 0794 and 0848 in Series IV.
See also image 0704 in Series IV.
One of the images is numbered 2469; this image is available online.
See also image 0837 in Series IV.
See also image 0722 in Series IV.
At the Pendleton Round-Up?
See also postcards (PC) #191 and #192 in Series VI.
See also postcard (PC) #189 in Series VI.
See also image 0792 in Series IV.
The Queer Studies Program Records is a small but growing collection which contains a broad range of materials documenting the program’s founding and development. The records consist of course-related and promotional materials; creative work produced by queer studies students; press coverage of the program and its faculty; and programs, handouts, and posters for both on- and off-campus events centering on LGBT or queer topics.
OSU Queer Studies Program Files consist of course-related and promotional materials; creative work produced by queer studies students; press coverage of the program and its faculty; and programs, handouts, and posters for both on- and off-campus events centering on LGBT or queer topics.
Course materials included in the collection include syllabi for classes such as Introduction to Queer Studies, Indigenous Queer & Two-Spirit Studies, Queer of Color Critiques, and Trans/Gender Politics. Also included in this folder are a sampling of lesson plans and course assignments, as well as the drafted proposal for the creation of the queer studies minor at Oregon State. Promotional materials in the OSU Queer Studies Program Records consist mainly of full-color flyers, dating back to 2013, which were posted around campus to promote and encourage enrollment in various queer studies courses each term. Student-produced work included in the records consists of three unique and separate ‘zines created as part of class projects for Arts & Social Justice, Queer & Trans People of Color Arts & Activism, and as part of a Queer Indigenous Gathering at Portland State University. Press coverage in the records includes articles from the Corvallis Gazette-Times, the Daily Barometer, and Beaver’s Digest. Of particular note in this folder is an article in the Gazette-Times which documents Dr. Qwo-Li Driskill’s work in launching the queer studies degree program. Event programs and handouts document a variety of events both on- and off-campus. Highlights of this grouping include performances and workshops by OSU queer studies faculty, and booklets for the Lavender Celebration (OSU’s LGBTQ+ graduation and award ceremony). Finally, the on-campus event posters included in this collection consist primarily of events concerning queer and trans lives, and/or featuring prominent figures in the LGBTQ+ community. A majority of these events are also explicitly considering the intersection of queer identity and race, with posters for events like “Queering el Día de los Muertos,” and flyers advertising visits to OSU by Cherríe Moraga, Deborah A. Miranda, Daniel Heath Justice, and other queer scholars, artists, and activists of color.
The United States War Relocation Authority Reports are comprised of four sets of mimeographed reports: Community Analysis Reports, Community Analysis Notes, a Project Analysis Series, and Quarterly and Semi-Annual Reports. Series 1 through 3 were produced by the War Relocation Authority's (WRA) Community Analysis Section (CAS). CAS was predominately staffed by sociologists and anthropologists who studied the concentration camps and their incarcerees. Topics reflect the interests of CAS and include topics such as incarceree daily life in the camps including forced participation in WRA programs, forced assimilation, and resistance to WRA activities; forced removal; and white American attitudes toward incarcerees. Also included are detailed reports on logistical issues, facilities concerns, and adverse living conditions at individual concentration camps.
Series 4 is comprised of bound reports created by the WRA to document its activities at a high level. These reports include budgetary data, information about concentration camp organization and operation, reports on incarcerees' daily life in the campus and population data, among other topics. Many of these reports are supplemented with maps, organizational charts, and other data visualizations.
The contents of Series 1, Series 2, Series 3, and Series 4 have been digitized and are available upon request.
Series 1 is comprised of 19 Community Analysis Reports generated by the WRA's Community Analysis Section (CAS) between 1942 and 1946. The series is comprised of reports on a broad set of issues facing the incarcerees and concentration camp administrators. Topics include cultural activities, religion, education, labor, assimilation, unrest in the centers, and reintegration (including analysis of community attitudes in California and Hood River, Oregon). The authors of the reports are largely anonymous, though the first two reports are attributed to anthropologist John F. Embree. The series also includes a six-part annotated bibliography of CAS reports.
Reports 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, and 12 include cover letters authored by Dillon S. Myer, Director of the WRA. Report 7 includes a cover letter from Leland Barrows, Acting Director. A stamp on Report 11 indicates it was circulated to the Heart Mountain War Relocation Center.
This series has been digitized and is available upon request.
Series 2 is composed of 14 "notes" published by the Community Analysis Section (CAS) between 1944 and 1945. The notes are short reports on subjects including marriage customs, healing practices, and “block” self-governance within the concentration camps. The notes series includes several reports documenting interviews with incarcerees. It also includes a series of reports on areas within the exclusion zone including Fresno County, Imperial Valley, the San Francisco Bay Area, and San Joaquin County.
This series has been digitized and is available upon request.
Series 3 is comprised of 23 Project Analysis Series reports produced by the Community Analysis Section. Topics include registration processes, security, resettlement, social structures, linguistics, and incidents of resistance in the concentration camps. Report 21 is attributed to Margaret L. Latnis. Reports 23 and 24 are attributed to G. Gordon Brown and J. Ralph McFaring, respectively. Report 7 was circulated to the Poston War Relocation Center and Report 21 was received by the Heart Mountain War Relocation Center.
This series also includes a memorandum to the head project director concerning the Project Analysis Series.
The materials in this series have been digitized and are available upon request.
Series 4 is comprised of 10 bound quarterly and semi-annual reports documenting the activities of the War Relocation Authority from its genesis in 1942 to its dissolution in 1946. The reports include information on the WRA's work and educational programs, camp organization and operation, activities and behavior of incarcerees, population data, property issues, unrest, and camp management, among other topics. The reports also include organizational charts, timelines, maps, graphs, and data tables detailing the work of the WRA. The first two reports in this series also include manuscript annotations.
The materials in this series have been digitized and are available upon request.
The Wanda Gifford Photographs were taken by Wanda Gifford during the late 1940s and 1950s and document the changing face of post-war Salem, Oregon; agriculture in the Willamette Valley; and scenic views of Oregon landmarks, Mount Baker and the northern Cascades in Washington, and Glacier National Park in Montana. The collection also includes images of family and friends and portrait photographs of individuals, family groups, and special occasions such as weddings and anniversaries. Children were one of Wanda Gifford's favorite subjects. Numerous images of snow scenes in the Willamette Valley are included in the collection.
Oregon landmarks that are depicted in the collection include Mount Hood, the Oregon Coast, Multnomah Falls, the Wallowa Mountains, and Steens Mountain. Agricultural images include orchards, strawberry fields, dairy herds, and other livestock. Of special note are numerous images of Mary Kueny and the Kueny Ranch in southeastern Oregon near Steens Mountain. Photographs of the Detroit Dam are also included.
The images of Salem, Oregon, include the original Marion County Courthouse, the Oregon State Capitol and other state buildings, churches, businesses and street scenes, schools, and homes. The courthouse photographs include interior and exterior views and images of offices and workers in the building.
The majority of items in the collection are 4x5 and 120 format film negatives; accompanying prints are included for about a third of the negatives. There are only a few prints without accompanying film negatives. A small percentage of the 4x5 negatives are diacetate-based that are degraded and in poor condition; these are housed separately. The collection also includes 96 color transparencies, primarily 4x5 format. Some of the color transparencies were probably made by Ben L. Gifford.
A selection of images from the collection are available online in The Best of the Archives and other digital collections.
Series I comprises most of the Wanda Gifford Photographs and consists of images made by Wanda Gifford in the late 1940s through mid-1950s. The photographs depict Salem, Oregon, in the post-war years; agriculture, especially in the Willamette Valley; children and families; Oregon scenes, especially Mount Hood and the Oregon coast; the Steens Mountains; North Cascades; Glacier National Park; and the Grand Tetons. Agricultural images include orchards, strawberry fields, dairy herds, and other livestock. Of special note are numerous images of the Kueny Ranch in southeastern Oregon and Mary Kueny. Most of the negatives are 4x5 and 120 format; several of the 4x5 negatives are diacetate-based that are in poor condition.
time 1/100 at F16; telephoto lens
Telephoto lens; time 1/25 at F11; graphic view.
lens curl lies back lighting; 1/100 at F5.6; exposed for shadow; 4:30 pm; tripod used; g. view
Best negative.
speed graphic 1/100 between F8 and 11; cloudy day; aktar lens; 127 mm; S pan press D 60A
Taken late afternoon;g. view on tripod; K1 filter.
graphic; 1/100 F11; K1 filter and lens shade; bright day-blue sky-clouds
graphic; 1/100 at F16; filter K1-shade on lens; bright day afternoon early
graphic; filter; lens shaded; 1/100 F11
graphic; 1/100 at F11
Plowing young walnut orchard with Gibson tractor.
1/10 sec at F8
6 counts
1/10 sec at F8
6 counts on cykora; shade right baby side; give hall on right extra
12 counts with cykora no. 3 give 3 extra to cake
1 and 2+ counts; late evening 1 flush; 1/100 F 5.6
5 counts; barn house silhouette
gray day; desolation; 4 to 6 counts; F3 paper; print in clouds
print in sky and foreground; about 4 to 6 counts for center
S. graphic; set film speed at 50 used K3 filter; took brightness reading; shot at 1/50 at F16
S. graphic; set film speed at 50 used K3 filter; took brightness reading; shot at 1/50 at F16
6 counts
9 counts for bath negatives no. 2 paper F5.6
6 counts; F3
6 counts
Mounted print on verso of image 0784.
speed graphic light reading; taken on grass in sunlight; set C position in reading Reading 1 block above 25; 1/100 at F 4.7 back lighting
10 counts at F8 and one inch and 10 counts at F6.3; lights over exposed
1/100 at F16; SP graphic; little under timed
1/200 at F16; 10 ft. GE no 5
1/100 at F16; 10 ft.; too much exposure; Anna 1/200, better exposure 10 ft.; long shot; little under at 1/100 at F 16
1/100 at F11; late evening light
1/50 at F16 with 1 no 5 GE about 15 ft from ?
shot all at 100 at F8; shot one showing bridge end at 1/50 at F 6.3; had K2 filter on end shots
1 flush then 3 counts; F 11 shade over art while country 3
1/100 at F8; bright clear day, cold; speed graphic
Sp. graphic; 5 counts overall; barn in foreground; 1/50 at F16; 2 no. 22 GE bulbs; me at camera in a 20 ft extension to right; walls cream, large room; about 25 ft from nearest ?
5 counts over all then a box of burning in Edma (?) and (?) also on desk in corner
3 counts
1/100 at F8; speed graphic
1/100 at F16 K2 filter speed graphic
S. graphic; 1/100 at F11; no filter; about 3:30 pm
1/101 at F8; late light; no filter print
1/100 at F11; taken S. graphic about 2:30 pm, print 3 1/2 counts
Taken about 11:30 am.
1/100 at F16; about 10 ft away
1/100 at F22
1/200 at F22; standing on head
flash; 1/200 at between 22-32; speed graphic; s. pan press
1/100 at F22
flash; 1/200 at 22-32; speed graphic; s. pan press
can use portion for Christmas card
See also color transparencies.
Speed Graphic; K1 filter; 1/100 F16; Super Pan Press film developed in D 60 A
Graphic Speed; K1 filter 1/100 at F11; Super Pan Press; D 60A development 6 min.; printed on Kodabromide No 3
s. graphic; 1/100 at F16; about 8 am, February 7, 1949; s. pan press; RK60A K2 filter; D72?
s.p. graphic; 1/100 at F16; 8 am, February 7, 1949; K2 filter
Use cloud effect on other negs.
1/200 at F32; under exposed bad shadow; not good
1 sec. at F32; flood lights 1 no 4 in corner to left; 1 ssp on floor; one no 2 flood on floor
8 counts for lights in lamps; 30 counts while painting in; F 32 stop wide angle lens; used 1 no 2 flood to paint; find shot painted; no lights in lamps
1/100 F22; s.p.; s. pan press; flash at camera; 4 counts F8 K3
1/25 at F8; photo floods
flash; 1/50 at F16
1/100 at F11
1/100 at F11
1/100 at F11
F11 at 1/100 sec.
Slightly out of focus.
held camera against tree; stopped down; 3 counts
3 counts foreground 6-sky
Photocopy of one of the images in a newspaper clipping.
3+ counts; burn foot and white dress in
I: about 10ft from camera; 1 flash to right on on camera diffused; II: on flash only not diffused dark shadow under border; sp graphic views
3 counts; burn in boy's face; 1/50 at F16 sp. press, no 25 wabash
1/50 at F8; 1 flash at camera
1/50 F11
shot at 1/5 at F16; straight 4 &frac12; counts F8
burn in top; burn in man and foreground; shade the center; 4 counts for center as it is shaded; 1/50 F11 about 25 ft away
4 counts overall shading upper part all time (?) (?) on (?); 2 extra counts for foreground only; 2 extra counts for head only; 1/50 F11 25 ft away
F32; painting; 45 counts for lights overhead; wide angle lens
1/25 at F22; nice day; s.p. press; view camera; K1 filter
Both images available online; view 1; view 2; 4 counts foreground; 3 more sky; no 2 paper
4 counts foreground 2 more sky
4 counts F8
6 counts
Three of the images available online: bottom close-up; top close-up; full view
s.p. press; s.p. graphic; distance 15 ft; 1/100 at F11
electric eye opens doors; 1/100 at F8; dark day
s.p. graphic; 1/100 F11
One view has telephone pole in frame.
print on no 2 paper 5 to 6 counts
Left to right: Walter Zozel, Mrs. Rhodes, Mr. C.E. Rhodes, Mrs. Matt Vetch, Matt Vetch, and George Arbuckle.
1/100 at F16; s.g.
Ensilage cutters at work; send to Life magazine.
North Santiam River (370a); Detroit Dam construction (370b)
Breitenbush bridge (371a); Guests at Santiam Highway dedication (371b)
night shot; 22 bulb used.
no. 3 paper
4 counts foreground; 3 extra sky; F8 no 2 paper
4 counts foreground 10 sky
6 counts 14 sky
3 counts foreground up to 35
5F counts no 3 paper
1/100 F16; no 3 paper F8 3+counts
use part of negative
no. 2 paper
Alta fescue on Norman Reiling's farm; Alta fescue on Norman Reiling's farm (close); Norman Reiling looking at his alta fescue field; Alta fescue on Norman Reiling's farm; Norman Reiling with alta fescue plants; Norman Reiling with alta fescue plants; Norman Reiling with alta fescue plants
Norman Reiling's son with bike; Norman Reiling's daughter with bike; Norman Reiling's daughter with dog; Norman Reiling's daughter with dog; Norman Reiling's daughters with dog
flash shot
Similar to image 0472.
3 views
Girl leading cow into ring (527a); Girl showing her Jersey dairy cow (527b); Showing Jersey cows at Oregon State Fair (527c)
early morning light; 1/100 at F11; K2 filter
2 views; 1/25 at F11; cloudy day
Highway 22; Highway 22 (557c); Detroit, Oregon (557e); Detroit Dam construction site (557f); Detroit Dam construction site (557i); Detroit Dam construction site (557j); Highway 22 (557t)
Camera Rollicord; K2 filter; Super XX film; Developed in Microdol; Print Kodabromide F3; Exposure 1/100 at F11
camera Rollicord; film Super XX; Time about 8 am; K2 filter; 1/100 at F11
See also image 0583.
Similar to image 0569.
Close-up.
Good shot well framed road; similar to image 0691.
Similar to image 0660.
See also color transparencies.
Possibly same farm as image 0823.
Good print.
Similar to image 0961.
3 paper; 10 to 12 counts
Ben negative; image taken by Ben L. Gifford (?).
See also color transparencies.
See also color transparencies.
See also color transparencies.
Telephoto.
Vertical view.
See also color transparencies.
Telephoto.
Vertical view.
Includes view (1022-J) of a dam under construction.
Touring by car through the beautiful Hood River Valley in spring with the orchards in bloom; Mt. Adams in background.
6 overall F8 burn in table and foreground 2
Similar to image 1076.
Copy negatives of photograph taken by Benjamin A. Gifford.
Copy negative of photograph taken by Benjamin A. Gifford.
Mary Kueny negative.
Cloud negative used with this.
7 counts 10 m foreground 20 for sky
7 counts; 2 paper
The photographer was standing on the edge of the dam near the head gates of the flume when this picture was taken; the lake is well stocked with trout and is a mecca for Southern Oregon fishermen. 1/25 at F22; K2 filter.
Upper view of irrigation flume showing where Armco pipe has been used around a hill side to maintain the proper water level for the flume; this irrigation ditch or flume is high in the Cascade range, heading in Four Mile Lake from where the water is conveyed down to the Medford Valley, Oregon for irrigation purposes.
This stretch of flume made with Armco pipe is a link in a long irrigation ditch which heads in 4 Mile Lake high in the Cascade Mountains and runs down into the Valley around Medford, Oregon for irrigation purposes. Part of the flume is formed along the hill sides by excavating the dirt and using the earth from the ditch for a very narrow road to travel in the maintenance of this long flume. Hundreds of fishermen also travel this dike formed road to reach 4 Mile Lake which is amply stocked with trout.
Includes images of worship services and classes.
6 counts burn in faces; F8 no. 2 paper
5 counts; F8; burn in faces
burn in faces; 5 counts
See also color transparencies.
See also color transparencies.
See also color transparencies.
See also color transparencies.
F22 at 1/25; no. 2 paper; K2 filter
F22 at 1/25; K2 filter; speed graphic; s.p.p
See also color transparencies.
One view using telephoto lens.
2 views
View of cattle not taken in Steens.
Kueny House (1235.2); Mary Kueny (1234.6)
Includes image of Mary Kueny watching two men shearing sheep.
2 Rolli shots
6 to 9 counts F11; bad negative
good negative
Includes images of mountains and lakes; farm scenes; timber carnival; and camping.
Elwood enlarger; no 3 paper; 3 1/2 counts foreground, 5 to 6 for mountain, 8 sky
Photographs submitted with article written by Wanda Gifford for Flower Grower on growing rhododendron from seed. Includes images of newly sprouted rhododendron seeds; flatted seedlings; a covered bench for sprouting seed; and Mr. Henry's greenhouse with flats of various rhododendrons. Typescript of article also included.
Series II consists of images made by Wanda Gifford, primarily in the 1950s, that were not assigned individual numbers. The images depict similar subjects as Series I with a predominance of photographs of Salem, Oregon; the original Marion County Courthouse; churches in Salem; and family group portraits and wedding photographs. The courthouse photographs include interior and exterior views and images of offices and workers in the building. The series includes images of the construction of Detroit Dam and agriculture, especially in the Willamette Valley. Most of the items in the series are 4x5 and 120 format negatives without accompanying prints. Some of the 4x5 negatives are diacetate-based that are degraded and in poor condition. A small number (less than 50) prints do not have accompanying negatives.
Three views of family and three of baby.
no. 2202; print diagonally
no. 2205
no. 6214
no. 6213
no. 1328
Setting type and other views.
no. 1330
no. 6201
1/50 at F16; 2 counts; 30 sky; Ansev Ardura K. double weight; side view; 3 and 100 for sky
good; dark foreground
Rolli shots
Thousands of Salem and Marion County folks have climbed these stairs in the last 75 years, since the Marion County Court House was built in 1873. Ruler shows how they are are worn and the square nails are protruding in places. Plans are in the making for a new building unless scarcity of materials prevent.
G filter
View of construction.
Rolli negatives
Deputies must climb the ladders to reach the large volumes stored in the crowded vault of the Recorder's Office at the Marion County Courthouse in Salem. From left to right: Romona Evans, Salem; Virginia Gritton, Salem; and Irene Johnson, Salem.
print on no. 2 paper
Includes image of entrance garden gate and garden views. See also color transparencies.
Mr. Lester Erb of Albany proudly models his Junior Champion Female, Erb Farms Petunia, at the Guernsey Spring Show held at the Fairgrounds, Saturday May 21. This same animal won first prize senior calf last year and this year she took first prize senior yearling and Junior Champion.
Includes Unique Cleaners, H&H Furniture Company, and Stone Piano Company.
Series III consists of positive color transparencies made by Wanda Gifford; several of the images were probably taken by her son, Ben L. Gifford. The images depict landmarks in Salem, Oregon, such as the capitol, courthouse, and state buildings; farms, orchards, and gardens; and Oregon scenic views. The Oregon scenes include Multnomah Falls, Mt. Hood, Three Sisters, the Wallowa Mountains, the Oregon coast, and the John Day fossil beds area. The series also includes color images of Mt. Baker, Glacier National Park, and the Canadian Rockies. Most of the transparencies are 4x5 format; only a few (5) are 5x7 format.
See also image 0157 in Series I.
See also prints in Series II.
Includes image of child eating apple.
See also image 1198 in Series I.
Probably taken by Ben L. Gifford; see also images 9I-8 and 9I-9 in the Ben L. Gifford Photographs (P 218-SG 5).
Probably taken by Ben L. Gifford; see also image 11K-8 in the Ben L. Gifford Photographs (P 218-SG 5).
#1414
See also images 1169, 1172, 1175, and 1178 in Series I.
Labeled #2083.
Labeled #2088.
See also image 0991 in Series I.
See also image 0989 in Series I.
See also image 0994 in Series I.
See also images 1006-1007 and 1009 in Series I.
See also image 0759 in Series I.
The Oregon State Highway Maps consist primarily of the official highway map produced annually by the Oregon State Highway Department from the late 1910s through early 1990s. The collection also includes road and recreation maps produced by the U.S. Forest Service in the 1920s-1930s and several commercial highway maps.
Highway maps produced annually by the Oregon State Highway Department are included for almost all years between 1918 and 1991; maps for 1918-1942, 1945, 1948-1977, 1979-1986, and 1991 are part of the collection. Two of the commercial highway maps also include Washington. All of the maps are at a small scale (approximately 1 inch = 15 miles) in order to depict the entire state on one sheet. The more recent maps include maps of cities and towns. Many of the maps have linen backing that obscures text on the verso. Some of the state highway maps are photocopies. Duplicate copies of some maps are part of the collection.
In addition to showing federal and state highways in Oregon, the maps depict municipalities; predominant land features, such as rivers, lakes, and mountain ranges; state boundaries; populations of cities; mileage between towns and junctions; and National Parks, State Parks, and wildlife refuge locations. The maps also note locations of airports, roadside rest areas, fish hatcheries, lighthouses, county seats, and winter sport areas. Many of the maps also include tourist information for travelers, crucial State Laws pertaining to automobiles and drivers, and mileage tables for calculating trip distances.
Official highway maps published by the State Highway Department are available online in the Oregon Maps digital collection.
Series I includes maps published in 1920, 1923, 1927, and 1930 by the U.S. Forest Service. The maps depict highways as well as national forests and parks in Oregon. Linen backing obscures text on the verso of the sheets.
Series II consists of the official automobile road map and main traveled roads for Oregon. Maps are included for 1918-1942, 1945, and 1948-1953.
Series III is a continuation of the road maps that comprise Series II. Maps are included for 1954-1977, 1979-1986, and 1991.
Series IV consists of commercially produced highway maps, primarily sold at gas stations. The series includes maps published by Shell Gas & Power, Richfield Credit Card, Big Sky Maps, and A Travel Vision. Two of these maps also include Washington.
The Chih H. Wang Papers consist of materials generated and assembled by Wang, a faculty member of the OSU Chemistry Department, Head of the OSU Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering, and Director of the OSU Radiation Center, between 1947 and 1984. The collection includes professional correspondence with researchers, corporate partners, colleagues in Taiwan, and OSU administrators. The collection also includes records of research conducted by the OSU Chemistry Department and at the OSU Radiation Center in cooperation with the Atomic Energy Commission, the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Navy, Exxon, DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency), the U.S. Air Force, and others; correspondence and administrative files from workshops, conferences, and training programs including the Academic Year Institute in Nuclear Science and a multi-year training program for employees of the Taiwan Power Company (TaiPower); and records of the founding, growth, and operation of the OSU Radiation Center.
The collection also includes abstracts and offprints of publications by Wang in the fields of chemistry, biochemistry, and radiation sciences and includes research into the biochemistry of microorganisms, the effects of inorganic compounds of biological systems, the development of nuclear power, and nuclear technology instruction. Many of these publications were co-authored with other Oregon State University faculty, including Bert E. Christensen, Vernon H. Cheldelin, Donald J. Reed, and Frank N. Dost. Additionally, the collection contains subject files assembled by Wang relating to chemistry and biochemistry, radiation sciences, and nuclear power policy and legislation.
Series I is composed of correspondence between Chih Wang and colleagues, researchers, OSU administrators, trainees, politicians, and other individuals associated with the field of nuclear engineering. The majority of materials in this series relates to Wang's duties as director of the OSU Radiation Center and includes correspondence regarding research conducted at the Radiation Center, training and education in the nuclear sciences, scientific equipment and instrumentation, funding for Radiation Center activities, and intra-university administrative procedures. The series includes correspondence regarding participation in professional organizations such as Atomic Industrial Forum, Inc.; collaboration with corporate partners including the Eugene Water & Electric board and the Jersey Nuclear Company in site studies, nuclear power research and policy efforts, and training and conference activities; and the purchase of goods and services provided by Atomic Industries, Wah Chang, and other organizations. This series also contains a group of English and Chinese-language materials concerning Chih H. Wang's professional relationship with individuals involved in nuclear science and engineering research in Taiwan including members of the Taiwan Power Company (TaiPower), National Taiwan University, and the Chinese government in Taiwan.
Series II is comprised of proposals, contracts, reports, research materials, budgetary documents, and correspondence relating to research projects conducted by the OSU Department of Chemistry and, later, the OSU Radiation Center on behalf of the Defense Advanced Research Programs Agency (DARPA), Exxon, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), the U.S. Air Force, the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), the U.S. Navy, and other organizations. Topics addressed in the series include recovery of uranium from seawater, studies of missile pollution, and application of radiotracers. Also included in this series are materials related to grant funding for technical improvements to the OSU Radiation Center.
This series is composed of materials related to training programs, workshops, and conferences conducted by the OSU Radiation Center and the Institute of Nuclear Science and Engineering between 1962 and 1981. Included are proposals, contracts, reports, budgetary documents, promotional materials, participant evaluations, exams and coursework, course readings, and other administrative documentation, including some content duplicated on film transparencies. Programs represented in this series include the Academic Year Institute in Nuclear Science for College Teachers in Biological Science which offered instruction for biologists undertaking teaching and research in nuclear and radiation sciences; the Summer Workshop on Energy Resources and Electric Power Generation, a program designed to instruct high school educators on the scientific and technical facets of power generation; and a special, annual program to provide technical training in nuclear power generation for employees of TaiPower, Taiwan's state-owned electric power utility. This series also contains records of theses and dissertations overseen by Wang during his tenure at OSU.
Series IV is composed of materials relating to the creation and operation of the OSU Radiation Center between 1960 and 1984. Materials include administrative reports, a procedural manual, a hazard analysis report, budgetary records, research and proposals relating to the Radiation Center facilities, records of tours, site visits, and inspections, classified document handling records and regulations, and questionnaires relating to nuclear science and engineering. Some materials in Series IV predate but relate to the Radiation Center mission and activities.
Series V contains reprints and abstracts of publications authored by Chih H. Wang during his tenure with the OSU Chemistry Department and the Radiation Center. Topics include organic chemistry, biochemistry, radiochemistry, radiation physics, nuclear engineering, and education. Many of the papers in this series were coauthored with members of the OSU faculty--especially Bert E. Christensen, Vernon H. Cheldelin, Donald J. Reed, and Frank N. Dost. Topics include "The Influence of Molybdates on the Hydrogen and Peroxide Oxidation of Naphthalene and Beta-Naphthol," "Coordinated Design of Radioisotope Laboratories, and "Studies on Environmental Pollution by Missile Propellants."
Series VI is comprised of subject files assembled by Chih Wang. Included in the series are scientific offprints, promotional materials, reports, newsclippings, notes, and a small amount of correspondence. Topics include biochemical experiment design and techniques, microorganism behavior and functions, biological systems, radiation physics and uranium recovery, and public opinion and legislation regarding nuclear power in California, Oregon, and Washington. The series also contains materials, including a full script, related to the 1977 television movie Red Alert and correspondence regarding Energy Resources--How Much, How Soon, a film comprised of highlights from a 1975 conference at OSU.
The Disability Access Services Records primarily contain annual reports and memoranda discussing accessibility on the Oregon State University campus and funding for services and programs. The collection also contains scrapbooks documenting the student organizations, Handicapped Students Unlimited and the Disabled Students Organizations, through newspaper clippings, advertisements, and photographs.
Series one contains annual reports, statistics, and memoranda discussing funding and grant proposals for the Services for Students with Disabilities office. The second series focuses on policies affecting students with disabilities on campus, including discrimination, classroom accessibility, and services for students with learning disabilities.
Series three contains memoranda, student handbooks, and staff guides discussing building accessibility and services provided by the Services for Students with Disabilities office. Series 4 focuses on student organizations and programs, including the Program for Learning Disabilities, Services for Students with Disabilities, and the Disabled Students Organization. The series primarily contains memoranda, articles, and two scrapbooks documenting student organization activities. A series of posters promoting the Disability Accessibility Services office are also included.
Series 1 contains primarily annual reports and statistics for the Services for Students with Disabilities Program. Memoranda discusses grant proposals and funding for programs and services.
Series 2 contains primarily memoranda and correspondence discussing policies affecting students with disabilities on campus, including admission procedures, classroom accessibility, and services for students with learning disabilities. Additional topics include nondiscrimination policies, honor roll recognition, and concerns regarding a policy restricting disabled students to one service per course.
Series 3 focuses on services provided regarding accessibility, priority registration, and alternative testing sites for students with learning disabilities. The series also contains staff guides and student handbooks containing floor plans for campus buildings and accessibility resources.
Series 4 focuses on programs and student organizations on campus, including the Program for Learning Disabilities, Services for Students with Disabilities, and the Disabled Students Organization. Two scrapbooks containing primarily newspaper clippings and photographs document activities of the Disabled Students Organization and Handicapped Students Unlimited. A series of posters promoting the Disability Accessibility Services office are also included.
30 prints
40 prints, 14 negatives, and a contact sheet.
The Marie Norris Collection documents Norris' life and work as a Native American activist, storyteller, and historian and consists of materials created by Norris and assembled by Roger Weaver. The Collection includes two versions of the manuscript Along Klamath Waters, a letter, newspaper clippings, publications, and a sound recording. The manuscript is an autobiographical narrative prepared by Norris for publication as a book. Norris describes her life as a member of the Klamath community in southern Oregon and interweaves stories of Klamath culture and history throughout the narrative. A primary topic of the manuscript is the termination of the Klamath Tribe in the 1950s and the impact on the culture, economy, and lands of the Klamath peoples. Both versions were edited by Roger Weaver. The 1979 version of the manuscript is unabridged; the 1980 version is an abridged version edited for submission to a publisher. It was not published.
The letter was written from Norris to Roger Weaver in February 1980; Norris writes about her family, provides an update on her health, and discusses her book. The collection also includes a journal article written by Roger Weaver about Norris' interpretation of Klamath chants and a biographical sketch of Norris in Notable Women in the History of Oregon. The audiocassette is a sound recording, On Klamath Life & Singing in Klamath, that includes a 1974 interview between Roger Weaver and Marie Norris. The sound recording has been digitized and is available in two parts: Part 1 (about 40 minutes) and Part 2 (about 45 minutes).
The Staff Newsletter consists of the weekly publication for Oregon State University faculty and staff written, edited, and produced by News and Communications Services (and previously the Department of Information). The newsletter was published weekly during the academic year resulting in about 35 issues per year. Beginning in 1993, a summer edition was published monthly.
The Staff Newsletter launched in September 1961 and the first issue welcomed new Oregon State University President James Jensen. The title was changed to OSU This Week in 1987. In 1994, the publication format changed to tabloid-size printed on newsprint. In 2008, OSU This Week ceased publication and LIFE@OSU, which featured lengthier stories on the people and programs of Oregon State, was produced in print twice per month with an accompanying website. LIFE@OSU ceased publication with the August 13, 2009 issue.
While the content and format of the Staff Newsletter evolved during its nearly 50-year run, the function remained constant – to provide news and announcements to all employees of Oregon State University. To that end, the newsletter included announcements and news of campus-wide interest; reports regarding budgets, new academic programs, gifts and grants received, and other campus programs and activities; a calendar of campus events; and announcements of new administrators and faculty. Information about campus buildings and infrastructure, including new construction and major remodels was included. Notices of retirements, deaths, honors and appointments were often published. With time, more feature stories about Oregon State faculty and staff were published. The annual statewide food drive (in February) and charitable fund drive (in November-December) are prominent in the newsletter at those times of the year.
The Faculty Senate Minutes were distributed as an appendix to the Staff Newsletter in the 1960s and 1970s and are included in this collection for the 1969-1970 through 1973-1974 academic years.
Annual indexes for the staff newsletter are available for the 1961-1962 through 1973-1974 academic years, bound with the issues for each year.
Most of the issues of OSU This Week and OSU This Summer are available online in Oregon Digital.
Series 1 consists of the weekly Staff Newsletter for employees of Oregon State University. The Newsletter was published weekly during the academic year and approximately 35 issues were published in the volume for each academic year. The Staff Newsletter included announcements and news of campus-wide interest; reports regarding budgets, academic programs, gifts and grants received, and other campus programs and activities; a calendar of campus events; and announcements of new faculty and administrators. This series includes bound volumes (with an index for the issues in that volume) for 1961-1962 thru 1973-1974 as well as some individual (unbound) issues for those years. The Faculty Senate minutes were distributed as an appendix to the Staff Newsletter and are included in this series for the 1969-1970 academic year (volume 9) through 1973-1974 (volume 13). Only one issue of the Staff Newsletter from the academic years 1974-1975, 1975-1976, and 1976-1977 is available in this series. Those issues are available in the History of OSU book collection.
Bound volume; includes index for this volume.
Bound volume; includes index for this volume.
Bound volume. Includes an index for this volume and an addendum about the 1963 tax referral published by the OSU Federation.
Bound volume includes index for this year.
Bound volume includes index for this year.
Bound volume with index for this year.
Bound volume with index for this year.
Bound volume with index for this year.
Bound volume with index of the newsletter for this year. Also include Faculty Senate minutes and index to the minutes for 1969-1970.
Bound volume with index; also includes Faculty Senate minutes and index for 1970-1971.
Bound volume.
Includes Faculty Senate minutes for the May 25, 1972 meeting (meeting 287).
Bound volume with index for this year; also includes Faculty Senate minutes and index of minutes for 1972-1973 meetings.
Bound volume with index of the staff newsletter; also includes Faculty Senate minutes and index for meetings during 1973-1974.
Volune 15, no. 27.
Through March 1987.
Series 2 consists of OSU This Week, the weekly faculty and staff newsletter for Oregon State University, that was published weekly during the academic year, with approximately 35 issues published per year. The new title, OSU This Week, debuted in April 1987. Beginning in September 1994, the publication transitioned to a tabloid-sized format on newsprint. OSU This Week included articles about initiatives and programs at Oregon State; announcements of upcoming campus-wide events; notices of import to faculty and staff; a list of academic and classified staff vacancies; and information and campus buildings and facilities, especially new structures and major modifications. Notices of retirements, deaths, honors, and appointments were also included. The newsletter was printed on Tuesdays (with a submission deadline the previous Friday), distributed through campus mail on Wednesdays, and arrived in campus mailboxes on Thursdays. Most of the issues of OSU This Week are available online in Oregon Digital.
Beginning with first issue of OSU This Week in April 1987 and continuing through the 1987-1988 academic year. Includes the Faculty Senate minutes for the March 3, 1988 meeting (meeting 447).
The last issue of OSU This Week was published on September 11, 2008 based on feedback from faculty and staff.
Series 3 consists of the summer staff newsletter, OSU This Summer. Two or three issues of the newsletter were published each summer beginning in 1993 and continuing through 2008. As with its sibling publication, OSU This Week, the format changed to a tabloid-size on newsprint in 1995. The content included announcements of new initiatives and appointments of new administrators; stories about Oregon State faculty and staff; and calendar notices of upcoming campus-wide events. Most of the issues of OSU This Summer are available online in Oregon Digital.
One issue for 1993 (July) and 3 issues for 1994 (June, July, and August).
Two or three issues published during the summer.
Series 4 consists of LIFE@OSU, the official newsletter for employees at Oregon State University, that was produced in print every other week during the academic year. The content was also available online through an interactive website. This color publication featured stories of the people and programs of Oregon State University and included limited announcements and calendar notices. Production of a print publication ceased with the August 13, 2009 issue and LIFE@OSU transitioned to an online-only publication.
Nineteen issues published twice per month from September 2008 through August 2009.
The Planimetric Maps of Oregon and Washington consist of 60 detailed maps of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers and nearby towns and landscape features immediately following World War II. Coverage of the maps in this collection is centered on Portland and extends on the Willamette River from Oregon City north to the confluence with the Columbia River and on the Columbia River from St. Helens (Oregon) to Camas (Washington). The maps are at 1:9,600 scale. The collection includes sheets with the following names: Camas (6 sheets); Hillsboro (9 sheets); LaCenter (3 sheets); Oregon City (14 sheets); Portland (18 sheets); St. Helens (8 sheets); and Tualatin (2 sheets). An index map (made at a later time) showing the location of all the sheets is also included.
The maps depict water features and land cover, including rivers, lakes, sloughs, marshes, wetlands, islands, and forested areas. Streets, roads and highways as well as railroads, bridges, airports, and shipping terminals are shown on the maps. Parks and wildlife refuges are included. Structures such as schools and churches; mills and factories; and industrial sites, gravel pits, and oil tanks are also depicted. The extent and claimants for land claims are shown on the maps.
The Robert W. Newburgh Papers document Newburgh's research, administrative activities, participation in faculty governance, contributions to statewide and national organizations, and instruction. The Papers include correspondence, research grant proposals and reports, drafts of journal articles and book chapters, committee and organizational records, and course materials.
Of special note are Newburgh's evaluation of proposed environmental sciences programs at Portland State College and the Oregon Technical Institute in 1968; his participation in the Advisory Committee on Environmental Science and Technology which prepared a 1971 report on environmental quality in Oregon; and records of the Environmental Health Sciences Center at Oregon State.
Records of the OSU Chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the Faculty Senate document Newburgh's involvement with faculty governance. The collection also includes materials of the Biological Sciences Committee, the Board of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Student-Faculty conferences held in the early 1970s.
Series I is comprised of correspondence written or received by Newburgh, primarily in his role as chair of the Biochemistry and Biophysics Department. Correspondence pertaining to his research and participation in faculty governance is also included.
Series II consists of grant proposals, correspondence, and progress reports for research conducted by Newburgh. It includes a proposal for a summer training program in toxicology.
Series III consists of manuscripts of journal articles and book chapters written by Newburgh and submitted for publication and related correspondence.
Series IV comprises the bulk of the collection and documents Newburgh's involvement in faculty governance and organizations, including the Faculty Senate and American Association of University Professors. His contributions to state and national committees and organizations, such as the Oregon Heart Association Research Committee and the American Chemical Society Pauling Award Selection Committee, are also reflected in the materials. The records of the Advisory Committee on Environmental Science and Technology includes a report on environmental quality in Oregon. The records include correspondence, reports, meeting minutes, and publications.
Series V consists of course descriptions and outlines, examinations, and course notes for several bichemistry and biophysics courses, including Molecules of Life (BB 100), Introduction to Biophysics (BB 333), Introduction to Physcial Biochemistry (BB 450), and General Biochemistry (BB 451 and 452).
The Western Small Fruit Pest Conference Records document the establishment and functioning of the organization through materials pertaining to the annual meetings held in 1968-1973 and a history of the organization prepared for the 50th annual conference in 1999. The conference materials include agendas and programs for the 1968-1973 conferences, lists of members, correspondence, notes of presentations, and related documentation. A historical summary of the establishment and development of the organization was prepared by Richard H. Converse and Richard Stace-Smith for the 50th annual conference in 1999. This summary describes the establishment of the conference and includes biographical information about the founders and early leaders of the organization. A composite image of attendees at the 1999 meeting is also included. The annual conferences focused on the detection, identification, and control of viruses of raspberries and strawberries.
The Milton O. Stemmler Student Diary includes daily descriptions of Stemmler's activities, including social events, interactions with fellow students and townspeople, paid carpentry and agricultural work, involvement with a local church, and reading habits. The diary includes reports of weather conditions and annual summaries of expenditures and earnings. With regard to Stemmler's life as an Oregon Agricultural College student, the diary describes his participation in band and on the football team, work for Horticulture professor George Coote, interaction with (and negative feelings about) President John M. Bloss, and the classes he attended. The collection consists of a typed transcript.
The Counseling and Psychological Services Records consist of reports, announcements, and research publications that document the programs and activities of the office as well as information about Oregon State University students. The bulk of the collection consists of the Descriptive Research Bulletin.
Annual reports for 1987/1988 and 1989/1990 provide information on the number of students served and the various programs and activities of the Counseling and Testing Center. Academic Resources Lists for 1999 and 2000 were compiled by staff of University Counseling and Psychological Services to provide a coordinated description of all resources available to help OSU students with academic challenges. The collection includes several announcements from Counseling and Psychological Services in 2007 regarding how to respond to distressed students in light of the shootings at Virginia Tech University in April 2007, including a survey assessing awareness of campus resources.
Research reports of the Counseling and Student Personnel Research Team of the Counseling Center issued in 1965-1966 address various topics of academic assessment and achievement, a survey of the non-counseling function of college counseling centers, patterns of college characteristics obtained from OSU students, and a descriptive and comparative study of foreign undergraduate students at Oregon State.
The Descriptive Research Bulletin consists of periodic reports of applied research projects done by the Center for Research on Student Life and Development and the Counseling and Testing Center from 1969 to 1988 with the aim of generating a body of knowledge about Oregon State University students. The reports pertain to academic performance, retention, graduation rates, transfer students from Oregon community colleges, family income levels, student attitudes toward alcohol and drug use, international students, services for military veterans, student housing, and other issues documenting students' academic performance and student life. Many of the academic performance studies report on the preparation of incoming freshman in mathematics and chemistry. Of special interest are reports of several studies of the cross-cultural contact between domestic and international students and a 1979 report on handicapped students at Oregon State University. Many of the reports are authored by Morris LeMay, Roger Penn, or Maryann K. Phillips. A list of all the bulletins is available online.
The John L. Robbins Photographs consist of photographs taken by Robbins during his student years at Oregon State University in the late 1960s and early 1970s documenting numerous campus events, student activities, and campus views and scenes. Some of the images were published in the 1970 and 1971 Beaver yearbooks. The images depict athletic events; concerts, comedy shows, and theatrical performances; oceanographic research; lectures and speeches by visiting public figures and politicians, including a speech by civil rights activist Julian Bond; campus events; carnival rides at night; classrooms; and campus views. The collection includes photographs of football and basketball games as well as track and field meets and wrestling, soccer, rugby, volleyball, baseball, gymnastics, and crew athletes and events. Campus events depicted include the Turtle Derby, held as part of Mom's Weekend, and homecoming activities. Performers depicted in the images include Neil Diamond, Pat Paulsen, Carlos Santana, Donovan, The 5th Dimension, Three Dog Night, Iron Butterfly, Mason Williams, Jonathan Winters, and The Rascals. The collection includes photographs of dormitory life, student organizations, commencement, and protest rallies and marches on campus. Photographs of snow on campus are also included, as well as solar and lunar eclipses.
The photographs include color slides and transparencies, b/w and color negatives, contact sheets, and prints. The bulk of the images are negatives (3370 items); the remainder are color slides and transparencies (779 items) and prints (351 items). Several of the prints are large format (11x14 inches); these depict football games,a student protestor, performers on a stage, Paul Valenti, and a basketball game.
The collection also includes a small quantity of printed materials. These consist of clippings from the Barometer campus newspaper with published images by Robbins as staff photographer for the newspaper and a brochure and poster for the Memorial Union Spring Photo Salon, for which Robbins served a chairman.
The Ruby Breithaupt Photograph Collection consists of five photographic prints of Oregon Agricultural College students assembled by Breithaupt. Four of the prints were made in 1910; they depict picnics, a trip to Jump-off Joe at Nye Beach in Newport, Oregon, and a group of students on the steps of Cauthorn (now Fairbanks) Hall. The following individuals are identified in the photos: Ethel Allen, LeRoy Breithaupt, Leona Davis Cox, Ruby Elliott, Rhetta Huntington, McKinley Huntington, Kat O'Connor, Carl Clifton Titus, and Alfred Edmund Volck.
The collection also includes one albumen print made by John Fulton in about 1893 of a group of Oregon Agricultural College students on the steps of the Station Building (now the Women's Center Building). This group includes Fred Buchanan, Brady Burnett, Edward Getty Emmett, and Erma Laurence.
The Natalie Reichart Papers consist of the manuscript, illustrations, and photographs for Archery, the third edition of an archery textbook written by Reichart and Keasey. It was first published in 1936 as Modern Methods in Archery; A Text for Students and Teachers in Fundamentals of Target Archery.
Both Keasey and Reichart are shown in the photographs demonstrating proper archery techniques and handling. The photographs also depict archery equipment.
The Spike Sisters Scrapbooks consist of three scrapbooks assembled by the sisters during their student years at Oregon Agricultural College. Two of the scrapbooks were assembled by Eleanor and Frances and include materials primarily from the early 1920s; the other scrapbook was assembled by Mary and includes materials from the 1930s. The scrapbooks include photographs, clippings, programs, dance cards, tickets, and other ephemeral items. The photographs are primarily snapshots of other students; they also include images of student activities and outings, campus buildings, and snow scenes. Group photographs of Mary Spike's Sigma Kappa sorority sisters and fellow pharmacy students are included.
The collection includes football game programs, a program for the Military Tournament, and dance and theater performance programs. Of special note is a menu from the Andrews and Kerr restaurant in Corvallis and the fall 1931 edition (volume 5) of The Manuscript, a literary magazine of student writing published by the English Department. Lecture notes taken by Mary Spike for Chemistry 204 (taken in 1934) and Economic Geography (taken in 1931) are included. An Oregon State College binder used by Mary and autographed by fellow students is part of the collection.
This collection consists of photographs from the Herbarium. About half of the photographs are identified and one-third are dated. The images depict a variety of plants and trees both in the wild and in greenhouses, famous botanists, Curators of the Herbarium including E.R. Lake and Helen Gilkey, botany students engaged in research in the classroom and in the field, logging operations, and views of Marys Peak taken from several locations.
There are 29 prints in this collection: 28 b/w and 1 color. The remainder of the photographic images are nitrate and glass plate negatives with no prints.
Different from P093:08.
P093:34-P093:40 are identified and appear to have been copied from a publication on famous botanists. Images P093:41-P093:52 are unidentified.
Content Description
The collection consists of seven born digital audio recordings of interviews with undergraduate and graduate student employees of the OSU Native American Longhouse. These recordings were originally captured in *.wav format, files which have been saved as preservation copies for each interview. Access *.mp3 files have been created for each interview as well. All interviews held in the collection have been transcribed by the staff of the Special Collections & Archives Research Center. Researcher access to both the collection's audio and transcripts is available on site and online.
All interviews were conducted by either Natalia Fernández, the Oregon Multicultural Librarian and a staff member of the Special Collections & Archives Research Center, or Dr. Natchee Barnd, professor of Ethnic Studies at Oregon State University. Topics touched upon in the collection's interviews include: Native American culture; working at the OSU Native American Longhouse; events hosted by or affiliated with the Native American Longhouse; the Quonset hut and Eena Haws Native American Longhouse facilities; diversity initiatives at OSU; the evolution of interviewees' personal identities as people of color; negotiating life at OSU as a student of color; and the future role of the Native American Longhouse both on campus and in the community.
At the time of this interview, Hali'a Parish was an office assistant at the Native American Longhouse. A junior studying Business, Parish came to OSU from her hometown of Kapolei, Hawaii on the island of O'ahu.
Parish discusses her experiences and personal growth working on campus in the Native American Longhouse; her thoughts on the importance of diversity development in OSU and the local community; the joys and challenges of learning the Native American culture; the success of NAL participation in events such as Heritage Month, Connect Week, the annual Salmon Bake and the Grand Opening of the new Native American Longhouse; the September retreat in Salem for cultural centers staff; the opening of the new longhouse and the sense of community within; her ideas for Native Hawaiian activities, collaboration with the Polynesian Culture Club and Hui o Hawai'i, and outreach to the local population; her advice to future longhouse staff; and her experiences as a Native Hawaiian both in Hawaii and at OSU. [Interview conducted by Natchee Barnd]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Carmen López was an office assistant at the Native American Longhouse. A junior double-majoring in Human Development & Family Sciences and Spanish, López came to OSU from her hometown of The Dalles, Oregon.
López discusses her experience working as an office assistant at NAL and learning about Native cultures; the NAL booth on Earth Day; the Salmon Bake event; the importance of salmon and camas to the tribes of the Pacific Northwest and the need to better communicate the meaning of salmon, camas, and dream catchers to event attendees; her experiences as a non-Native member of the staff; her feelings on missing the old Quonset hut; her advice for future non-Native NAL staff and any staff working in cultural centers they don't racially or ethnically identify with; the significance of the full name of the new Longhouse; her ideas about the NAL collaborating with the 4Cs; and the positive effect of OSU on her personal identity as Latina, Mexicana, and Chicana. [Interview conducted by Natalia Fernández]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Daniel Cárdenas was a graduate teaching assistant at the Native American Longhouse. A first-year graduate student in College Student Services Administration, Cárdenas came to OSU from his hometown of Fair Oaks, California.
Cárdenas discusses the challenges, responsibilities, and growth he has experienced working as a graduate teaching assistance in the Longhouse; the events of Native Heritage Month; the planning and challenges of opening and moving into the new Longhouse; the annual Pow Wow thrown by the Native American Student Association; relationships with other cultural centers staff; ideas for inter-cultural center collaboration; the Oregon One Percent for Art law and the art in the new Longhouse, including the art of artist Shirod Younker; the importance of honoring intersecting identities; the generosity of the local Native community; ideas about bringing in Native language speakers, visiting other longhouses and building ties with the nine tribes of Oregon; and OSU's impact on his personal racial, ethnic, and spiritual identity. [Interview conducted by Natalia Fernández]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Nadia Alradhi was an activities coordinator at the Native American Longhouse. A senior in Public Health, Alradhi came to OSU from her hometown of Estacada, Oregon.
Alradhi, a member of the Karuk Tribe of Northern California, describes her experiences as Activities Coordinator at the Native American Longhouse (NAL) and Secretary of the Native American Student Association (NASA). She discusses planning NAL activities; bringing events to OSU dorms; the challenge of advertising the NAL as available for non-natives as well as natives; NASA Pow Wow planning and Jim Thorpe's 5k Dash for Diabetes; the challenges of learning more about other native tribes; the Transforming Columbus Day event in collaboration with the Centro Cultural César Chávez; interacting and collaborating with other cultural centers; the addition of "Eena Haws" to the Longhouse name; her hope to bring back the "Calling All Natives" outreach event; advice for future staff; the effect of racism on her grandfather; the Longhouse impact on her as a Native student; negative comments from non-natives; her suggestions to get more exposure for NAL; her experience as an informal advocate for natives; and her wish for NAL and NASA to collaborate more. [Interview conducted by Natalia Fernández]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Mariah Huhndorf was an activities coordinator at the Native American Longhouse. A junior General Science major studying to become a physician's assistant, Huhndorf came to OSU from her hometown of Kenai, Alaska.
Huhndorf, a native Alaskan with an Athabaskan mother and Yupik father, describes her experiences at Oregon State University, both as a student and as an activities coordinator at the Native American Longhouse. She discusses Longhouse events, such as the Alaska Winter Games, which she coordinated; the challenges and solutions that NAL staff have experienced with communication; her suggestions that staff learn more about events hosted at the NAL by other groups and work to make it clear that the NAL welcomes all visitors, native or not; what the new Longhouse means to her; how OSU and the NAL have affected her own identity as a native Alaskan; the importance of sharing stories; and the "culture shock" she felt coming to Corvallis, with a population of about 54,700, from her hometown of Kenai, Alaska, with a population of about 7,000. [Interview conducted by Natchee Barnd]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Matt Williams was the internal coordinator at the Native American Longhouse. A junior in Exercise and Sports Science, Williams came to OSU from his hometown of Winston, Oregon.
Williams, a Native American with Oglala Sioux, Cherokee and Osage heritage, discusses his experiences as a student, a Native American, and a staff member at the Native American Longhouse (NAL). His discussions include his responsibilities, experiences, and personal growth as an NAL office assistant, activities coordinator and internal coordinator; the importance of teaching about native traditions; the Indigenous Feast at the end of Heritage Month; the Jackson family from Warm Springs Reservation; the challenges of managing time as a working student; NAL collaborations with various OSU departments and his desire for relationships with more departments; Dr. Robert Thompson's talk on Native American and African American relations during the Civil War; his suggestions for future events and visits to native high schoolers; advice to future coordinators; the challenges of letting non-natives know they can use the NAL; his father's adoption away from the Pine Ridge Reservation where he was born and subsequent separation from his culture; the Nike N7 Native Americans in sport program and the importance of basketball on many native reservations; stereotypes about Native Americans; and his experience of being mixed native and having a white mother. [Interview conducted by Natchee Barnd]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
At the time of this interview, Tyler Hogan was the external coordinator at the Native American Longhouse. A senior in Political Science, Hogan came to OSU from his hometown of Junction City, Oregon.
Hogan, a member of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma, talks about his responsibilities and growth as an external coordinator at the Native American Longhouse (NAL), where he was previously a volunteer, as well as his experiences as a Native American student at OSU. His discussions include the importance of the Salmon Bake event; the NAL's relationship with nearby tribes and his desire for more tribal outreach; Heritage Month events, including the Two-Spirit event and tribal resource kit; the difficulty of presenting a unified message when the NAL staff are from so many different cultures; the gathering of student input during the planning stages of the new Longhouse; what the new Longhouse means to him; his advice to future coordinators; how resilient, passionate, and empowered Native Americans are, especially when given the opportunity; the three functions of the Longhouse; the Longhouse as a "home away from home" for native students; the effect of the Longhouse on OSU and the local community; the Longhouse's contribution to personal identity development of staff and visitors; negative comments and stereotypes about Native Americans; and the N7 program's positive effect on cultural competency. [Interview conducted by Natalia Fernández]
Interview transcript and audio available online.
The Frank G. Sutherland Notebook documents Sutherland's chemistry laboratory assignments and experiments during the 1912-1913 academic year at Oregon Agricultural College.
The Benjamin B. Stout Papers consist of materials created and assembled by Stout in the course of his work as a forestry researcher, university professor and administrator, writer, and advisor and advocate on natural resources policy. The Papers include articles, essays, and other publications; correspondence; presentations and speeches; research data; and reference materials. Stout's publications and presentations reflect a diversity of topics, including forest monitoring programs, declines in pine growth, forest growth simulation, and height-diameter studies of trees as a sign of productivity. Correspondents represented in the collection include fellow academics, including Hugh Raup; foresters; governmental agencies; natural resource organizations; and state and federal legislators including Oregon State Representative Liz Van Leeuwen, Congressmen Mike Kopetski and Peter De Fazio, and Senators Ron Wyden and Gordon Smith. The collection also includes materials documenting Stout's work for the National Council of the Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement such as research publications, conference and workshop presentations, correspondence with academic colleagues.
The reference materials comprise about a third of the collection and include reports, publications, newspaper clippings, maps, and articles documenting various forestry, ecology, and natural resource management topics. In addition to the controversial listing of the northern spotted owl and marbled murrelet as protected endangered species in Oregon, the materials address global warming, historical overviews of the timber industry in Oregon, cumulative effects of forest practices in Oregon, and Harvard University's research forest.
The Extension Bulletin Illustrations Photograph Collection consists of images (primarily black-and-white photographic prints) that were created and assembled for use in Oregon State College Extension Service publications and county reports. They document extension activities in agriculture, home economics, and youth programs. Of particular note are images of the World War II period including Bracero and other farm workers in the Emergency Farm Labor Service; other wartime extension activities; and the relocation of Japanese-Americans residing in Oregon.
The Agricultural Experiment Station Special Reports consist of more than 1100 reports published from 1954 to 2012. The reports address a wide variety of agricultural topics studied by Agricultural Experiment Station and Extension Service researchers. The bulk of the reports document activities of the Experiment Station; however, Extension Service programs are also reflected in the reports and the Extension Service published some of the reports solely or in collaboration with the Experiment Station. Beginning in the 1970s, the series includes some reports prepared by the Sea Grant College Program and the Western Rural Development Center.
The Special Reports are available online in ScholarsArchive@OSU, where keyword searching can be performed on the reports.
For numbers 1 through 133, the publications were referred to as “Miscellaneous Papers”; the title of the series changed to Special Reports in the early 1960s. Through the early 1970s, some numbers in the series were assigned to research papers or reports published in journals or conference proceedings. Some, but not all of these, are included in this collection.
Annual research reports from branch experiment stations – Malheur, Columbia Basin, Eastern Oregon, Klamath Basin, and North Willamette – comprise a substantial quantity of the Special Reports. Annual reports of the international Winter X Spring Wheat Screening Nursery for 1977-1978 through 1997-1998 were issued as Special Reports, as well as annual reports on beef cattle nutrition and management and reports of the annual field days focused on beef, sheep and wool, and swine. Annual reports of recommended grain varieties for winter (1986-2003) and spring (1998-2003) are also available.
Beginning in the 1990s, the Special Reports include user guides and manuals for computer programs. Agricultural estimates for Oregon counties and the state were issued annually from 1986 to 2011.
The Special Reports address a broad scope of topics pertaining to agriculture in Oregon and the impact of agriculture on the Oregon economy; rangeland management, grazing, soils, water resources and irrigation, water quality, riparian areas, and watershed management; land use planning and planning for recreation and tourism in the state, beginning in the early 1970s; climatological data; ecological provinces of Oregon; pesticide use; salmon restoration; alternatives to field burning; wine grape research; and mink research.
The Special Reports ceased publication in 2012.
The Memorial Union Campaign Records document efforts to fund construction of the Oregon Agricultural College Memorial Union through a multi-year pledge drive. The vast majority of the materials in this collection reflect the Memorial Union's attempts to collect on pledges generated during the campaign. Much of the collection is comprised of correspondence between representatives of the Memorial Union, attorneys employed by the Memorial Union, various financial institutions, and pledging individuals who detail the financial hardships created by the pledge debts, especially following the Wall Street Crash of 1929.
The collection also includes pledge cards, ledger cards, and other documents representing the financial successes and failures of the campaign. The ledger cards record individual pledges, itemized debits to each pledge account, and in some cases, extenuating circumstances surrounding nonpayment.
Additionally, the collection includes two scrapbooks, photographs, newspaper clippings, mailers, promotional materials, and other ephemera documenting the campaign from 1924-1928.
Series 1 is comprised of correspondence to and from individuals with Memorial Union pledges. The series includes correspondence from representatives of the Memorial Union (predominately the Manager, Edward C. Allworth), firms contracted by the Memorial Union to collect on outstanding debts, and individuals with pledges to the Memorial Union. The series includes "Paid in Full" and "Unpaid" accounts, as identified and organized by Memorial Union personnel. While the majority of the correspondence documents the efforts of the Memorial Union to collect on outstanding pledges, some correspondence does acknowledge full payment of pledges.
Many of the letters in this series are from individuals giving reasons for non-payment or asking to be excused from their debt to the Memorial Union. Many detail personal and financial hardships including unemployment, illness, and family obligations. As one individual noted, "Times were pretty tough for those of us just getting out of college in 1929 which didn’t help matters any of course... $14.00 is still $14.00 and John still has to have new shoes." Others express frustration or anger, arguing that the Memorial Union had no authority to demand payment, or request to have their pledges cancelled due to misgivings about the College, the Memorial Union organization, or the building itself. Another individual with an unpaid pledge claimed, "That pledge is not binding to me since the plans were altered since that pledge was made and the auditorium--which was the only worthwhile feature of the building--was taken out."
The correspondence in this series appears in approximately alphabetical order by last name assigned to the pledge account, as organized by Memorial Union personnel.
Series 2 is comprised of correspondence and documents describing legal action taken by the Memorial Union against individuals with oustanding pledge balances. Files include correspondence with pledging individuals, contracted law firms, and various legal bodies including courts and law enforcement offices. Account cards and court documents are also present. A portion of these materials are organized by the law office or attorney's name. The remainder of the series is organized alphabetically by the defendant's last name.
Series 3 is comprised of records documenting funds generated by the Memorial Union campaign. The series includes pledge cards, which took the form of legally binding promissory notes and include basic information about the pledging individual and the terms of the pledge; ledger cards which document the payment history of each pledge, basic information about the pledging individual, and special circumstances or changes to the pledge's status; and aggregate financial records including a cash journal, a ledger, and three undated lists with names, addresses, and pledge amounts for pledging individuals.
The pledge and ledger cards are arranged approximately alphabetically by the pledging individual's last name and the status of the pledge. Status assigned to pledges, repetition in alphabetical ordering, and inconsistent organization are reflective of the original order imposed by Memorial Union personnel.
Series 4 is comprised of two scrapbooks and several files documenting the genesis and progress of the Memorial Union Campaign. The scrapbooks contain materials from the 1924-1925 and 1925-1926 legs of the campaign and include promotional materials, campaign documents, newsclippings, and photographs. The series also includes newspaper clippings reporting on the 1928 drive; "Bulletins of Progress" issued by the Memorial Union chronicling the construction of the building; copies of the Memorial Union Constitution; and other ephemera including promotional mailers, pledge cards, and membership cards.
This scrapbook includes the campaign schedule; packets for pledge drive workers including pledge cards, envelopes, workers' agreements, and instructions; pamphlets, brochures, and flyers; form letters sent to potential donors; and stationary.
This scrapbook includes 9 photographs of the Memorial Union site and personnel; pledge cards; promotional flyers and event announcements; pages from the OAC Alumnus; and numerous clippings from newspapers throughout the Pacific Northwest. The newsclippings document the progress of the campaign throughout 1925 and 1926, with emphasis on the success of the funding drives.
The Affirmative Action Office Records document the development and implementation of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity policies, plans, and programs at Oregon State University, especially with regard to women, ethnic minorities, individuals with disabilities, and veterans. The records include correspondence, handbooks, meeting minutes, newspaper clippings, notes, overhead transparencies, photographs, policies and procedures, publications, reports, speeches, and survey records.
The collection includes substantive materials pertaining to athletics compliance, civil rights, domestic partner policies, gender equity, grievance procedures, harassment, racism, recruitment and retention of minority students, sexism, and sexual orientation. The records document the development of minority action plans for campus units; interactions with state and regional advocacy groups; university committees, such as the President's Commission on the Status of Women, Minority Affairs Commission, and Board of Visitors for Minority Affairs; collection of summary data on faculty, staff, and students at Oregon State; and presentations and training workshops.
Most of the materials in this collection reflect Stephanie Sanford's tenure as Director of the OAAEO in 1987-2000. Beyond the correspondence, reports, and policies generated by Sanford, the collection includes several speeches she gave as well as her published articles.
The collection includes 5 photographic prints of Affirmative Action staff at a staff retreat in 1996.
Series I comprises the bulk of the collection and documents the functioning and programs of the Affirmative Action Office at Oregon State University. The subject files include correspondence, reference materials, presentations, speeches, meeting minutes and committee records, and newspaper clippings. The records document affirmative action in employment of women, minorities, individuals with disabilities, and veterans as well as civil rights, harassment, sexism, recruitment and retention of minority students, domestic partner policies, grievance procedures, and athletics compliance.
Includes 3 zip disks.
Corvallis gay and lesbian group.
State of Oregon statistics.
Implications for law and race.
Includes one floppy disk.
Student protest at OSU regarding racism.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act.
Speech by Stephanie Sanford for meeting.
Students of color.
HR 2235 - Workforce 2000 Employment Readiness Act of 1989
3 folders
Retreat.
Perhaps 1980s.
2 folders
Speeches given by Stephanie Sanford.
Includes meeting minutes, reports, and data.
Primarily clippings related to affirmative action.
OSU Board of Visitors for Minority Affairs plan.
Policies, laws, and case studies.
Resources for the gay, lesbian, and bisexual community in Corvallis.
Includes 5 photographs of Affirmative Action staff at a staff retreat in 1996.
PBS television program.
Class action lawsuit of Anna Peck vs. the Oregon State System of Higher Education.
Information about athletics operations compiled for an U.S. Department of Education Office of Civil Rights (OCR) compliance review.
Series II consists of Oregon State University Affirmative Action plans and guidelines issued in 1971, 1975, 1977, 1989, and 1991. The plans include OSU's Affirmative Action Policy Statement as well as information regarding the administrative organization and responsibility for implementation of the plan; employment programs; student affirmative action programs; dissemination of the policy and plan; monitoring, evaluation, and reporting; and affirmative action programs for veterans and persons with disabilities.
Series III consists of affirmative action and other policies and procedures specific to Oregon State University. These include the Affirmative Action Policies and Procedures Handbook, distributed as part of OSU's Administrative Policy and Procedures Manual, as well as policies regarding AIDS, domestic partners, English language proficiency, family support, free speech, non-discrimination on the basis of disability, religion, and sexual harassment.
Series IV consists of reports prepared or received by the Affirmative Action office and includes the Affirmative Action Annual Report for 1986-1987 and OSU's Title IX Interim Report completed in 1976. This report includes detailed analysis and review of the policies and procedures of colleges, departments, and other units regarding women. This review specifically addressed financial aid, scholarships, and publications. It does not include information on intercollegiate athletics, intramurals, or recreational sports. Of special note is the 1994 report on minority faculty recruitment and the perceptions of the campus climate by minority faculty, which is available online.
Conference presentation outline from Stephanie Sanford.
Report by the American Council on Education.
Report by the Minority Affairs Commission.
Report by OSU Extension.
Minority report prepared by the Oregon State University Women's Study Group and submitted to Marlaina Kiner, Director of the Office for Civil Rights, on February 24, 1972.
Series V consists of publications prepared and distributed by the Affirmative Action Office and includes brochures, newsletters, and directories. The newsletters, Current Comments (1977-1978) and Affirmative Action News (1986-1990), include information about staff, events, and programs. The Resource Directory was prepared as a tool to assist OSU offices and department in recruiting and employing members of under-represented groups. The series also includes a booklet for recruitment of minority graduate students.
The Fisheries and Wildlife Department Photographs consist of images taken or assembled by the department that document students and faculty as well as the teaching and research programs in fisheries and wildlife. The bulk of the photographs were separated from the Fisheries and Wildlife Department Records (RG 190) and include photographs of big game field trips conducted by the department; a fish pond field day in Jefferson County in 1968; and several Oregon Cooperative Wildife Research Unit projects.
The big game field trip photographs are primarily group photographs of the students and faculty that participated in the annual trips; they also depict locations visited during the trips as well as guest leaders. The fish pond field day was sponsored by the Extension Service for a group of third graders at the Roy Stevenson farm in Jefferson County; the students may include Native American children from Warm Springs.
The Oregon Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit photographs depict projects pertaining to waterfowl, pheasants, duck and geese hunting, and antelope.
The collection also includes images of Fisheries and Wildlife alumnus Don Carr receiving the Distinguished Service Cross in 1971; Thomas G. Scott, department chair, presenting an award for best paper at the Oregon Wildlife Society meeting to Eleanor Horvitz; and a field trip to the Murderer's Creek deer range.
The collection consists predominantly of b/w prints and negatives; there are a few color prints included.
The Oregon Pioneers Oral History Collection consists of 33 interviews conducted primarily in the summer of 1975 by Oregon State University students in a journalism seminar to document various aspects of local history from 1880 to 1929 in preparation for the United States bicentennial in 1976. All of the interviews were conducted in the summer of 1975 with the exception of the Helen Johnston interview, which was conducted in March 1976.
The following individuals were interviewed as part of the project: Edith E. (Peggy) Allworth, Virgil Avery, Mr. and Mrs. Harold Carey, Chester and Rita Chambers, Alice Coolidge, Chester Cosgrove, Catherine Ann Cracraft, William Payne, George Buxton, Ralph Schindler, F.A. and Violette Gilfillan, Dan S. Hart, Melvin S. Hawkins, George and Bessie Hughes, Minnie McMurtry, Ethel Morgan, Floyd Mullen, Bessie Murphy, Dale Propst, Winnie Propost, Robert E. Sommers, Robert Rilatos, Florence Adell Smith, T.J. Starker, A.L. and Mollie Strand, Beatrice Eddy Wilcox, Baird Woodcock, Violet Updike, Richard Andor Christiansen, Bertha A. King, Minerva Kiger Reynolds, and Helen Johnston. The name of an interviewee who discussed bootlegging in the area during Prohibition is not given.
The interviews describe Corvallis, Philomath, Kings Valley, Benton County, and the surrounding area (including Newport and Yaquina Bay) in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Topics include railroads and ferries, Corvallis businesses, the Fischer flour mill, logging and lumber mills, agriculture, Chautauqua events, pioneer families, and the Siletz Native Americans. A few of the interviews address topics relating to Oregon State University, such as the Memorial Union, the President's home on campus, and the name change from Oregon State College to Oregon State University.
Interviewers include Judith Carlson, Lorraine Charlton-Ruff, Janice Tiland, and Darrell Wolfe.
The collection includes both audiocassettes and transcripts for almost all (30) of the interviews. For two of the interviews (Robert E. Sommers and T.J. Starker), only transcripts are available. There is only a sound recording (no transcript) for the interview of Minerva Kiger Reynolds. Copies of the publication, Pioneers, that was prepared using in the interviews are also included in the collection.
The Sciuchetti Collection consists of photographic copy negatives and prints of Sciuchetti with pharmacy students and faculty.
The Richard Y. Morita Papers document the academic career and professional activities of Richard Yukio Morita, primarily his research in marine microbiology and marine ecology. The Papers consist primarily of correspondence and also include biographical information, grant records, publication contracts, and photographs. The correspondence includes extensive correspondence between Morita and his mentor and graduate advisor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Claude E. ZoBell, as well as other collaborators and scientific colleagues. Correspondence and related materials document Morita’s numerous publications of journal articles, book chapters, and monographs. Morita participated in some of the first expeditions to study the deep sea in the 1950s and 1960s. These expeditions and the resulting scientific outcomes are extensively documented in this collection.
Materials documenting Morita’s research on the interaction of pressure and temperature on marine bacteria, microorganisms in extreme environments, and bacteria in oligotrophic (nutrient poor) environments form the bulk of this collection.
The biographical materials include an in-depth autobiographical essay in which Morita describes his childhood in southern California; his internment as a Japanese American during World War II and subsequent military service; and his education and career. Morita’s numerous awards and recognitions are documented in the collection as well as his roles in the scientific community as a reviewer, consultant, journal editor, and organizer of symposia.
Series 1 consists of a complete Curriculum Vitae for Dr. Morita that lists all of the professional positions he held, his publications, honors received, awarded grants, and other aspects of his career; an autobiographical essay written in 1995 and updated in 2000; and a U.S. Government form “Statement of Personal History" completed in 1953. The autobiographical essay is of special note as Morita describes his experiences as a child and youth in southern California; his internment and later military service during World War II; and his education and career.
Series 2 comprises the bulk of this collection and consists of correspondence sent and received by Morita and associated documents and materials. The correspondence is arranged by project, publication, or correspondent and documents Morita’s research and publishing, scientific expeditions, and the long-term relationships he developed with his collaborators and colleagues. The series includes substantial correspondence with Claude E. ZoBell, Morita’s mentor and graduate advisor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography; Rita Colwell at the University of Maryland; and Francisco Torrella. The ZoBell and Colwell correspondence files also include extensive biographical information about those two scientists. The general correspondence pertains to publications, patents, and Morita’s research and also includes award nominations and tributes to Morita made at his retirement. Materials documenting his teaching and service at Oregon State University are also included in the general correspondence. This series includes 15 photographs, primarily photomicrographs.
Proposal review process controversy.
Includes 14 photographs of specimens (photomicrographs).
Expert witness testimony.
Includes 1 photograph.
Series 3 consists primarily of correspondence between Morita and agencies that funded his research – primarily the National Science Foundation (NSF) and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). The series also includes award notifications and grant accounting information from the Oregon State University Research Accounting Office. A few grant applications and revised budgets are also part of this series.
Series 4 consists of publication contracts and agreements, royalty payment statements, and related documentation and correspondence for book chapters and journal articles written by Morita. The series also includes requests to reproduce illustrations published by Morita.
Series 5 consist of photographic prints assembled by Morita depicting himself, his scientific colleagues; and research activities at sea and in tropical settings, including Pago Pago. The series includes 60 photographic prints. All of the photographs (with the exception of 1 color print) are b/w. Some of the images are formal portraits and professional photographs; others are informal snapshots.
Images depicting fieldwork in a tropical setting and a close-up of laboratory set-up on the Mid-Pacific Expedition in 1950 that includes S.C. Rittenberg and Morita; 3 prints.
Includes a 1949 portrait photo of Morita; snapshots and other photos of Morita working in the laboratory; photographs of Morita with groups of colleagues, including Claude E. ZoBell; a portrait photograph of Claude E. ZoBell; and photographs of a research vessel and research being conducted at sea. 22 prints
Snapshots of Morita and others at sea and in Pago Pago. 28 prints (1 color; 27 b/w).
Morita was the principal organizer and a participant in the 2nd U.S.-Japan Cooperative Conference on Marine Microbiology in College Park, Maryland. Photographs depict participants at the conference including Morita and scientists from the United States and Japan. 7 prints.
The Center for the Humanities Records document the creation and activities of the Center itself, and also tell the story of the entity that preceded the Center at Oregon State University, the Humanities Development Program.
The collection includes, in Series I, records describing the formation, operation and assessment of the Humanities Development Program, which was first conceptualized in 1975 and came into being following OSU's receipt of a National Endowment for the Humanities grant in 1977. Events sponsored or co-sponsored by the program, including lecture series, film screenings and stage performances, have been arranged into Series II. The primary thrust of the NEH grant that funded the Humanities Development Program was the creation of four interdisciplinary study certificate programs - two in Community Studies, one in Northwest Studies and another in Marine and Maritime Studies - and records relating to these initiatives are available in Series III.
Series IV is devoted to the second NEH grant, a challenge grant funded in 1984, that led to the creation and endowment of the OSU Center for the Humanities. The Center's operations are described in Series V and include records of the Center's Program Advisory Board, Center newsletters, annual reports, materials relating to budget and facilities, newspaper clippings and a small collection of photographs. The Center's correspondence - mostly written by Peter Copek - with a wide array of individuals and organizations is available in Series VI. Series VII focuses on events sponsored or co-sponsored by the Center, including music festivals, colloquia and a high-profile lecture series celebrating the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution in 1987. The successful proposals and subsequent tenures of various Center fellows, both internal and external, have been arranged into Series VIII. Finally, Series IX lends detailed insight into the International Film Series, a Center-supported initiative which brought foreign and independent cinema to the OSU campus every weekend during the term for more than twenty years.
Documentation of the original idea for the Humanities Development Program, as well as the NEH grant ("An Exploration of Community") that made it a reality, can be found in Series I. The series also contains materials reflecting the program's daily activities, two sets of reports assessing the workings of the program, and content generated by the task force charged with transitioning the program into a full-fledged center.
File includes annual reports for 1976-1977 and 1977-1978; "The Rosenheim Report," an independent review of the program conducted by Robert Albrecht, Walter Jones and Edward Rosenheim; curricula vitae for program administrators Peter Copek and Bill Robbins; program budget expenditures and projections; and student evaluations of courses sponsored by the program.
File includes internal correspondence related to the report as well as a typescript: "Response to the Evaluation Report of the Oregon State University Humanities Development Program by the NEH Site Visit Team, February 1979," written by Peter Copek, June 1979.
The Humanities Development Program's public outreach agenda has been arranged into Series II. Major events sponsored or co-sponsored by the program have been itemized individually; calendars and flyers that provide a more thorough view of all of the program's engagement with the public are available as well.
Files include materials concerning the conference budget, program and participants, as well as correspondence documenting its organization.
Files includes materials concerning the conference budget, program and participants, as well as correspondence documenting its organization.
Items tracing the creation, evolution and operations of the Humanities Development Program's academic certificate programs have been arranged into Series III. The 1977 grant that led to the implementation of the Humanities Development Program specified that four interdisciplinary certificate programs be added to OSU's humanities offerings. Two of these programs - "Community as People, Place and Idea" and "Science, Technology and Community" - were later merged together under the umbrella of Twentieth Century Studies.
File includes materials concerning the meeting budget, program and participants, as well as correspondence documenting its organization.
File includes a catalog of the OSU Marine and Maritime Studies Slide Collection.
Bibliography of resources relevant to the program's course offerings in Northwest Studies; Marine and Maritime Studies; Community Studies; and Science, Technology and Values.
Series IV holds materials documenting the work required to write, fulfill and implement the 1984 NEH Challenge Grant that led to the creation of the OSU Center for the Humanities. The series likewise includes several different iterations of the NEH grant proposal, which was finally submitted in May 1984.
Documentation of both the Center's on-going planning processes and regular operations is held in Series V. Of particular note are records pertaining to the Center's Program Advisory Committee, a group of OSU faculty, mostly from the College of Liberal Arts, who served two-year terms and who provided input on a number of issues related to the Center, including selection of both internal and external fellows. The series also holds materials related to the Center's budget and facilities, as well as annual reports, newsletters and newspaper clippings that provide detailed insight into the Center's activities over time. Where appropriate, date ranges reflect activities conducted over the course of a given academic year.
This committee was charged with discussing potential areas of focus that the Center could consider for coordination and support during its first few years of operation.
The Center's Program Advisory Board consisted of OSU faculty, mostly from the College of Liberal Arts and usually serving for terms lasting two years. The board was charged with advising on most aspects of the Center's operations, including topical themes of support, selection of internal and external fellows, public programming, administration of grant funds, other fundraising, and issues related to Center facilities.
Initiated by the Humanities Development Program, the Humanities Film Collection consisted of films either purchased or leased by the Center for Humanities and made available to OSU faculty for use in the classroom. A catalog of this collection was compiled by the Center for the Humanities and its films were organized into the following categories: Early Comedy, Silent Drama, The Thirties, Post-War Cinema, International New Waves, Experimental Film and Animation, and Documentaries. The collection's documentaries were further classified as: General, World War II, Religion, Third World, Americana, and Marine and Maritime.
Photos include an image of Peter Copek conversing with Senator Bob Packwood at a press conference announcing the creation of the OSU Center for the Humanities; an image of the Autzen House facility; and images of Center fellows Michael Coolen, Rachelle McCabe and Don Morton [?]. File also includes two negatives of unidentified etchings.
Series VI holds materials that document the Center's communications with fellowship applicants, invited speakers, internal stakeholders, and other humanities centers around the country. The series' General Correspondence files primarily focus on daily operations at the center. While the files in the series are dominated by correspondence, they also hold grant proposals made by other institutions/humanities centers and proposals made to funding organizations by the Center, as well as an array of newsletters, articles, curricula vitae, brochures, event posters and assorted background materials.
File includes an audiocassette recording of a talk delivered by Birn at OSU, "Script Writing a Revolution: The Pamphlet Press and the Estates General of 1789," delivered February 22, 1989.
File includes a proposal to the Collins Foundation for the funding of a building to house the OSU Center for the Humanities.
File includes a proposal made to Gilley for endowment of the OSU Center for the Humanities.
File includes a monograph "Notes of a Naturalist: Poems and Drawings by Kenneth Gordon," published by the OSU Center for the Humanities, 1987.
File includes a typescript "Controversy: Catalyst for Change," written by Williams circa 1989.
Arranged into Series VII are materials related to numerous events, both large and small, that were either sponsored or co-sponsored by the Center. Primary among these events is the lecture series "The Constitution 1787-1987: Bicentennial Reflections," which brought nine different speakers to the OSU campus including Gore Vidal, who delivered the keynote address. The series likewise documents two music festivals, numerous symposia and colloquia, as well as an NEH-funded initiative for OSU faculty study of four non-western epics, as led by a series of invited experts.
The "Center Activities - General" files include documentation of various activities sponsored by the Center for the Humanities, including Working Paper Series presentations and other seminars led by Center fellows, as well as film screenings, musical performances and other events co-sponsored by the Center in collaboration with various campus and community groups.
"Amadeus: The Life and Times of Mozart" was the title given to a two-month festival hosted in January-March 1986 on the OSU campus and elsewhere around Corvallis. The centerpiece of the festival consisted of six lecture-concerts and ancillary panel discussions focusing on Mozart's life, work and contemporaries. File includes a proposal to the Oregon Committee for the Humanities for funding of the event.
File includes black and white contact sheets and prints consisting primarily of images of OSU Music professor Tharald Borgir posing with a fortepiano. The file's contact sheets also include portraits of Mozart at various points in his life.
Winter music festival presented at OSU in January-March 1987.
A lecture series consisting of nine talks hosted by OSU in April-May, 1987. Files include a proposal to the John Ben Snow Memorial Trust for funding of the series.
In preparing for the "Bicentennial Reflections" lecture series, Center for the Humanities staff compiled folders for each conference speaker. These files included background information on the speaker, documents reflecting the logistics of their visits and stays in Corvallis, and materials related to the lectures that they delivered as participants in the series. The series speakers documented in these files are: George Anastaplo, Dwight G. Anderson, Carol Berkin, Lacy K. Ford, John Kaminski, Walter LaFeber, Tom Slaughter, Gore Vidal (keynote), and Sheldon Wolin. Files are also included for Stanley Katz, Stanley Kutler, Pauline Maier and Orde Pinckney, all of whom were invited to participate but did not do so.
A compilation of the presentations given under the sponsorship of the OSU lecture series bearing the same name. This manuscript was compiled with the hope that it be published in monograph form.
Winter music festival presented at OSU in January-March 1988.
Subtitled "An Interdisciplinary Conference on the Economic, Political, Social, Rhetorical and Technological Implications of the Military Industrial Complex," this event was held at OSU from October 13-15, 1988 and featured addresses by David Eisenhower, Johan Galtung and Seymour Melman.
A series of six lectures presented at OSU from January-April, 1989. File includes a Project Director's Notebook documenting a performance by Clay Jenkinson titled "An Innocent Abroad: Thomas Jefferson in Paris," and supported by a grant from the Oregon Committee for the Humanities.
This successful grant application supported the study, by fifteen OSU scholars, of four non-western epics in the company of "invited lead scholars of international repute."
A series of film screenings, round table discussions, and talks focusing on Spanish cinema, this event was held in Corvallis and Portland from February 27-March 3, 1991.
A colloquium hosted by the Center for the Humanities on May 1, 1992 and featuring talks by John R. Lampe and Franjo Štiblar.
Series VIII is comprised of internal and external fellowship proposals known or suspected to have been funded by the Center. Also included are a handful of proposals known to have been rejected by the Center but later accepted for funding when resubmitted in revised form. The series likewise holds a compendium of cumulative data documenting work done by Center fellows from 1986-1994.
File includes quantitative and qualitative data on the fellowship program, including number of fellowships awarded, publications and presentations resulting from fellowships, and end-of-stay reports written by various fellows. Most of the data cover the years 1986-1994; end-of-stay reports document work done by fellows in 1992-1993.
Founded in 1977 by Peter Copek and fellow English professor Anne Taylor, the International Film Series screened independent and foreign films every weekend during the term for over twenty years. Largely through Copek, the film series was administered by the Humanities Development Program and the Center for the Humanities for the duration of its existence. Series IX contains detailed documentation of the film series' operation, including the selection and screening of specific films, the proceeds (and deficits) accrued by the screenings, and the series' advertisement and impact on campus. Where appropriate, date ranges reflect activities conducted over the course of a given academic year.
The Minority Education Office Records consist of one series: I. Casa Educacional Photograph Albums. One of the albums documents the National MEChA (Movimento Estudiantil Chicana/o de Aztlán) Conference held at OSU in 2004 and includes images of a protest march in support of Oregon farmworkers' right to unionize. An estimated 700 protestors marched from the OSU campus to a Taco Bell restaurant in north Corvallis and called for a boycott of the fast food franchise. Photographs of Benton County Commissioner Annabelle Jaramillo and PCUN (Pineros y Campesinos Unidos del Noroeste/Northwest Treeplanters and Farmworkers United) President Ramón Ramírez, both of whom participated in the march, are included in the album. The second album, Casa Educacional Memories, documents the 2003 ¡Si Se Pudo! graduation ceremony for Latino/Latina graduates and their families, campus events organized by Casa Educacional, and recruitment activities at local high schools.
The Rose Bowl Football Game Scrapbooks consist of two scrapbooks and ephemera pertaining to the 1942 Rose Bowl football game between Oregon State College and Duke University. The scrapbooks consist predominantly of newspaper clippings from newspapers in Oregon, North Carolina, and locales that the team passed through on their train trip to and from Durham, North Carolina. The clippings provide information on the team's travel to and from North Carolina, the game, and the homecoming celebration in Oregon. Ephemeral items such a train menus, event programs, and itineraries that have become separated from the scrapbook pages are also part of the collection.
Programs for the 1940 Oregon State versus University of Oregon (Civil War) and the 1941 Oregon State versus Stanford University football games are included in the collection.
The creator of the scrapbooks is not identified.
The Richard W. Gilkey Photographs consist of images made by Gilkey during his student years at Oregon State College. The photographs provide extensive documentation of student life and campus activities and include images of athletic facilities, events, athletes, and coaches; clubs, student organizations, fraternities, and sororities; dances and special events in the Memorial Union, such as the annual Christmas party; drama productions; student outings, such as canoeing on the Marys River; homecoming events; and commencement.
The collection includes images of the exteriors and interiors of many campus buildings. The Memorial Union, Library (Kidder Hall), Gill Coliseum, and Sackett Hall are well represented.
Of special note are a series of portraits of nine faculty made by Gilkey that were published as covers of the Oregon Stater alumni magazine in 1952-1953. Prints of these images made by Gilkey in 2005 are part of the collection. The Gilkey Photographs depict many students at Oregon State during the late 1940s and early 1950s; some, but not all, of the images of students are identified with their names.
Many of Gilkey's photographs were published in the Beaver yearbook, Oregon Stater alumni magazine, and Barometer campus newspaper as well as Paste Up at "State", the Tech Record, and Memorial Union and student organization publications. Paste Up at "State" was a pictorial magazine about students and student activities published by Oregon State students in November 1948.
The bulk of the collection is negatives. Most of the film negatives are 3.25 x 4.25 inches; the collection also includes 4x5 in negatives and a few individual frames of 120 film. Silver gelatin prints and digital prints are also part of the collection. Most of the prints were made in 2004-2005 for the exhibit.
Series I consists of photographs of the 1948 Oregon State track meet versus the University of Oregon.
Series II consists of photographs of basketball games.
The College Football photographs include images of several football games as well as halftime activities with the marching band and cheerleaders.
Image SpCF-054
shows Oregon State player Carpenter preventing Washington touchdown by knocking down a pass from Don O'Leary to Darold Falkey in the end zone.
Series IV consists of photographs of 1948 baseball games against the University of Washington and the University of Oregon.
The Spot News photographs document the student rally in support of basketball coach Slats Gill held in spring 1948 when the campus community learned that Gill was being considered for open coaching positions at UCLA and the University of Minnesota.
The Barometer photographs depict a variety of campus events and student activities including homecoming, student elections, international students, music groups, theater productions, and dances. The Freedom Train, which housed documents pertaining to United States history, visited Corvallis during its nationwide tour.
PuB-024 available online.
One image available online.
Series VII includes many of the images that were published in the 1948 Paste Up at "State" publication as well as images for other publications. The photographs document student activities and events as well as campus buildings.
Images PuX-146, PuX-148, and PuX-149
available online.
Copy negatives of print of unidentified woman.
Series VIII includes various images, including several images taken for the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. It also includes images of the first Memorial Union Camera Club exhibit.
Series IX consists primarily of group photographs of attendees at the dances and includes a few images of couples dancing.
The Memorial Union photographs depict Memorial Union officers and various activities and special events offered by the Memorial Union, including the annual Christmas party.
3 negatives
The Oregon Stater photographs document student activities and campus events. Many of the images were published in the alumni magazine. The photographs include images of homecoming events, commencement, and athletic facilities and events. Of special note are images of Oregon State faculty that were published on covers of the Stater in 1952-1953. Prints made by Gilkey in 2005 are included.
Published on cover of May 1948 Oregon Stater.
Published on cover of June 1948 Oregon Stater.
Published on cover of January 1949 Oregon Stater.
May 1949 cover.
Images PuO-068 and PuO-069 of graduates gathering in Memorial Union for procession available online.
PuO-072 published on cover of February 1950 issue.
Cover of March 1950 issue.
PuO-080 published on May 1950 cover.
June 1950 cover.
Published on cover of June 1951 Oregon Stater.
Published on cover of February 1952 Oregon Stater.
Photographs taken in 1952-1953; prints made in 2005.
Series XII consists of photographs taken by Gilkey for the Oregon State News Bureau and includes publicity images of athletes, coaches, and athletic events as well as students and student activities.
Baseball player.
Baseball player.
Gerald John ("Rick") Erickson, Kenneth Leroy Carpenter, Robert Henry Stolz, and Chuck Sauvin. Published in May 1949 Oregon Stater. One image available online.
Photographer kneeling in foreground. Published in 1951 Beaver yearbook, p. 112 and as image for 2005 exhibit poster.
Series XIII includes images of the exteriors and interiors of several campus buildings.
The campus views include several images of campus buildings and views after a snowstorm. The Corvallis landscape images were taken from a high point, perhaps Bald Hill.


Series XV consists of color transparencies of Oregon State College campus buildings and views, including construction of Gill Coliseum, and several images of Oregon State student, Marlyn Melson, at the Memorial Union.
Published on cover of May 1949 Oregon Stater.
Series XVI consists of documentary materials that include Gilkey's photographs, materials from the 2005 exhibit of Gilkey's photographs prepared by the Oregon State University Archives, and the original paper negative sleeves. The publication, Paste Up at "State" was published by Oregon State students as a pictorial magazine in November 1948. Paul E. Lee was editor and director; Richard Gilkey was photographer. Only one issue was published. It includes features on student social activities. The compact discs include images used in the 2005 exhibit of Gilkey photographs and in Gilkey's presentation during the Alumni Association's Golden Jubilee Reunion celebration in June 2005.
The papers consist of two series. Series one contains letters written to Nettie Spencer by William Barrett, a sailor on the bark Carrie Winslow. The letters describe Barrett's experiences on board the ship and at ports of call. They also describe the relationship between Spencer and Barrett. Several were written in 1884 and chronologically arranged; others are undated but were probably written at about the same time. Series two is a small scrapbook that contains programs of drama productions, musical and literary events, teachers institutes, Corvallis College commencements (1881 & 1882), and meetings of organizations. Most are from Corvallis and Portland and date from 1878 to 1897.
The Ellis Samuel Dement Photograph Collection consists of mounted photographic prints and photographic postcards assembled by Dement while he was a student at OAC. Most of the images depict either student groups or views of campus. Roughly half of the images held in this collection are 7 x 9 mounted photographs, and the majority of these were taken by W. S. Gardner of Corvallis. The other half of the collection consists of photographic postcards.
The mounted photographs are primarily portraits of various OAC athletic teams. Teams pictured include the 1909 basketball team, 1909 wrestling team, 1909 football team, and the champion 1909 intramural basketball team. The campus views included in the collection feature a number of buildings, including the Administration Building [Community Hall], Science Hall [Furman Hall], the Gymnasium [Gladys Valley Gymnastics Center], the Bandstand, Agronomy Building [Strand Agricultural Hall], and Mechanical Hall [Kearney Hall]. Campus buildings are identified by the building name used at the time the photograph was taken. In instances where the building name has changed, the name used at the time of the finding aid's publication appears in brackets.
Of particular note is a postcard reproduction of an image in the Alexander K. Chapman Photograph Collection (P235:06), depicting OAC cadets encamped at the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition in Seattle, Washington in 1909. The image shows the cadets' tents in front of the University of Washington’s oldest building, Denny Hall, which finished construction in 1895.
Pictured are Waldo Hall, Science Hall [Furman Hall], Gymnasium [Gladys Valley Gymnastics Center], Agronomy Building [Strand Agricultural Hall], Administration Building [Community Hall], and Mechanical Hall [Kearney Hall].
Posing with a basketball that reads "Northwest Collegiate Champions, 1909." Includes: Horton, Reed, Spires, Moore, Pugh, Hamilton, and Angel.
Posing with a football that reads "Pacific Coast Champions." Includes: Healer, Greenhaw, Harding, Dobbin, Norcross, Emily, Finn, Wolff, Cooper, Looney, Kelly Jamison, Pendergrass, Barber, Dunlap, Bennet, Rheinhardt, Gagnan, and Cady.
Duplicate of P224:04.
Assembled in front of the Administration Building [Community Hall]. This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
Image caption: "Class basketball champions, 1909 S.B." This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
Track team captain. This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
At the Alaska-Yukon-Pacific Exposition in front of University of Washington's Denny Hall, this is a photographic postcard of an image in the Alexander K. Chapman Photograph Collection (P235:06). This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
Science Hall [Furman Hall], the Gymnasium [Gladys Valley Gymnastics Center], and the Administration Building [Community Hall] can be seen in the background. This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
Pictured are the Administration Building [Community Hall], Bandstand, and Science Hall [Furman Hall]. This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
Pictured are Waldo Hall, Science Hall [Furman Hall], Gymnasium [Gladys Valley Gymnastics Center], Agronomy Building [Strand Agricultural Hall], Administration Building [Community Hall], and Mechanical Hall [Kearney Hall]. This is a postcard duplicate of image P224:01. This image is available online in Oregon Digital.
The Office of Multicultural Affairs Records document the establishment of the office in 1991 and its administration and programs under the first director, Phyllis Lee. The Records represent the many issues pertaining to ethnicity, gender, and multiculturism at Oregon State University in the 1990s and early 2000s as well as the extensive activities, both on- and off-campus, of Phyllis Lee.
Primarily made up of correspondence, Series I also contains newspaper clippings, notes, publications, and reports. This series documents interaction between Phyllis Lee and OSU administrative units, academic departments, campus cultural centers, Corvallis city government, and regional ethnic and racial advocacy organizations such the Urban League of Portland. Topics reflected in this series include requests for Lee’s intervention as a consultant and mediator, campus diversity initiatives, support for student participation in off-campus conferences, accreditation, presentations by visiting scholars and activists on subjects of racism and culture, outreach projects to minority communities, an assessment survey on campus climate, minority action plans from various OSU departments and colleges, and the Office of Multicultural Affairs’ coordination of conferences and events highlighting student diversity.
Series II consists of materials generated by various university committees, commissions, and advisory boards and is made up of meeting minutes, correspondence, notes, reports, and publications. Topics reflected in this series include hate-related activities on campus, the recruitment and retention of students and color, gender equity in the NCAA, the OSU 2007 strategic planning process, cross cultural outreach, diversity in course development, and response strategies to racial incidents.
Series III documents Office of Multicultural Affairs staff meetings and is primarily made up of notes, but also includes correspondence, meeting agendas, and flyers.
In addition to annual summaries of Office of Multicultural Affairs' and Phyllis Lee's activities, the reports in Series IV include status reports on ethnic and racial diversity at OSU and the Oregon University System, OSU strategic planning documents, harassment response guidelines, updates on diversity initiatives at OSU, and a survey study on campus climate in Oregon.
Series V documents Phyllis Lee’s participation in classroom instruction and proposals for the development of new academic programs and departments. This series contains correspondence, grant proposals, handouts, presentation notes, publications, and syllabi.
Series VI documents scholarship programs for ethnic and racial minorities offered by OSU, the Oregon University System, and private institutions. In addition to correspondence, there are also blank applications, flyers, meeting minutes, notes, reports, and statistical data in this series.
Series VII pertains to presentations made by Lee for campus departments, student organizations, orientation of new faculty members, public schools, state agencies, companies, and new student orientation programs. Also documenting conference addresses and panelist participation at public forums, this series consists of correspondence, flyers, publications, and speech notes.
The clippings in series VIII relate to the establishment of the office and Lee’s appointment as director, the Difference, Power, and Discrimination Program, the OSU Cultural Centers, incidents of racism and homophobia, and diversity education events on campus. The articles and editorials were clipped from the Daily Barometer, Corvallis Gazette-Times, and the Oregonian.
Series IX is made up of notes taken by Phyllis Lee recording various meetings and interviews with faculty of color on campus and OSU administrators.
The subject files in Series X are comprised of materials originating from a variety of off-campus organizations and governmental agencies oriented toward human rights, racial advocacy, social services, and educational equity. Also documented in this series are conferences and workshops held at OSU and off-campus that were not organized by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. Made up of correspondence, publications, reports, and notes, these files also explore minority student statistical profiles, Martin Luther King Jr. Service Day, state legislation, and other universities’ diversity plans.
In addition to guides produced by the Office of Multicultural Affairs for advising Native American and other students of color, the publications in series XI include flyers for presentations and forums on multicultural issues and a handbook on child care published by the State of Oregon with editorial comments by Lee.
Includes comments Lee made as a reviewer of the document.
Series XII consists of an an undergraduate honors thesis, Opening Minds and Opening Doors for Students of Color at OSU, detailing the organizational structure of the Office of Multicultural Affairs and its role in serving as a hub for diversity programs at the university.
Series XIII documents Lee’s involvement in non-OSU committees, professional associations, governmental bodies, and advisory councils. The organizations represented in this series are primarily state and regional entities oriented toward diversity and educational development. In addition to meeting minutes and correspondence, this series also contains reports, notes, newspaper clippings, and conference materials.
Series XIV pertains to complaints of racial and ethnic harassment from students at OSU and local high schools that were received by Phyllis Lee. Documenting situations both on campus and off, this series includes correspondence, flyers, incident reports, newspaper clippings, notes, sketches, and a banner.
The photographs (color prints and negatives) depict a performance of various international dances including the Chinese “dragon dance” in a grand opening ceremony commemorating the establishment of the Office of Multicultural Affairs in 1991.
The collection consists of six born digital recordings (4 audio; 2 video) of interviews with members of the Corvallis Indian-American community. Audio recordings were originally captured in *.mp3, video recordings were *.mov, and all files have been saved as preservation copies for each interview. All interviews held in the collection have been transcribed by Sravya Tadepalli, the interviewer and collection donor. Researcher access to both the collection's interviews and transcripts is available on site and online. Links to online audio recordings and transcripts are provided within the item-level description of this collection. All interviews were conducted in Corvallis, Oregon by Sravya Tadepalli, a student at the University of Oregon at the time she completed the project and with family living in Corvallis.
Interviewees include ten members of the Corvallis Indian-American community; four of the six interviews are with couples. Topics discussed include the interviewees' experiences growing up in India and immigration to the United States; experiences with education in both India and the United States; dealing with discrimination and bias; the challenges and rewards of living in the United States; religion; community service; issues of race and identity as Indian-Americans; and reflections on how they have changed as a result of living in Corvallis, Oregon.
All of the digital recordings of the interview are available online.
A set of six interviews featuring ten members of the Indian-American community in Corvallis, Oregon.
(01:08:55) In this interview, Muthukrishna and Kalyani Ramanujam talk about their families and memories of growing up in India, their educations and the experience of an arranged marriage, their immigration stories, their experience of life in Corvallis, as well as their time living in California, and their children. [Interview video and transcript available online]
(01:28:30) In this interview, Partha and Surya Lakkur discuss their lives growing up in India; their experiences with education in both India and the United States; dealing with discrimination and bias; and how they have changed as a result of living in Corvallis, Oregon. [Interview audio and transcript available online]
(01:07:12) In this interview, Jessie and Sam Karipalli talk about growing up in India and moving to the United States, touching on the challenges and rewards of living in the United States, religion, community service, and other issues. [Interview audio and transcript available online]
(01:29:31) In this interview, Eldurkar and Sucheta Bhaskar discuss their lives in India and their journey to the United States, particularly touching on issues of race and identity as Indian-Americans. [Interview audio and transcript available online]
(00:34:26) In this interview, Prasad Tadepalli talks about his family and experiences growing up and going to school in India, his journey toward becoming a computer science professor, his experiences as an immigrant in the United States, as well as his life in Corvallis, and his research. [Interview video and transcript available online]
(00:31:41) In this interview, Bella Bose talks about his experiences growing up and going to school in India and the challenges of going to school in the United States. He also discusses how the OSU computer science department has changed and grown since he arrived in 1980. [Interview audio and transcript available online]
The Donald Wesley Morse Photograph Album documents the student life of Don Morse at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) in 1917-1921 and his convalescence at the U.S. Veterans Hospital in Walla Walla, Washington in 1922-1923. The album includes photographs and images clipped from magazines and other publications. Formal portraits of faculty and students and numerous snapshots are represented in the album, which is well annotated with names and dates. Morse’s student years are reflected in numerous images of other OAC students, the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house (exterior and interior) and other fraternity members, debate team members and contests, baseball and football players, campus buildings and scenes, military cadets, and student activities. Images of outings, parties, the Rook-Sophomore Tug-of-War, and groups of students document Morse’s active student life.
The album includes a few images of his family, his wife, and his birthplace in Des Moines, Iowa.
The last portion of the album (about a quarter of the photographs) documents Morse’s time as a patient at the U.S. Veterans Hospital in Walla Walla. Images of Morse, other patients, the nurses and staff, as well as the facilities are included.
The collection includes a few photographic prints that are not affixed in the album.
Images from this collection have been digitized and are available in Oregon Digital.
The Speech Communication Department Records document speech instruction at Oregon State as well as speech, debate, and drama activities. The Records include orations and speeches, correspondence, reports, organization records, course materials, committee minutes, a scrapbook, and several photographs. Of special note are records of the Oregon State chapter of Delta Sigma Rho, the national honorary society for students in speech communications, and an Institute on Advanced Communications Skills for junior and senior high school English and Speech teachers offered at OSU in summer 1967. The photographs are of the Institute's participants.
The collection includes substantial materials pertaining to forensics and dramatic activities at Oregon State including orations and speeches; annual reports for debate squads during the 1930s through 1950s; and annual activities reports detailing the number of students participating, results of forensics competitions, plays performed, and number of attendees at dramatic productions. Materials pertaining to speech pathology and the Department's clinical activities, especially during the 1930s-1950s, are included in the records.
A significant portion of the microfilmed records (Subgroup 1) consist of the correspondence of Earl W. Wells and document Wells' activities as a faculty member and department chair and his participation in national, regional, and state-wide professional organizations. Some of C.B. Mitchell's correspondence is also included.


Subgroup 1 consists of microfilmed Speech Department records documenting speech, debate, and drama activities; the work of Earl. W. Wells as faculty member and department chair; and department administration. The records are primarily for the 1930s thru 1950s and include correspondence, reports, speeches, and orations.
Series I consists of the texts of orations given at contests by Oregon State students as well as students from other regional colleges and universities.
Series II consists of speeches presented by Oregon State students at forensics competitions.
Contest for freshmen extempore speaking.
Series III includes reports of each debating season for the 1930s through mid 1950s documenting the members of the men's and women's debate squads, the number of debates each squad participated in, and the number of debates that were won by Oregon State squads. The series also includes information about the participation of Oregon State squads in the annual West Point Debates.
Series IV consists of syllabi, correspondence, and related materials pertaining to speech training in AST 111.
Series V consists of documents of the Intercollegiate Forensic Association of Oregon, which included representatives from colleges and universities throughout the state. The Association sponsored forensics contests and activities.
Series VI consists of annual reports of dramatics and forensics activities at Oregon State, including the number of participating students; results of forensics competitions; plays performed; and number of attendees at dramatic productions.
Series VII consists of correspondence received and sent by Earl W. Wells in his role as a Speech Department faculty member as well as department chair. The series also includes some personal correspondence for Wells, such as that for the Corvallis Rose Society.
Series VIII consists of department correspondence arranged as reader's files. The correspondence documents the administration of the department, primarily during the 1950s and 1960s.
Series IX consists of a report documenting the speech, debate, and drama activities of the department during the 1920s and 1930s.
Subgroup 2 consists of Speech Communication Department Records in paper form documenting the curriculum, policies and procedures, faculty, and student activities of the department. Of special note are records of Delta Sigma Rho, the national honorary society for students in speech communications, and the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) Institute in English on Advance Communications Skills held at Oregon State in 1967.
Series I consists of correspondence received and sent from the department and documents the policies and procedures of the department, facilities, faculty, and courses. The fall letter to the Speech Department from Earl W. Wells, Department Chair, introduces new and returning faculty, summarizes department policies and procedures, and lists advising responsibilities.
Series II consists of records of the Oregon State University chapter of Delta Sigma Rho, the national honorary society for students in speech communications. The records include constitutions, correspondence, membership lists, initiation rituals, and financial records.
Series III consists of research notes on the history of the department compiled by Thurston Doler. The notes include correspondence as well as photocopies from the Beaver yearbook. Several short essays on the history of the Speech Department are also part of the series.
Series IV consists of minutes of department meetings and compilations of the minutes of the Executive Committee and the Department Staff. These compilations consists of copies of the minutes that have been clipped and re-assembled by topic. A list of topics is in the front of the first folder for each. The Executive Committee minutes include materials relevant to the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) Institute at OSU in 1967.
Series V consists of the records of a National Defense Education Act (NDEA) Institute in English on Advance Communication Skills offered at Oregon State University. The 8-week course, from June 26 through August 18, 1967, was attended by 32 junior and senior high school English and Speech teachers. The program focused on the multiple and interdisciplinary aspects of human communication skills. The records include the proposal, plan of operation, and final report; course materials; correspondence; brochures and clippings; lists of participants; and a group photograph of the participants.
Series VI consists of the records of department committees, student organizations, and conferences and includes materials pertaining to forensics at Oregon State during the 1930s-1950s.
Series VII includes the program for the Model United Nations of the Far West 40th annual session; clippings; and a newsletter to theater departments at Oregon community colleges regarding a theater festival.
Series VIII consists of reports, primarily from the 1950s and early 1960s, documenting the academic programs and activities of the Speech Department.
Series IX consists of a scrapbook assembled by the Speech Communication Department documenting Oregon State University theater productions, KBVR-TV programs, workshops, department faculty news, campus free-speech regulations, and a performance by a visiting San Francisco Mime Troupe. The scrapbook is predominantly newspaper clippings; it also includes brochures and flyers. The scrapbook was originally housed in a three-ring binder.
Series X consists of materials documenting speech courses and activities pertaining to live television. The series also includes biographical information for Paul Knoll, a Speech Department faculty member from 1927 until his death in 1957.
The Ina Rihani Photographs consist of snapshots of Monroe, Oregon, taken or assembled by Rihani. Monroe is a small city (population 617 in 2010 census) in south Benton County, Oregon. The photographs depict businesses, schools, parks, historic features, and homes in and near Monroe. The collection also includes a photograph of Rihani's son, Cedar Sarmad Rihani.
The collection includes both color prints and 126 film color negatives.
The African American Railroad Porters Oral History Collection consists of thirty oral history interviews collected from 1983-1992 by filmmaker Michael Grice with retired African American railroad porters. The interviews were originally recorded to open reel tapes, which are described in this finding aid. In the mid-2010s, the Oregon African American Railroad Porters Oral History Preservation Project, funded by a grant from the Oregon Cultural Trust, digitized Grice's interviews and had them professionally transcribed. A dedicated web portal for this content was subsequently created and launched on October 12, 2016.
The narrators featured in Grice's interviews are: Lawrence Alberti, Daniel Allen, James Brooks, Eddie Butler, George Canada, Vernon Gaskin, Si Greene, Congressman Augustus Hawkins, E. Shelton Hill, Cliff Jackson, Hazel Murray, Alfred Richardson, Walter Reynolds, Willie Rice, Otto Rutherford, Cleophas Smith, Jimmy Sullivan, Lonnie Wilson and Woodrow E. Wilson. More information about each of these individuals is available below in the item descriptions.
VHS and DVD copies of Grice's film, "Black Families and the Railroad in Oregon and Northwest" are also included in the collection. The production has been digitized and made available online.
Interviews in this series have been digitized and made available online. Specific interview sessions are linked below.
Lawrence Alberti worked as a Red Cap for the railroad. He started in 1936 and worked until threat of the draft in the forties caused him to volunteer for the armed services. He discusses life as a supply sergeant in Washington, Louisiana, New York and Europe. Alberti returned to civilian life in 1946 and went back to work as a Red Cap. He describes the duties and hours of Red Caps and the practice of workers stealing baggage tags to avoid paying baggage charges. Alberti eventually quit the railroad and went into the postal service instead.
Daniel Allen was born in Muldoon, Texas in 1899. His railroad experience began in 1915 as a “sniper” caring for a stretch of railroad track in one area. The crew was racially mixed. Allen recalls working as cotton harvesters with his family until they ran out of money in Lubbock, Texas. He then worked as a cement worker for a contractor and went on strike with six or seven other workers to demand a raise. Soon after he got a job as a chair car porter on the Santa Fe railroad but was fired when the contractor he had worked took revenge by calling the railroad about him. Allen then worked at the Giles Lake shipyard until he was hired by the Union Pacific in 1945. The pay was so low that his sons still working at the shipyard helped to pay his bills. He retired in 1967. Allen also describes racism in Portland Oregon and the brotherhood he felt with his railroad co-workers.
James Brooks was originally born James Thompson in Mississippi. He moved to Portland in 1929 where his uncle, Mr. Green, was a Pullman porter. Brooks discusses the poverty at the time which made racial differences less apparent, as many white residents in the area had no jobs at all. Brooks talks about the white and black communities in Portland co-existing because the black community was not an economic or social threat to the white community. At the time, Brooks says the black population in the entire state of Oregon was only between one or two thousand persons, mostly concentrated in Portland. Brooks talks about his work as a chair car porter and the hierarchy of positions on the train, with waiters at the top and porters at the bottom. Brooks compares this hierarchy to the hierarchy of slavery where house slaves were viewed as above others, and discusses how this hierarchy continued into post-slavery life. Brooks also explains why porters suffered more abuse from passengers than waiters did, and the lack of recourse for railroad workers. Brooks describes an underground system of mentors and family-like bonds among railroad workers, even with the hierarchy.
In this recording several retired railroad workers recall their experiences. Many relate stories about working on special trains, which were lucrative in terms of tips, and not easy to get chosen to serve on. One speaker describes being treated well by passengers on a train full of important Mississippians, one of which stood up for the workers when a white steward tried to refuse them time to eat. Eddie Butler describes black employees being reprimanded for taking offense at racial slurs, and his philosophy of diligently doing his work so he could more safely stand up for himself when being mistreated on the job. Lonnie Wilson relays his experience serving on a special train for the Mormon Tabernacle Choir and the Harriman special train. Wilson also discusses being on a train trapped in snow for four days and the measures taken to care for the passengers, as well as his experiences as a stationary pantry man.
George Canada worked on the railroad for 41 years. In this brief interview he describes the differences between waiters, cooks, and porters and says the work was enjoyable and he was treated fairly.
Vernon Gaskin was born in 1908 and raised in Cheyenne, Wyoming. His parents were pioneers in the state, being the only black family in the area for many years. He recalls moving to Portland in 1927 and discusses the racial segregation encountered there. He first visited Portland in 1925 after joining the Union Pacific. He went on a trip around the world as a waiter in 1926, then continued with the railroad. He discusses meeting his wife in church and his habit of going to the closest church in every town he stayed in on the railroad. Gaskin switched to the Southern Pacific in 1933. He describes the many unexpected duties of dining car workers, such as nursing sick passengers and dealing with emergencies, and the long hours and working conditions. Gaskin also talks about segregation on the train, both in physical spaces and in the types of jobs and wages available to black workers.
Si Greene was born in Arkansas in the late 1910s and moved to Portland at eight years old. He describes growing up in Portland and organizing the Rockets basketball team with other kids from his church after a helpful reverend demanded the Y allow black children to use their facilities. Greene also relates incidences of confrontation and conflict between himself and co-workers and higher-ups at the railroad.
Si Greene discusses working as a Red Cap from March of 1940 to July 8th, 1970, when he retired and began working for Crown Zellerbach. Greene describes discrimination in which railroad jobs were closed for black employees, such as engineers and brakemen. There is also discussion about the issue of “service-oriented” jobs being less open to black persons as blacks in the sixties began to avoid such jobs and whites took the jobs as the pay was increased. Greene also talks on the benefits of the railroad unions that he and his father were members of. His father was a member of the Pullman porters union from about 1926. Greene also lists some of his hobbies.
In this recording Si Greene gives his opinion on the changes in the “job concept” of the railroad, with higher pay and more white persons accepting menial jobs. He discusses his feelings that the youth of the day do not have the same work ethic, and feels they are unwilling to learn. Greene also reflects on the cultural habit of black Americans to go by descriptive nicknames such as “Big Chappy” and “Old Good’n” rather than their names. He also describes his philosophies on dealing with money and conflicts, based on things his mentors taught him. Greene mentions there was a high percentage of both non-commission and commissioned officers coming out of the armed services among Red Caps.
Congressman Augustus Hawkins was born on August 31st, 1907 in Shreveport, Louisiana. He served in Congress and the California State Assembly for 56 years; 28 years in each. Hawkins gives some background information on his family and recalls moving to Los Angeles as a young teenager and relates the issues he faced due to having a white complexion in a black setting during times of segregation. He recalls important people visiting and staying at the family home when he was a growing up, such as Booker T. Washington. Hawkins describes his mother’s influence on his values and how his father instilled in him that he would have to be successful in life by his own efforts. He also recalls religious family life on Sundays and the Depression’s effect on the family and on his choice to attend University of California, Los Angeles instead of University of California at Berkeley, and to earn a degree in economics instead of engineering.
In this second recording of Augustus Hawkins, Hawkins talks about banding together with six or eight others at UCLA after recognizing a need for leadership in dealing with the problem of unequal opportunities in the job market. Civic jobs controlled by government officials were not available to black persons at the time. The city administration in Los Angeles was also corrupt. The group decided the best thing to do was choose one of them to run for office. Hawkins was chosen in the group by process of elimination. Hawkins discusses loyalty of black Americans to the Republican Party persisting into the mid-1930s, at which time many began to favor Franklin Delano Roosevelt. With the help of the UCLA group, Hawkins ran for California State Assembly and won by about 1500 votes. He describes the campaign and their focus on health, housing and jobs, outlining legislation he sponsored in the California legislature, such as the Fair Employment Act and opening civic jobs to minorities and women. He also fought for recognition and spots in the leadership in the labor movement.
In this third recording of Augustus Hawkins he talks about his allies in the California State Assembly, including railroad employees such as A. Philip Randolph. Hawkins also discusses issues such as housing and the successes and failures of his California State Legislature work. Hawkins then relates some key events and legislation from his time in the U.S. House of Representatives. He describes strong support from the Kennedy administration and discusses Employment and training legislation, the 1965 Voting Rights Act, the Equal Employment Opportunity Act, known as Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Area Redevelopment Act, the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act, the Job Training Partnership Act, federal aid for education, assistance for non-English speaking groups and people with disabilities, and development of childcare centers throughout the country. Hawkins expresses his views about the issues still needing attention, such as poverty, unequal educational opportunities and more. He gives advice for young people about education and opportunities.
E. Shelton Hill was born in Indian Territory in what is now Oklahoma, where his father was working as an interpreter. During college in Kansas, Hill held summer jobs as a waiter in local hotels. Hill was recruited by a friend to join the railroad. He tells the story of his recruitment and working for the railroad every summer during college. Hill recalls the Golden West Hotel in Portland, the second largest black hotel in the country. He also discusses the Oregon constitution’s exclusion laws which prevented black persons from living in the state if they were unemployed and kept the black population low for many years even when the railroad began employing black persons. Hill describes the positions available to black workers on the railroad and the hierarchy among those positions, as well as the jobs that were unobtainable, regardless of skill level. Hill then describes social life in the black community of Portland, including women’s groups.
In this second recording of E. Shelton Hill, Hill talks about the variation in working conditions on the trains, especially sleeping accommodations. He discusses unions and how many of the members were summer workers who had less to fear if they were fired in retaliation for joining. Hill recalls his experiences in the Air Force, which he volunteered for due to his draft status. Hill also talks about his schooling and his involvement as a board member on the Urban League of Portland. Hill talks about some of the issues the black population in Portland faced in the 1940s, such as public accommodations, housing and employment.
Cliff Jackson was born in Marshall, Missouri in 1900. He spent 38 years working for the railroad. When he first joined he thought he was going to Portland Maine but later was glad to be in Oregon instead. Jackson worked as a dining car waiter before becoming a Red Cap. He describes the duties of each. He recalls being a waiter on a special train with President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Jackson recalls the Local 465 Dining Car Waiters union and going to meetings despite the risk of getting fired. He describes the social and entertainment life during time spent at various different stops along railroad trips. Jackson also recalls the advent of baggage carts for passenger use as the end of the Red Cap career.
In this second recording of Cliff Jackson, he briefly talks about his parents and siblings, then talks about the differences between train service when he was an employee and modern trains, and asserts that the service and atmosphere have declined over the years. Jackson describes working for the Democratic Party in Kansas City where he had to pay black persons to get them to vote in the 1920s. He recalls waiting tables at a place President Harry S. Truman and his wife went to and visiting with Bess Truman years later. Jackson gives advice to young people in light of the changes in service industry occupations. He also compares the red light district of Portland in the past to present and discusses the lack of sexual health knowledge when he was young. Jackson then reminisces of his years working in the hospital’s cancer ward.
Willie Jenkins first started working for the railroad in 1939 as a summer job in Mississippi. He had two years of college. He came to Portland in 1942 and worked as a waiter on the train until retiring in 1979. Jenkins talks about improvements made by the union, but also corruption of some union officers who were stealing union the dues they collected. He also describes sleeping conditions in the dining car and recalls the story of meeting his wife on the train when she was a passenger. Jenkins recounts some incidences when people were hit and killed by trains he was working on, and the experience of being trapped on a train in a flood. Jenkins also talks about service related jobs being taken over by white employees and his views that black youths of the day are unwilling to learn their jobs and don’t show interest in their work. He advises young people to get a good education and to consider working in the culinary business.
Hazel Murray was born into a sharecropper family in North Carolina on August 20th, 1913. Though he couldn’t attend school past second grade, he learned the fundamentals of electrician work and worked as a contractor in the south before being drafted into the Army in 1943. Stationed in Vancouver, Hazel visited Portland Oregon and later settled there after meeting his wife in the area. He discusses “white trade only” signs in Vancouver that angered the non-white solders, who “wrecked” downtown Vancouver on a Saturday night. In 1945 Hazel left the army and worked at in the shipyards for six months before joining the Union Pacific Railroad. Hazel describes the “miserable” working conditions as a railroad fourth cook. He retired after thirty years in 1975.
In this short collection of excerpts, various speakers recount their experiences. Hazel Murray tells the story of being shipped to Vancouver by the Army with 500 black troops and the racism encountered both on the train and upon arrival in the city of Vancouver. Other topics include changes in racism in Portland, Oregon and Cleophas Smith’s recollections of growing up during the Depression.
In this recording several retired railroad workers give their reactions of Michael Grice’s film and relate some of their experiences as railroad workers. A former Pullman porter discusses working with the Union Pacific in the early forties and changes in certain rules and the improvement in salaries after the formation of the Brotherhood of the Sleeping Car Porters. James Sullivan discusses secretly transporting union literature before unions were allowed, and a Red Cap, a dining car worker, a pantry man and a cook share experiences of working and living conditions on the railroad, including incidents or racism and segregation.
In this recording, retired railroad workers continue discussing conditions on the railroad. A cook describes working on train cars infested with chinches (bedbugs). There is some discussion about white men with no bartending experience being hired as bartenders while there were black workers who knew the job but wouldn’t be given the title or pay for it. There is also mention of stewardesses who were hired to care for passengers’ babies onboard, but were engaging in prostitution instead.
Willie Rice was born in Starkville, Mississippi on December the 15th, 1921. He began working for the railroad in 1944 as a waiter. He describes having to put up with racial slurs and the threat of being fired unfairly and without recourse. He was fired from the Great Northern Railroad for refusing to buy a bottle of liquor for a white steward. Rice describes trying to work as a welder prior to the railroad and having no success due to racism. One plant hired him but demoted him to janitor, and at another plant the white workers did not want to work with him, so he had to quit join the railroad. Rice explains the amount of money made was dependent on tips, so suffering racial slurs calmly was important. He details the duties of a waiter and challenges on the job. Rice asserts that the 1971 Amtrak merger made conditions worse for employees and also notes that black employment on the trains went from 99% to less than 50% after the merger.
In this second recording of Willie Rice he describes his survival strategy on the job of not getting too close to co-workers who he felt would take advantage of him. He also discusses his daughter’s education at the all-black Howard University and his reasons for choosing an all-black school. He gives advice to young black men and women in regards to their black identity, education and efforts in life. Rice reflects on the abuse he put up with to stay with the railroad and the pros and cons of the job. Rice also discusses a class action lawsuit against the Burlington Northern Railroad, their failure to follow through on their promises, and his unsuccessful attempts to get training and settlement money that the lawsuit was designed to achieve.
Alfred Richerdson was born in Kansas City, Missouri on September 28th, 1916 and moved to Philadelphia at three months old. He talks about his mother working in the Pennsylvania school system at that time. In 1941 Richerdson went to work for the Union Pacific as a waiter. He gives his first impressions of Portland, that the black population was so small that some people had never seen a black person. He describes the racism encountered in Portland and the daily life and hours of a railroad waiter. Richerdson recalls when one of the states declared it unsanitary for waiters to sleep in the dining car, and after much legislation railroads had to provide a dormitory. The last month he worked for the railroad the rules changed to allow black persons to apply for the position of steward. Richerdson also mentions the Railroad Retirement Act and a Streamliner called the City of Portland that hired only light-skinned black employees.
Otto Rutherford was born in February of 1911. His parents had come to Portland in 1897, his father and uncle coming to Portland as hotel barbers. Rutherford began working for the Union Pacific in 1934 as a summer job between school sessions. He describes the tall and short crews and uniforms on the railroad and relays an incident where a white woman temporarily lost her diamond ring and investigators searched the crew, but not the passengers. He noted that the crew was always seen as guilty, and defending yourself could get you fired. Rutherford was a member of a union of cooks and waiters that met secretly in Holiday’s Barbershop in Portland. He discusses the values of organizing and the fear of being fired for union activities. Rutherford also discusses work hours and income and describes several unpleasant incidents on the railroad, as well as the family-like bond among co-workers. Also in this recording, he describes growing up in Portland when there were very few black residents.
Cleophas Smith was born in Mississippi on December 1st, 1916. He grew up in Chicago and began to work for the Union Pacific Railroad as a waiter in 1942. He discusses growing up during the Depression and the sudden effects on his family’s lifestyle, the contrast of racism in Chicago versus Portland Oregon, voluntarily joining a railroad union, becoming familiar with working for tips, being trained on the job by fellow co-workers, the duties of the job, the uniform, and the hierarchy among railroad waiters, which was based on age, experience and seniority. Smith also recounts an incident where he and his railroad crew banded together to defend a fellow crewmember who was being kicked off the train by a steward.
In this recording Cleophas Smith, Hazel Murray, Lawrence Alberti and Jimmy Sullivan discuss discrimination in the American armed forces, such as being unable to get treated in Federal hospitals as black soldiers. They also have a lively discussion about politics, including President Ronald Reagan, low voter turn-out of Democrats, and the views of white voters. [Note: the interviewees are not specifically identified within the interview]
Jimmy Sullivan was born in San Antonio, Texas on April 24th, 1906. He served in US Army in chemical warfare from 1942 to 1945. As a young man, Sullivan worked a variety of service related jobs in Texas until following his brother to Portland in 1929. He lists the few jobs that were open to black men and women at the time. He began working as a dining car waiter in 1949 and retired in 1969. He details his experience of being away from home for work, balanced with the benefit of many days off to spend with family. He was a member of a secret Railroad union before the Local 465 dining car union was formed openly, which he joined. Sullivan defines the various issues dining car workers faced on the job. He also discusses customer loyalty and working on specialty trains and streamliners.
Lonnie Wilson was born in Paris, Texas on October the 23rd, 1906. He reflects on memories and the character of “Old Good’n,” Michael Grice’s grandfather who worked on the railroad as well. Wilson’s parents were railroad people; his mother was a matron at the Santa Fe Frisco station in Paris, Texas and his father was a porter starting in 1917 on the Frisco line. Wilson describes working for a private family, the Scott family, from 1925 until 1941 when he left for the railroad. Wilson also recalls working as field executive for Boy Scouts and serving in the US infantry before coming back to the railroad in Portland in 1945. There he started out operating the jitney, selling sandwiches, coffee, milk, fruit and candy in coach, and then worked on the dining car.
Woodrow E. Wilson was born in Dallas, Texas on January 13th in 1924. His mother placed him and his siblings in an all-black orphanage home in Gilmer, Texas where he stayed until he was fourteen. At seventeen he moved in with his half-brother’s family in Portland Oregon. He joined the Navy in 1942 and joined the Union Pacific Railroad in Portland when he returned to civilian life in 1946. Wilson describes working first as a fourth cook, then third cook, and finally second cook, and describes the duties of each level. An unknown speaker in the recording tells stories about waiters making fun of him as a dishwasher on the train. Wilson talks about working at a hospital for four years and about working on special trains and his involvement with the association of chefs in Portland. He relays passenger feedback about the food served on the train. Wilson also discusses the pros and cons of railroad work and recalls getting trapped on a train in a 1948 snowstorm.
Written, directed and produced by Michael Grice and hosted by Tim Reid, this film makes use of many of the oral history interviews described in Series 1 to tell the story of African American railroad porters in the Pacific Northwest. The VHS tape held in this collection has been digitized and made available online.
The Emily McFarland Photograph Collection consists of two photographic prints of the Oregon Agrcultural College campus assembled by McFarland. One of the images depicts Apperson (now Kearney) Hall with snowfall around it. The other is of a flood on lower campus. The flood photograph was taken by Ray Robertson.
The Students' Army Training Corps (SATC) Records document the U.S. Army's training program at Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) during World War I. The records include financial reports and contracts between the War Department and OAC; correspondence pertaining to equipment purchases; commissary and mess hall reports documenting housing and meal arrangements for the SATC participants; information on the courses offered, lists of instructors, and registration statistics; and rosters of SATC participants.

