The Jules Bledsoe papers consists of manuscripts collected by Jules (Julius) Bledsoe during the course of his musical career. These papers contain correspondence, diaries, financial papers, photographs, music, publicity materials, and other printed materials from his life and work.
The Rufus Columbus Burleson papers contains manuscripts of Reverend Burleson, former president of Baylor University. This collection consists primarily of personal correspondence and literary productions such as sermons, students’ essays, newspaper clippings, class rosters, and notes. Financial papers, legal documents, and a family photo album are also included.
The Waco Boating and Fishing Club records consist of manuscripts collected from 1890 to 2002. These papers contain correspondence, financial papers, legal documents, literary productions, and other printed materials.
BU Records: Baylor Historical Society consist of manuscripts generated by the society and a few people outside the society. The records contain correspondence, financial papers, literary productions, and legal materials.
The [Waco] Branch Davidians: Mark Swett collection consists of materials collected by Mark Swett concerning the Branch Davidians. This collection includes personal correspondence, photographs, pamphlets, books, audio recordings, and secondary literature of the Branch Davidians and their key leaders. There is a particular emphasis on David Koresh throughout the collection.
The [Waco] United Daughters of the Confederacy: Mary West Chapter records consist of manuscripts collected from 1866-1996. These papers contain correspondence, literary productions, financial papers, and scrapbook materials.
The [Waco] United Confederate Veterans: Pat Cleburne Camp records consist of manuscripts collected from 1865-1937. These papers contain correspondence, financial papers, legal documents, literary productions, photographic materials, oversized materials, and other printed materials.
The T. Coleman papers consist of a military pass given to Coleman on 23 January 1863 to go to a nearby Mississippi town.
The A.W. Dunn papers consists of manuscripts relating to Dunn’s pension for service in the Confederate army during the American Civil War. These papers contain correspondence and pension applications.
The Nathan B. Holder papers consist of letters Holder wrote home during the American Civil War, plus muster rolls during his imprisonment in 1864.
The John Nathaniel Henderson papers consist of manuscripts about John Nathaniel Henderson, in the form of correspondence and eulogies.
The [Waco] Branch Davidians: Amo Paul Roden papers contain books, sermons, and printed materials collected by influential Branch Davidian Amo Paul Bishop Roden. Particular emphasis is placed on explaining the Davidians’ and Branch Davidians' theology and Roden’s personal investigation of the Waco Siege of 1993.
The Parker Family-Fort Parker collection consists of manuscripts generated and collected by Ernest Connally for his research on Fort Parker and the Parker Family. The collection contains correspondence, legal documents, literary productions, photographic materials, and artifacts.
The Independence Historical Society records consist of manuscripts authored by or about the Independence Historical Society and historic preservation in Washington County. These papers contain correspondence, financial, legal, literary, and photographic materials.
The Smith’s-Turner’s Mississippi Artillery records include an account book kept by the battery during the American Civil War of equipment issued to the men, plus several general orders and other notes.
The [Waco] New Hope Baptist Church records consist of correspondence, legal, financial, and literary manuscripts generated by the church members, along with photographs and other printed materials.
The Richard Coke papers consist of correspondence, legal, financial, literary, and scrapbook manuscripts, plus photographs of former Texas governor Richard Coke.
The Isaac Parks papers, containing a diary and various letters, are a rare personal look at the Texas home front during the American Civil War and Reconstruction after the war.
The BU Records: O.H. Cooper contain personal correspondence, a financial ledger, three books of letters, and printed materials collected by former Baylor President Oscar Henry (O. H.) Cooper.
The Robert Emmett Bledsoe Baylor papers are a collection of personal correspondence, legal documents, reminiscences, and biological entries concerning Judge Baylor. Most of the material deals with family issues and Baylor’s interactions with other Texas Baptists.
The William Carey Crane papers contain personal correspondence, financial documents, legal documents, literary productions, and photographic materials belonging to the former president of Baylor University.
The John Ireland papers contain personal correspondence, land deeds, and literary productions pertaining to former Texas Governor John Ireland and his properties in Jones County, Texas.
The George Washington Truett papers contains personal correspondence, literary productions, photographs, films, and audio recordings pertaining to G. W. Truett, a Baptist minister in the early twentieth century.
The Thomas Terry Connally papers include the Senator’s personal correspondence, Congressional speeches, newspaper clippings, and photographs. The collection focuses mainly on Connally’s political career.
The Society of Southwest Archivists records consist of manuscripts that chronicle the regional archival organization's history since the early 1970's. These records include correspondence, financial documents, legal documents, literary productions, and photographic materials that all recount the society's annual meetings, committee activities, and works pertaining to the general membership.
The Kate Harrison Friend papers consist of correspondence, literary manuscripts, scrapbooks, and photographs. The majority of the letters were to Kate Harrison Friend, philanthropist of Waco.
The Harry Gillett papers consist of a letter, postcards, and photos, mostly documenting the tornado that struck Waco, Texas, on May 11, 1953.
The Tracy Early papers contains professional and personal materials pertaining to newspaper and magazine articles written by Early, correspondence, diaries, photographs, school work, books, and sermons.
The Francisco Banda papers include documents about Francisco Banda in relation to a conflict with his landlord, Clark Herring.
One letter from Ben Milam to Richard Pryor regarding the settling of Texas.
The [Waco] Daughters of the American Revolution: Elizabeth Gordon Bradley records contain materials concerning the organization’s activities in the McLennan County area. These include minutes, scrapbooks, video tapes, yearbooks, programs, clippings, handbooks, and directories.
The Dr. William Benjamin Worth Watkins papers consist of correspondence by Dr. Watkins and Nancy Ellen Taylor. The majority of the letters are between Dr. Watkins and Nancy Ellen Taylor, who married in 1884.
[Waco] Daughters of the American Revolution: Henry Downs Chapter records contain materials from the organization’s activities in the McLennan County area from 1901 to the mid-2000s. These include correspondence, minutes, scrapbooks, historical essays, yearbooks, programs, clippings, handbooks, and directories.
The Matthew Ellenberger papers contain Ellenberger’s research notes and correspondence as well as literary publications concerning Albert C. Horton, Thomas Walker, and Jack Jouett.
The Benajah Harvey Carroll papers consist of documents related to the life of Benajah Harvey Carroll. The papers include correspondence, financial records, and literary productions regarding the various positions Carroll held throughout his life.
The Lydia Ann English Guyler letter is a single letter between Mrs. Lydia A. Guyler from General Sam Houston, in response to Mrs. Guyler’s request for Houston to name her daughter.
The Bolt Family Homestead and Legion Valley Indian Massacre collection contains a scrapbook about an 1868 Indian raid on several families in Llano County, Texas.
BU Records: Baylor Cadets consist of correspondence, legal documents, and literary productions produced in connection with the Baylor Cadets, a university-sponsored military preparation program.
The Hannibal "Joe" Lucas Jaworski papers include correspondence, literary productions, books, and photographic materials related to his service in World War II and his response to the Waco Tornado of 1953.
The Baylor-Carrington Family papers consist of correspondence, financial and legal documents, literary productions, books, photographs, artifacts, and scrapbooks pertaining to the Baylor and Carrington families. The collection spans from the American Revolution to the mid-1900s.
The Eleanor McLerran DeLancey collection contains a scrapbook relating to Eleanor's service in the Women's Army Corps (WAC) during World War II.
The Gordon Kidd Teal papers consist of school materials, personal materials, professional materials, and awards accumulated by Dr. Gordon Kidd Teal, a famous twentieth century scientist who graduated from Baylor University in 1927.
The Huston-Tillotson University records consist of correspondence and financial documents from Tillotson College as University President Mary Elizabeth Branch tried to keep the college open during the Great Depression.
The Henry Trantham papers consist of documents generated and collected by Henry Trantham. The papers contain correspondence, administrative and academic materials, and other loose materials related to Baylor University and the Greek and Classics Departments, the Southwest Athletic Conference, and the Rhodes Scholarship program.
The Olive McGehee Denson papers include literary productions, photographic materials, and scrapbooks.
The Charles Wellborn papers contain sermons and other materials primarily from Charles Wellborn's time as pastor of Seventh and James Baptist Church in Waco, Texas.
The Bertie Routh Barron papers contains correspondence, financial documents, literary productions and photographic materials pertaining to the life of Bertie Routh Barron, particularly the time she spent at Baylor Female College.
The [Waco] Calvary Baptist Church records consists of literary documents created by church members including church publications and a directory.
The Raymond E. Biles collection consists primarily of newspaper clippings covering the educational desegregation era in Texas from 1956-1973. Also included is correspondence to Mr. Biles and other materials relating to his role as an adviser to the Waco Citizen’s Advisory Committee, which was tasked with reviewing local desegregation policies.
The [[Waco] First Baptist Church records consists of correspondence, literary documents, and financial records that pertain to or are associated with the First Baptist Church of Waco.
The BU Records: Philomathesian Literary Society consist of literary and legal productions, financial documents, and correspondence generated during their period of existence at Baylor University. These records include roll books, minutes books, general business records, library records, their constitution, contest records, and records on their fight with the Erisophian Literary Society from 1912-1913.
The BU Records: Adelphian Theological Society consists of documents about activities associated with the Society at Baylor University. The records group contains correspondence, financial records, legal documents, and ledgers that reflect how the Society operated.
The Francis Gevrier Guittard papers contain the personal papers of Dr. Francis Gevrier Guittard, a prominent history professor who served Baylor University for much of the early twentieth century.
The Gildersleeve-Du Congé collection includes plate glass negatives of photographs taken in and around Waco, Texas, by noted photographer Fred A. Gildersleeve.
The [Waco] Evangelia Settlement records consist of correspondence, legal, financial, literary manuscripts generated by the settlement or written about the settlement along with scrapbooks that contain newspaper clippings and photographs.
The Lula Pace collection contains student notebooks and topographical maps owned by Lula Pace, a graduate of the University of Chicago who went on to serve as a science professor at Baylor University.
The Isabella M. Henry papers contain correspondence, legal documents, literary productions, and photographs of Isabella M. Henry pertaining to her service in the Women's Army Corps (WAC) and Women's Army Auxiliary Corps (WAAC) during World War II.
The Marvin C. Griffin papers include both written and recorded materials pertaining to Reverend Marvin Griffin's ministerial research and sermons, his political involvement, and his leadership in the Baptist Convention on the state and national level.
The [Waco] Memorial Baptist Church records consist of the church's correspondence, financial, legal, and scrapbook materials, from the inception of the church to its closing.
The Roxie Henderson papers contain personal items and collected materials of Roxie Henderson. Henderson was a Baylor University graduate who served during World War I as an American Red Cross nurse.
The Kenneth Hazen Aynesworth papers consist of family materials, correspondence, literary productions, collected materials, and medical records collected by Kenneth Hazen Aynesworth, a local doctor who gave the first donation to The Texas Collection in 1923.
and a former professor at T.S.T.C.
The [Waco] Branch Davidians: FBI Letters and Negotiation Transcripts collection contains copies of letters written to the FBI during and after the Branch Davidian siege as well as transcripts of negotiations between the Branch Davidians and the FBI.
The R. H. Smith papers contain three letters, one of which has a typed transcription. Several incidents described in the letters relate to the Texas Revolution.
The Wichita Falls Symphony records contain correspondence, minutes, and bylaws about the Wichita Falls Symphony Orchestra.
The [Waco] Branch Davidians: Bill Pitts papers contains materials produced and collected by Bill Pitts, a professor in the Religion Department at Baylor University. The materials primarily cover the Branch Davidians siege of 1993.
The James Weldon Jones papers contain a series of letters sent from Alexander "Tip" Jones to his son James Weldon Jones while the latter was serving in the United States Army during World War I.
The Benjamin Edwards Green papers consists of a postcard, pamphlets, written notes, an unpublished manuscript and other chapter fragments. There is also a written genealogy of the Green family.
The Vivienne Malone-Mayes papers consists of correspondence, minutes, reports and other records related to the donor's terms as a member and Chairperson of the Board of Trustees for the Heart of Texas Region Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in Waco, Texas. The collection also contains personal materials and coursework Dr. Malone-Mayes assigned in her mathematics courses at Baylor University.
The Walter Hale McKenzie papers contains correspondence and board and committee minutes illustrating McKenzie's relations to prominent Baptists J.G. Hardin, George W. Truett, Pat Neff, and others, and his service to Baylor University, Baylor College for Women, and the Baptist General Convention of Texas.
The Colonel Chris H.W. Rueter collection consists of correspondence, certificates, postcards, artworks, photographs, and biographical information collected by Colonel Chris H.W. Rueter and his family.
The Lyrics to "America" manuscript contains a handwritten copy of the song "America" or, alternatively, "My Country Tis of Thee," by the composer Samuel Francis Smith.
The Frank L. Wilcox papers contain the personal and professional materials of Frank Wilcox, a former mayor of Waco and the son-in-law of Pat Neff.
The James Anderson Slover papers contains a manuscript written by James Anderson Slover, describing early family history on the frontier in the United States and Texas.
The Independence Baptist Church records contain one bound minute book that describes church activities, finances, and disciplinary issues from 1873-1918 and also includes a condensed history of the church from 1839-1873.
The [Edcouch] First Baptist Church records consist of correspondence and literary manuscripts pertaining to administrative operations of the church.
The Gladys Allen papers consists of materials accumulated by Gladys Allen, including correspondence, personal notes, genealogical research, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
The Rufus C. Burleson Society document the operations and activities of one of Baylor’s literary societies that was most active in the early 1900s.
The William E. Moore papers consist of letters and postcards, financial documents, and a photograph.
The BU Records: University Committee on AIDS consists of documents produced by the committee, such as informational brochures, surveys, and drafts of AIDS policy statements, as well as research materials collected by committee members.
The Erisophian Literary Society records include administrative records, literary productions, and correspondence related to the organization. Materials include activity records, membership information, creative compositions, and other resources that provide insight about the society that existed between 1853 and 1932.
The BU Records: Calliopean Literary Society consists of correspondence, literary manuscripts, and a ribbon created by members of the society.
BU Records: Dean of Women (Lily Russell) includes records created and collected by Lily Russell during her tenure as Assistant Dean of Women and Dean of Women at Baylor University.
The Catherine Alexander papers consist of correspondence, literary productions, books, and artifacts collected and produced by Mrs. Catherine Alexander.
The Carl Lovelace papers consist of correspondence, literary productions, photographic materials, and other documents relating to Dr. Lovelace's life as a Rough Rider, doctor, and Baylor Alumnus.
The Luther-Bagby collection consists of correspondence, literary productions, financial documents, photographs, and scrapbooks generated or collected by Luther, Bagby, or Smith family members, primarily pertaining to the Baptist mission experience in Brazil and throughout South America.
The P.D. Browne papers consist of materials reflecting Browne's work for Baylor University, his involvement with Seventh and James Baptist Church, and his research interests in Freestone County, Texas.
The Gertrude Harris Cook papers consist of correspondence and a manuscript Harris wrote on the Battle of Glorieta Pass, an important battle during the American Civil War in New Mexico.
The Jones Texas Broadside collection consists of 127 folio broadsides from the Spanish, Mexican, and Republic periods of Texas history.
The [Dallas] Woodrow School of Expression and Physical Culture scrapbooks contain photographs, programs, school newspapers, and other materials from the Woodrow School, a girls' finishing school in Dallas, Texas.
The BU Records: Tidwell Bible Building Campaign Committee consists of meeting minutes, correspondence, financial and legal records, as well as other documentation regarding fundraising efforts for and construction of the Tidwell Bible Building on the campus of Baylor University.
The Theodore "Ted" Amar Lyons papers consist of correspondence, literary productions, and photographic materials relating to the Baylor University and Major League Baseball career of Hall of Famer Ted Lyons.
The Reverend Samuel Pascal Wright papers are composed of legal and personal documents pertaining to the family of Reverend Samuel Pascal Wright, a Texas pastor and president of Waco Female College 1883-1887.
The Edward C. Blomeyer photographic collection contains photos from circa 1906 to 1923, including of the early telephone industry in Missouri and Texas, locations in Waco, and events such as the Texas Cotton Palace exhibition and parade. Blomeyer was president of the Texas Telephone Company.
The Frances Cobb Todd papers represent the third generation of Smith-Cobb-Bledsoe family heritage and New Hope Baptist Church materials at The Texas Collection. The collection contains items from Todd's life and work in Waco and New Hope Baptist Church.
The Roxy Harriette Grove papers consist of correspondence, literary productions, financial papers, and teaching materials. Grove was chair of the School of Music from 1926 to 1943, when Baylor became the first school in Texas to attain membership in the National Association of Schools of Music.
The BU Records: Alumni Rebuilding Campaign consist of correspondence, financial documents, and administrative records regarding fundraising efforts to rebuild the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library after the building was destroyed by fire in 1922.
The D.K. "Dock" Martin papers contain materials relating to D.K. Martin, a Texas public official and Baylor University fundraiser and booster. Martin raised money for various historic Baylor buildings, including Rena Marrs McLean Gymnasium, Tidwell Bible Building, Alexander Residence Hall, Morrison Hall, Armstrong Browning Library, and Marrs McLean Science Building.
The BU Records: S. P. Brooks Memorial Organ Committee consist of correspondence, financial documents, and literary productions regarding fundraising efforts to finance the purchase of an organ honoring Baylor president Samuel Palmer Brooks.
The BU Records: Carroll Buildings consist of correspondence regarding the furnishing of the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library and the George W. Carroll Science Hall, as well as dedication programs from when the two buildings were dedicated.
The Grace Noll Crowell papers contain scrapbooks, correspondence, photographs, and a movie advertisement printing plate, the majority being related to her family and her career as a poet.
The John H. Talton papers contain correspondence, literary productions, financial documents, and ledger books related to the life of John H. Talton, a history professor at Paul Quinn College when it was located in Waco, Texas.
The Billie Huggins Harrison papers consist of scrapbooks, photographs, and college diplomas.
The Waco Public Library Association records trace the formation and continuing operations of the first Waco Public Library, funded in part by Andrew Carnegie.
The Annie Keeling Randle papers contain copies of two plays written by Randle, an influential member of the black community in Waco throughout the twentieth-century.
The L.L. Johnson papers contain class lecture notes compiled by L.L. Johnson, a student in a class taught by Benajah Harvey Carroll.
The Virgil Hoyt McClintock papers contain case files, memoranda, photographs, scrapbooks, books, and other materials relating to V.H. McClintock’s involvement in the judicial review of NAZI War Crime cases.
The John Thomas Harrington papers consists of correspondence, financial papers, medical practice materials, and other literary documents from Harrington’s life in Waco, Texas.
The BU Records: Movement for the Perpetuation of Baylor University consist of correspondence, literary manuscripts, financial documents, and newspaper clippings concerning the proposed move of Baylor to Dallas and efforts to keep the university in Waco.
The Cooksey-Robertson Family papers primarily contain letters from A.J. Cooksey to his family in Montgomery County, Texas, during the American Civil War. Other materials include family birth certificates, transcripts of letters, and tax receipts, and a log book documenting cotton picked that season.
The Browning W. Ware papers contain the materials of noted Texas pastor Browning W. Ware, who was best known for leading First Baptist Church, Austin Texas, and many other religious and civic organizations.
The [Wharton County] Women's Missionary Society of the Methodist Church records consist of a minute book that documents the organization's activities during the Great Depression.
The Harding Black collection contains material on the life, legacy, and career of noted ceramic expert Harding Black. Harding Black's greatest contribution to the ceramics community was his glaze research, which included extensive work to recreate ancient Chinese glazes from the Song and Tang dynasties.
The Joseph Hickman Aynesworth collection contains photographs of the Aynesworth family and a scrapbook with pasted clippings. These clippings, some of which were written by Aynesworth and found in local newspapers, comment on Texas and local history.
The McGregor Plan records consist of materials documenting the Baylor University Texas Collection's participation in the McGregor Plan. The McGregor Plan assisted smaller libraries who lacked resources and access to book dealers in purchasing rare Americana to add to their holdings.
BU Records: Donald I. Moore contains correspondence from World War II, general correspondence relating to Moore's compositions and Moore's work as the director of the Golden Wave Band at Baylor University, marching band diagrams, photographic materials, programs, and film of the Golden Wave Band's performances.
The Lily McIlroy Russell papers are composed of Russell's personal collected materials, literary productions, photographs, and personal correspondence. Much of the material is connected in some way with her longtime work at Baylor University.
The Rosemyrtle McLaughlin General Tire and Rubber Company photographic collection includes Rosemyrtle McLaughlin's collected administrative files and photographs from the General Tire plant.
This collection contains an essay by C.E. Casebier concerning his trip to Washington, D.C. in 1923 to advocate for the Kansas City-Mexico-Orient Railroad.
This collection consists of a cancelled land deed from 1880 that was initially proposed to attract the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway Company to Belton, Texas.
 The Nora Elizabeth Potter Sims Papers contains materials including diaries, notebooks, correspondence, newspaper clippings, photographs, and artifacts all pertaining to Nora's life.
The Roy Elmer Beck collection contains materials from Beck's lengthy employment for the Texas Electric Railway Company in Waco.
The Estes family papers contain Civil War correspondence from Aaron Estes, soldier in the 10th Texas Infantry. Other materials in the collection include legal and financial papers.
The Gordon Zahorik collection contains photographs of streetcars operated by the Texas Electric Railway Company during the 1930's and 1940's.
The Waco Bridge Company records consists of financial ledgers and minutes books produced by the company in addition to legal documents and newspaper clippings pertaining to its construction and maintenance of the Waco Suspension Bridge.
The [Belton] Southwestern Traction Company collection contains legal documents pertaining to the maintenance of the Interurban from Belton to Temple and the construction of a new line from Belton to Williamson County in the mid-1910s.
The Belton and Northeastern Railway Company records consist of correspondence and financial documents pertaining to the creation of a railroad in the 1890's which connected Belton to the Cotton Belt Railway via McGregor, Texas.
This collection includes original manuscripts, reports, photographs, newspaper clippings, scrapbooks, diaries, biographical documents, and letters collected and/or produced by Annie Jenkins Sallee, William Eugene Sallee, and associates.
This collection contains speeches, photographs, and records of the humanitarian work done by the Waco Interfaith Conference (formerly known as the Waco Conference of Christians and Jews).
The Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company collection consists of correspondence, financial notes, clippings, and the articles of incorporation pertaining to the planning and construction of the railroad in 1909-1910. Ultimately, however, the venture failed and the railroad was not completed.
The [Temple] Southwestern Traction Company collection includes correspondence and legal documents pertaining to the interurban railway between Belton and Temple.
The Texas Colony Association collection contains a broadside entitled "Texas Colony Association, Rapid Development of a Glorious Country." It was produced in the mid-1870's in an attempt to entice Americans to move to Texas, particularly the Kaufman County area east of Dallas.
This collection contains some of the literary works of journalist Tommy West, as well as a few personal remarks describing West by journalist Ray Bell.
, written by James Lee Barrett in 1967. The resulting film starred James Stewart and Dean Martin, and centered around a bank robbery in Texas and subsequent chase into Mexican, "bandolero"-held territory.
This collection contains an order book written by F.P. Leavenworth during his command of the Confederate arsenal in Shreveport, Louisiana, and ordnance depot in Jefferson, Texas.
Betty Wilke Cox was a writer, editor, and publisher based out of Austin, Texas. Her collection includes manuscripts, correspondence, personal journals, research material, photographs, and biographical information.
This collection consists of four scripts and screenplays written by Rose Franken. Franken was a novelist and playwright best known for her "Claudia" stories and for their stage and film adaptations.
, the story is set in the 1870s and centered around a train robbery in Texas.
The finished product contains scenes shot on Baylor University's campus.
This collection contains photocopies of annual reports and timetables produced by the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company from the 1890's to the 1930's.
This collection contains materials about the production of Eugene O'Neill's play "Long Day's Journey into Night" at Baylor University by director Paul Baker, and the university's subsequent cancellation of the play. The collection contains thousands of letters in response to the controversy, among other files.
 (1972).
The screenplay, finalized in May 1961, was based on the novel by Paul I. Wellman.
This collection consists of five scripts and screenplays composed by Texas-born playwright and screenwriter Horton Foote.
This collection contains various materials Joe Lett Ward, Jr. collected as a member of civic organizations in Waco from the 1950s to the 1970s.
The William Richardson White papers contain correspondence, literary productions, photographs, clippings, and other materials related to White’s personal life and his role as Baylor University president and chancellor from 1948-1963.
Collection contains paintings and other framed items from Texas history, Baylor University history, and other topics.
This collection contains materials produced by Dr. Rufus W. Weaver, a noted Southern Baptist pastor, educator, and cultural commentator. Weaver was the president of Mercer University, and his later church-state work led directly to the founding of the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairs.
The collection includes member institution files, administrative files, and financial records of the Texas Council of Church-Related Colleges (1937-1981).
The Texas Sheet Music collection is an artificial assortment of songs and sheet music related to the state of Texas. Many of these songs pertain to the Texas War of Independence, famous military leaders, Christmas in Texas, the state flower, the state song, the city of Waco, and life in the American Southwest.
The Baylor Sheet Music collection is an assortment of songs directly related to events, traditions, and athletics at Baylor University.
The Home Economics Department records include correspondence, education materials, literary productions, and photographs relating to Baylor's Home Economics Department.
, one of the earliest systematic attempts to catalogue artists in the state of Texas.
This collection contains programs and rosters pertaining to the U.S. Army Specialized Training Program conducted at Baylor University from 1943 to 1944.
This collection consists of correspondence sent by former students, parents, and government officials to Merle Mears McClellan, Baylor University's Armed Services Representative during World War II.
The Phi Delta Phi records include administrative records, correspondence, and literary productions related to the Hemphill Inn chapter at Baylor University.
Mamie Boone was principal of John H. Reagan Elementary School in Dallas, Texas, during the 1950s. The collection contains few materials on her career as a public educator, but has extensive materials on her travels in Europe and the eastern United States, plus recipes and scrapbooks.
 newspaper, clippings, and administrative documents produced by and written about the NoZe Brotherhood, an unofficial, satirical, and secret society at Baylor University.
The collection contains scrapbooks created by the Baylor Student Education Association (BSEA).
This collection contains a variety of Baylor University-related materials collected and produced by Dr. Rufus B. Spain, an educator and religious historian who served as a full-time professor in Baylor’s Department of History between 1957 and 1988, as a part-time professor between 1988 and 1998, and as the Director of the Baylor Retired Professors/Administrators Program between 1998 and 2013.
BU Records: Spanish Department consists of teaching materials, graded student output, correspondence, and promotional materials. Most, but not all, of these came from former professor Dr. Thomas F. Walker.
The John N. Rowe III papers consist of original manuscripts, legal documents, financial bonds, currency, and printed items relating to the early history of Texas and Mexico, as well as some early United States documents. Included are rare autographs of Stephen F. Austin, Sam Houston, and James W. Fannin.
reporter who was killed during the Korean War.
This collection consists of clippings, minutes, rush invitations, and rush information and handbooks related to the Inter Club Council at Baylor University.
This collection consists of memorandums, publications, flyers, and program information related to the Faculty Development Committee at Baylor University.
This collection chronicles the [Calf Creek] Lone Star Baptist Church's spiritual and financial activities from 1920-1956. In the ledgers are recorded the church's tithes and expenses, its revivals, baptisms, members and non-member attendees, births, weddings, and deaths.
BU Records: Pi Gamma Mu covers the founding of the Texas Beta Chapter on campus and its 40 years of activity. Papers include correspondence, handbooks and club initiation guides, information on members, and organizational histories.
The Wilford Wolfie Naman papers contain a variety of materials having to do with the activities of Wilford Wolfie Naman. Naman was a soldier during the First World War, and much of the collection is his wartime correspondence or other items relating to that conflict.
This collection consists of a scrapbook of collected materials related to Mary McCauley Maxwell.
BU Records: Pi Gamma Mu covers the founding of the Texas Beta Chapter on campus and its 40 years of activity. Papers include correspondence, handbooks and club initiation guides, information on members, and organizational histories.
The [Ladonia] First Baptist Church records include one minute book documenting church member's activities in the local community.
The BU Records: Sigma Xi collection contains materials related to founding of the chapter on campus as well as materials related to the activities of the organization, such as events and its by-laws.
BU Records: Baylor Orators Toastmasters Club covers the founding of the professional development society through its chartering as an official club and its first decade of existence The Cornelia Marschall Smith papers contain materials from her time at Baylor University, both as a student and professor, and time from her tenure at Stetson University in Florida. Also included are personal materials that include programs, invitations, copies of a manuscript, photographs, negatives, slides and postcards.
BU Records: Summer School collection contains a variety of materials relating to Baylor University’s Summer School program during the years of 1926-1949.
The [Waco] Garden Clinic Garden Club records contain minutes, constitutions, booklets, awards, certificates, journals, and scrapbooks collected by the Garden Clinic Garden Club.
The McLennan County Office of Price Administration records include various records from Waco area businesses, relating to operations during World War II in Waco, Texas.
This collection contains handbooks and certificates from workshops attended by Ollie Mae Moen relating to the Waco Parent Teacher Association.
The Dr. Stephen Corwin Cameron Park Zoo records document the efforts of the Central Texas Zoological and Botanical Society to move the Central Texas Zoological Park to Cameron Park and the transitional period during this move, as well as the formative years of the Cameron Park Zoo and the Cameron Park Zoological Society. This collection shows the extensive efforts made to build a natural habitat zoo amongst an urban environment.
The [Waco] Blossom Garden Club records contain scrapbooks and photographs generated by the club during the mid-twentieth century.
The Norman Frederick papers contain photographs of the Waco area, the Waco Y.M.C.A., and newspaper clippings concerning Norman Frederick.
BU Records: Delta Theta Phi contains a variety of materials related to the Baylor University chapter of the law fraternity. These include correspondence, accounting and banking records, information about members and organization traditions, and organization publications.
BU Records: Beall-Russell Lectures contains materials relating to lectures at Baylor University beginning in 1982. The collection deals with the behind-the-scenes work for the lectures, including correspondence with speakers and committee members, financial and marketing decisions, and information relating to the speaker selection process.
The Melvan Tibbetts papers contain letters to and from Melvan Tibbetts, a Union soldier from Maine who served along the Texas coast during the American Civil War.
 The Sylvester Purl and Eliza Jane White Kirk papers contain typescripts of correspondence, as well as biographical notes relating to the letters' subjects.
The Milling Family Papers primarily contain correspondence between members of the Milling family around and during the American Civil War. Financial documents and a copy of a 1997 issue of Confederate Veteran are also included.
The William Withers diary contains an account of Withers' travels through Texas in 1866, including descriptions of crops, agriculture, Texas towns, and other travel observations.
The Stasny Family Papers include correspondence to the Stansys, financial and legal records, collected materials, and photographs.
The Anthony Garland Adair papers contains correspondence, literary productions, and other related materials regarding the Texas Memorial Museum, which Adair was instrumental in founding and later worked as curator of history.
The Frank Bowden Chilton papers contain correspondence, subject files, artifacts, photographs, scrapbooks, and collected materials. Much of the collection has to do with the post-Civil War Confederate reunion movement.
The collection includes administrative records, membership lists, minutes, photographs, booklets, and newspaper clippings pertaining to the Beta Iota chapter of Delta Sigma Pi at Baylor University. Dates range from 1930 to 1994, with the bulk of the collection dating from 1940-1958.
BU Records: Baylor Foundation records include information about the Baylor Foundation, including investment presentations, correspondence, and financial information.
BU Records: Baptist Student Union includes correspondence, financial records, literary productions, organizational records and photographs of the ministries and events put on by the organization between 1930-1960.
BU Records: Teacher Certification Program Revisions contains materials related to the reforms made by Baylor University, the School of Education in its teacher certification program in order to meet new state standards.
BU Records: Alpha Lambda Delta contains chapter materials from 1955-1973, which includes literary productions, correspondence, and financial documents related to the chapter's activity from those years.
One log book of an automobile trip from California to Texas in 1941.
The William Patton White papers contains transcripts and copies of Civil War correspondence about personal and military matters.
BU Records: Committee on Committees contains correspondence, reports, meeting minutes, and other documents relating to the activities of the Baylor University Committee on Committees.
BU Records: Bicentennial Observance includes one scrapbook of correspondence, copied newspaper clippings and other ephemeral items from events hosted by Baylor University during the United States' bicentennial.
BU Records: Guardian Angels records include correspondence, literary productions and financial documents of the organization, which supports the Armstrong Browning Library on Baylor University's campus.
BU Records: Office of the President (Abner Vernon McCall) contains the presidential records of Baylor University's 10th president, Abner Vernon McCall who served from 1961-1981. The records contain correspondence and documents related to the internal workings of the university as well as external organizations McCall and Baylor had ties to during his time as Baylor's president.
BU Records: Communications/Media Committee consists of memos, letters, proposals, publications, and a campus guide from Baylor University's Communications Media Committee.
The Jay O. Harston collection includes clippings, photographs, and other printed material documenting his career as a college athlete. Harston played baseball and football at Burleson College and Baylor University.
The Ima Joy Chodorow Gandler Texas Jewish collection houses Ima Joy Gandler’s family and personal papers as well as genealogical information of Waco Jewish families. Gandler’s participation and interests in numerous organizations is also documented. Items include clippings, correspondence, newsletters, bulletins, photographs, legal documents, organizational records, and other print materials and audiovisual media.
The Winchester-Moore Family papers are focused on the life of Robert G. Winchester, but also include items related to his mother’s family, the Moores. The collection includes clippings, photographs, event invitations and announcements, and several other items of interest from throughout the family.
The Robert P. “Buddy” Tinsley collection recounts the 1947 and 1948 Baylor Football seasons through one player. Published articles, photographs, newspaper clippings, and other small memorabilia is present in the collection.
The Joseph Jeffries Wilson papers contain personal, family, and A.J. Moore High School materials generated by Professor J.J. Wilson in his 37 years of working as principle at the school.
The Peerless Wire & Fence Company records contain publicity materials for the company based out of San Angelo, Texas, including letters and pamphlets.
The Harry L. Woodyard papers contain materials related to the activities of the 131st Field Artillery during World War I.
The Staggs and Company records consist of materials promoting the sale of their branding table.
The A.C. Bowles papers contains a single transcribed letter from Bowles near the end of the American Civil War, describing conditions in camp, possible upcoming troop movements, and rumors of peace.
The George C. Burch papers contain letters written by Burch during the American Civil War. Burch was a member of the 1st Florida Infantry, captured at the Battle of Missionary Ridge, and imprisoned for the rest of the war at Fort Delaware.
BU Records: Aerospace Studies Department consists of correspondence, scrapbooks, photographic material, and literary productions produced by the Baylor University Aerospace Studies Department, a University-sponsored military preparation program in partnership with the U.S. Air Force.
BU Records: Museum Studies Department contains a variety of materials from the museum studies department at Baylor University, primarily correspondence as well as administrative records.
BU Records: Emmy Parrish Lectures in American Studies Series contains materials relating to the speakers of past lectures, including correspondence and programs.
BU Records: Recreational Sports Department contains the 1996-97 Year End Report produced by the department.
BU Records: Center for Community Research and Development consists of copies of community needs assessments for Corpus Christi, Burnet, Llano, and Abilene Baptist Associations.
BU Records: University Research Committee includes reports regarding funds distributed by the committee from 1975-1981.
The Military Order of the World Wars (Central Texas Chapter) records contain a variety of materials dealing with the compilation of records of servicemen from Central Texas who gave their lives in conflicts from 1917-1975.
The George Green papers contain a diary and photographs from George Green's time serving in World War I.
The L. L. Sams Stained Glass Studio records include project files, renderings, and slides that document the creation and installation of stained glass windows in Texas institutions such as churches, schools, and military installations.
Correspondence, sketches, photographs, product samples, oversize drawings, and colored renderings are included.
BU Records: International Programs Office contains materials largely related to Baylor's international partnerships and programs. Materials contain correspondence, pamphlets, research materials, photographs, and administrative materials.
The American Institute of Architects: Waco Chapter records provide insight into the organization from its inception in 1962 until 1971. Materials include meeting minutes, membership applications, support documents issued by the national organization, correspondence, and financial documents.
The Alexander Gordon Walsh papers contain memoirs and photographs from the First World War.
The William H. Pierce papers contains a single letter and transcription. The letter was written in 1862 and describes Pierce’s experience as a Confederate soldier in a training camp near San Antonio.
The Museum Association of Waco records contains correspondence, financial and legal documents, minutes, and event information generated by the association, as it supports member organizations through marketing, educating, and financing initiatives.
The Edmond Hardy Jones II and Susan Jane Willis Jones papers consist primarily of letters from Edmond to Susan while he served in the 64th Georgia Infantry regiment in Florida, Georgia, and Virginia during the American Civil War.
The John Merriman McGhee papers contain four handwritten and typed transcripts of letters McGhee wrote home as part of the 16th Alabama Infantry during the American Civil War.
BU Records: President Emeritus' Office (Abner Vernon McCall) contains records relating to Judge Abner Vernon McCall's time as President Emeritus of Baylor University from 1985-1995. Records include correspondence, reports, and documents concerning Baylor University as well as external organizations McCall had involvement in.
BU Records: Chancellor's Office (Abner Vernon McCall) contains records relating to Baylor University's Chancellor from 1981-1985, Judge Abner Vernon McCall. Records include correspondence, reports, and documents concerning Baylor University as well as external organizations McCall had involvement in.
The Thomas W. Gaines collection contains correspondence, legal and financial papers, military records, and books of military tactics from the American Civil War. Gaines was a Lieutenant Colonel in the 50th Illinois Infantry.
The Alexander Hunter Chamberlin papers include letters to his wife, Temperance Killinsworth Aldridge Chamberlin, about his temporary work in the California gold fields.
The Walker Family papers consist of correspondence, legal, financial, and photographic materials from various family members, especially James Frances Walker Jr. and William Collett Walker.
The Lucretius Harrison Graves papers contains the Civil War diary of Lucretius Harrison Graves, soldier in the 6th Texas Cavalry.
The Pier Family papers contain transcriptions of letters written by Samuel Bradford Pier during the Civil War, color photocopies of members of the Pier family, genealogical information, photocopies of clippings, programs, and other materials.
The June Gilbreath papers contain information primarily about the McLane Carillon installation and dedication on the campus of Baylor University.
The Wilson County Centennial collection contains commemorative materials from the county's centennial celebration in 1960.
The A. J. Jennings Company records reflect the business management of the store located in Groesbeck, Texas. Items of interest include inventories, invoices, and ledgers documenting the types of materials sold by the store, pricing for the time period represented, and cash flow practices.
The [Waco] Woman's Club records contain administrative records and meeting minutes of the organization from 1897—1949, as well as yearbooks and scrapbooks from 1907—1974. Also included are materials related to the Waco Federation of Clubs, and various related organizations.
The Sons of the Southern Confederacy: Joseph H. Jenkins Chapter records contain a program from a 1902 veterans memorial service in McGregor, Texas, a photograph of a descendant of a veteran, and some poetry about the veterans.
The First Street Cemetery Memorial Advisory Committee records contain the working files of the First Street Cemetery Memorial Advisory Committee, a committee to support the work of the City of Waco, Texas Historical Commission, and other groups in their work on the First Street Cemetery of Waco, Texas.
The Alice Owens Caufield papers contain the personal papers of Caufield, including speeches, research, and programs from church and civic events primarily held in Waco, Texas.
The Joseph Sheppard Barnett, Jr., papers contain letters, documents, and publications that relate to Barnett’s time in the armed forces during World War I and World War II, including many military documents from his time overseeing training at Camp Howze, Texas.
The [Waco] Jefferson-Moore High School Parent Teacher Association records document the involvement of the organization and outline their purpose, goals, and projects in relation to the school. Meeting minutes, including officers, programs, and financial reports, can be found in addition to newsletters and student directories.
The Alvah Allen Torrance papers highlight his work with the Amicable Life Insurance Company and its merger with American Life Insurance Company. Travel notebooks, correspondence, photographs, and several publications are included. Also included are slides of his work as an amateur photographer.
The Texas Civil War Centennial Commission records contain correspondence, reports, and agendas produced by the Commission in preparation for the 1961-1965 commemoration of the Civil War. Also included is a copy of the joint resolution passed by the U.S. Congress establishing the Commission.
The Harris County Club for United Southern Action collection contains a letter from J.H.H. Woodward to George Whiting describing the formation and intentions of the Harris County Club for United Southern Action and expressing strong anti-secession sentiment.
The Pauline Breustedt collection documents the life and travels of a Waco resident from 1917 to 1969. Items of interest include scrapbooks, post cards, news clippings, and photographs of her personal interests, acting career, and travels.
The John D. Dace papers contain a single transcribed letter from Dace, describing how he hopes Vicksburg can outlast the siege taking place at the time.
The Alexander Archer Beville papers contain a 2nd lieutenant's commission in the Texas militia, receipts, and check stubs from Waco area businesses.
The Waco Civic Theatre records document business operations and performances of the community volunteer theatre group from 1931-2020. Notable documents include minutes, programs, scrapbooks, photographs, clippings, and correspondence.
The Native American Student Association records contain correspondence, contracts, membership records, financial documents, publicity, and a grant proposal related to the activities of the Native American Student Association.
BU Records: Continuing Education contains a wide variety of documents related to the operation of Baylor Continuing Education program from the late 1970s up to 2005, including correspondence, memos, annual reports, course materials, grant and scholarship applications, financial documents, and other administrative files.
BU Records: Retired Professors and Administrators Program contains correspondence, faculty information and obituaries, newsletters, and other materials from the program's efforts to connect, engage, and honor the legacy of retired faculty and administrators.
The J.C. McGary papers include one transcribed letter that McGary wrote as a soldier in the American Civil War.
The Normand Louis LaRoche papers contain a variety of documents and materials related to LaRoche’s experiences serving in the United States Army during World War II, including his time overseeing prisoners of war in Camp Milam, Texas, and serving in the military police in Europe.
The Washington County Tenant Farm ledgers contain small bound ledger books kept by Washington County landowners.
The BU Records: First Families of Baylor Club includes minutes, correspondence, membership lists, and other materials. The club was a student organization that Baylor students could join if they had a previous relative attend Baylor.
The [Waco] Brookview Neighborhood Association records documents the early stages of development for the community program. Minutes, by-laws, membership rosters, various reports and correspondence are included. A neighborhood housing survey is also available as it was the basis for early projects.
The Pan American Round Table of Waco, Texas scrapbooks include seven books documenting events and membership of the organization. Scrapbooks consist of newspaper clippings, photographs, newsletters, conference programs, correspondence, and other related materials.
The [Waco] Austin Avenue Methodist Church records document a limited history of the church from 1900 to 1970. Charter membership lists, baptism records, minutes, and yearbooks are present, in addition to other materials The American Association of University Women Waco Branch records contain correspondence, membership listings, yearbooks, by-laws, and publications for local, state, and national levels. Branch projects and scrapbooks are also included.
The Belton Brick Manufacturing Company records document the company from incorporation in 1883 until 1889. The collection includes stock certificates, legal documents, company minutes, and financial ledgers and daybooks.
The J.W. Curtis papers contain a single transcribed letter from Curtis, describing his work at a California gold field near Sacramento.
The Confederate Veterans collection contains a program and delegate's certificate to United Confederate Veterans reunions and two essays about veterans.
The Reconstruction collection contains general military orders #1 and #11 from the Reconstruction period in Texas history.
The Gay Family collection contains genealogies of the Gay, Mann, and Ellis families, along with news clippings about Texas independence and Baylor University President Reddin Andrews. There is also a poem written in tribute to Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson.
The Edward Clark proclamation contains two photocopies of an 1861 proclamation by Texas Governor Edward Clark, calling for a military force of 2,000 to be raised for service in the Confederate Army.
The Henry C. Smith papers consist of letters and a few photographs recounting Smith’s daily experiences in the United States Army in flight cadet training school in Ithaca, New York; Dallas, Texas; and Waco, Texas during World War I.
The Sinia Reaves Brewer Harris papers contain correspondence, clippings, photographs, manuals, and other materials documenting Harris' life and work as a a schoolteacher and project director for the National Youth Administration.
The William Moses Jones papers contain personal photographs, correspondence, financial materials, collected publications, and educational materials such as class records, exams, and academic reports from Jones’ time at Yale and Baylor University.
The Davis Robert Gurley Family collection contains one account book, loose materials from the account book, and a family Bible. The account book seems to track financial transactions from a Central Texas plantation owned and operated by Gurley.
The Waco Art League records document women's interest in the arts in Waco. The records include minutes, by-laws, yearbooks, programs, newspaper clippings, and a scrapbook.
The [Waco] Lewis Shoe Store records consist of the store's advertising materials from the 1950s-1960s, which had been collected into a scrapbook. These advertisement materials include photographs, newspaper ads, magazine ads, radio ads, TV commercials, store window designs, and information on events and promotions.
The Paul Baker papers contain biographical materials about the life and professional career of Paul Baker, a famous theater director and chair of the Baylor Theatre Department from 1940 until 1963.
The Ann Oldham papers contain correspondence, art programs, questionnaires and reports for the Daughters of the American Revolution American Music Committee, biographical sketches of American composers, photographs, newspaper clippings, and printed materials.
The Jake Wilson papers contain clippings, correspondence, obituaries, and collected materials documenting the life of Waco resident W.L. "Jake" Wilson.
The Laura Wise Maverick papers contain one scrapbook, a diary, and a travel journal documenting the singer's personal and professional life. Contained in the materials are programs from performances, playbills, announcements, news clippings, photographs, and personal documents belonging to Laura Wise Maverick.
The [Waco] Sanger Heights Neighborhood Term Paper and Research collection tells the history of the Waco neighborhood through written and oral materials collected by Dr. Allan Robb during his English 1304 course taught at Baylor University. Items include term papers, oral interviews, tax records, floor plans, photographs, maps, and copies of other historical documents.
The Robert Preston Taylor papers primarily document the military career of the chaplain after his service in World War II. The collection includes military records, sermons, photographs, books, correspondence, and audio recordings. Items from his career at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary and post retirement are also included.
The Speight-McKenney Family papers contains correspondence, calling cards, photographs, poems, songs, and an herbarium. The collection was primarily created by Florence Speight, daughter of prominent early Waco citizen Joseph Speight.
The Horace Clark papers contain materials documenting the life of Horace Clark, principal of the Baylor Female Department and Baylor Female College in Independence, Texas.
includes original drawings, art prints, and newspaper clippings of Hamm’s work in cartoons and religious illustrations.
The [Waco] Clifton Manufacturing Company records document the company located in Waco, Texas. Legal documents, clippings, correspondence, newsletters, organizational charts and reports, credit memos, photographs, and printing plates are present.
BU Records: 56th Evacuation Hospital consists of a certificate of appreciation, a letter, and copied newspaper clippings related to the achievements of the 56th Evacuation Hospital.
BU Records: Baylor-Waco Foundation contains a variety of materials related to the fundraising efforts of the Foundation in order to benefit Baylor University and the City of Waco.
 contains message board posts discussing a wide variety of topics related to Baylor and its administration, with a focus on President Robert Sloan’s administration and the Baylor 2012 initiative.
The Ben Phelper papers contain typed copies of diaries kept by Phelper while in a World War II prisoner of war camp, plus correspondence, newsletters, and unpublished manuscripts.
The Thomas A. Pickett Papers mostly span the years 1945-1952, and were compiled during Pickett's career as a U.S. Representative for the 7th Congressional District of Texas. They include campaign materials, legislative records, tidelands materials, and personal papers.
The Warren Family papers pertain to Meadowbrook Farms, a mid-twentieth century dairy located in Hewitt, Texas.
 The Bob Bullock Comptroller of Public Accounts collection documents Bullock’s service in the Office of Comptroller of Public Accounts in Texas from 1975-1990. The collection contains correspondence, notebooks, itineraries, publications, reports, and various files.
The Thomas Chester "Chet" Edwards State Legislative papers consist of personal and political materials from Mr. Edwards's 8-year career in the Texas Senate. Records include legislation, correspondence, topical files, and other materials.
The Thomas Chester "Chet" Edwards U.S. House of Representatives papers consist of personal and political materials from Mr. Edwards' 20-year career in Congress.
This collection consists of the personal and public papers of a long-time Texas public servant, Byron Tunnell. Records include awards and certificates, biographical materials, campaign materials, correspondence, legislation, photographs, speeches, and press files accumulated throughout his career.
The Clark Thompson papers focus on Representative Thompson's years as a member of the United States House of Representatives. Materials include correspondence, legislation, invitations to events, communications with the media, and scrapbooks containing memorabilia of Thompson’s tenure in Congress.
The Congressional papers of U. S. Representative Ed Lee Gossett.
The Lola Hopper collection houses various materials collected by longtime Texas political activist Lola Hopper. Ranging from the 1960's to 2013, the collection consists primarily of campaign materials and items from Hopper’s trip to the 2008 Democratic National Convention as a delegate. There are also various physical artifacts from the Texas Capitol building during renovations, and papers, photographs, and items from Hopper’s time as secretary for Texas Representative and Senator Donald G. Adams.
The Bob Bullock Campaigns collection spans the campaigns of Bob Bullock from 1974 through post-1995. The collection contains campaign materials, including correspondence, invitations, endorsements, publications, itineraries, polls, financial material, and additional materials.
The James R. "Jim" Dunnam papers represent the Texas congressional career of Jim Dunnam, spanning the 75th through the 81st Texas Legislatures. Records include correspondence, legislation, administrative files, and audio-visual materials among other items.
The Alan Steelman papers chronicle the U.S. congressional tenure of Alan Steelman, encompassing the years 1973-1976. Additionally, the papers contain campaign materials, a biographical section spanning 1960-2003, press releases, correspondence, and audio-visual items, among other materials.
The Edmund L. Nichols papers encompass the government career of Ed Nichols, including his service with the Texas Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and diplomatic service abroad as a U.S. agricultural counselor in several European countries. The collection also includes personal papers and correspondence.
The Dick Russell papers consist of original manuscripts, research materials, and articles collected by Dick Russell, pertaining primarily to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
The W. R. “Bob” Poage State Legislative Papers house personal and political materials from Poage’s career in the Texas House of Representatives and the Texas Senate. Records include correspondence, legislation, news clippings, campaign materials, and other items.
The William R. Smith papers represent the personal affairs of William R. Smith, spanning from his time practicing law in 1890 through his time as a federal judge and congressman, ending around 1912. Records are almost exclusively personal correspondence.
The William R. “Bill” Vance papers offer a sampling of media and personal interaction with Vance during his time as justice for the 10th Court of Appeals in Waco, spanning from 1989-2009. The collection is primarily press clippings, with some correspondence, campaign materials, and administrative documents.
The Fowler C. West papers represent West’s Washington, D.C. career, 1964-1993, on the U.S. House of Representatives Agriculture Committee staff and as Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Records include correspondence, speeches, administrative files, and subject files among other items.
The Marvin Leath papers are comprised of material from the Congressional career of Marvin Leath, 1980-1991. Records include administrative files, agencies and departmental files, correspondence, legislation, A/V materials, and awards.
The Caso March Papers contain scrapbooks, personal files, news clippings, campaign materials, photographs, and oversize diagrams. These materials document his three unsuccessful attempts for governor, as well as his personal life and career.
The John Dowdy papers span the period of his life from the mid-1920s to his death in 1995. While the bulk of the papers are from his congressional years (1952-1972), there are also considerable materials in the Personal series pertaining to his years as Court Reporter and District Attorney (1935-1952), as well as the series covering his trial and imprisonment (1965-1974).
The Bob L. Thomas papers include correspondence, biographical information, clippings, and research notes. The bulk of this collection is court opinions written by Thomas while he presided as a Justice of the Tenth Court of Appeals in Waco, Texas.
The Ray Kirkpatrick papers include certificates, diplomas, photographs, scrapbooks, news clippings, correspondence, and subject files. Items are inclusive of his time before, during, and after his service in the Texas House of Representatives.
The Charles Barrow papers include campaign materials, photographs, scrapbooks, newspaper clippings, newsletters, and memorandums. A bulk of the material is dated 1977-1984, the period Barrow served as Texas Supreme Court Justice.
The Sam B. Hall, Jr. papers are focused on the period in which he served as a United States House Representative (1976-1985). Materials present include correspondence, campaign materials, subject files, project files, and research materials. Other items include schedules, itineraries, committee materials, radio transcripts and speeches, and audiovisual materials. Materials from his time as a <lb/> Federal Judge are also present (1985-1994).
A collection of materials pertaining to Congressman Wright Patman who represented Texas’s 1st District from 1929 until his death in office, March 1976.
The Mattie Mae McKee papers consist of correspondence, photographs, and literary productions compiled by McKee while she worked as a congressional aide for five U.S. Representatives and Senators from 1968 to 1989. Most of the materials relate directly to her book published in 2014, <emph render="italic">In the Shadow of the Greats: From Texas' Square Roots to Capitol Hill's Inner Circle</emph>.
The Donald G. Adams papers offer a glimpse into Adams's work as a Texas State Representative and Senator in Austin, spanning from 1962 to 1980. The collection is primarily comprised of legislation related to the congressional sessions Adams sat in and correspondence between Adams and constituents or Adams and other Texas politicians. In addition, the collection contains a mixture of books, pamphlets, clippings, campaign literature, and speech materials.
The Gordon Schendel papers consist of Schendel's notes regarding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy as well as newspaper clippings written by or about Schendel.
The Loretta J. Dunbar papers contain a personal essay on the experiences Dunbar had during the days surrounding the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
The McLennan County Democratic Party records contain meeting minutes, financial records, ballots, and other election materials from the mid-twentieth century. The collection was donated by Gene Evans, a former chair of the organization.
The Allen D. Place, Jr. materials include correspondence, news clippings, legislation, and committee work dated 1991-1998, when Place was a Texas State Representative. Legislation pertains to issues such as criminal jurisprudence, gambling, railroad mergers, and school funding.
This collection contains reports, pamphlets, articles, and other literary productions accumulated by U.S. Representative Bob Poage. The materials relate to the development of Texas, particularly in the areas of agriculture, education, energy, healthcare, immigration, transportation, and water resources.
The W. R. "Bob" Poage Campaign papers consist of materials produced during the political campaigns of Bob Poage, primarily as the U.S. Representative for the Eleventh Congressional District of Texas from 1937 to 1978. The collection includes correspondence, financial documents, subject files, and promotional materials relating to his campaigns in Central Texas as well as the broader changes affecting the Democratic Party in the mid-twentieth century.
The John E. Hogan papers span the length of Hogan's time working as counsel for the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture, from the 1970s to the late 1990s. Much of the materials are research materials accumulated for legislative purposes.
This collection contains correspondence, reports, and other materials accumulated by U.S. Representative Bob Poage while in office from 1937 to 1978. The materials were produced outside of Poage’s duties with the House and pertain to other U.S.
government entities including the White House, the Supreme Court, and various agencies and departments.
The Don Grisham collection contains material relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy including transcriptions of police radio transmissions, correspondence, and investigation files from the Dallas Police Department. The collection also contains material related to Lee Harvey Oswald and his family prior to 1963.
The W. R. "Bob" Poage Personal papers cover the entirety of Poage's life (1899-1987) and extend beyond to chronicle his father's life, as well as media coverage of Bob Poage's passing. The bulk of these papers span his career as a U.S. Representative (1937-1978), but the collection also includes artifacts from his childhood, law practice, and family.
This collection consists of research collected and articles written by Grover B. Proctor, Jr., a prominent researcher on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
The Theresa Seay papers consist of a dissertation written by Seay, research materials and articles written by Seay and articles collected by Theresa Seay, pertaining to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.
The Richard A. Jenson collection contains political campaign materials related to all branches of government at the federal, state, and local levels. State, local, and organization-level materials are primarily related to Texas politics from the 1980s and 1990s.
The John Leedom papers contain a variety of materials relating to his roles in the Republican Party in Texas from the 1960s-1990s, as well as some personal and business documents.
This collection features Moffett’s campaign-related documents including promotional materials, newspaper clippings, and correspondence. It also includes general correspondence throughout his tenure in the Texas House of Representatives and Senate.
The ABL Stained Glass Window Records - General Materials consists of correspondence, financial records, and literary productions.
The Czechoslovakia Subject Files contain a variety of materials on religion and atheism, persecution of clergy and believers, human rights activity, and major historical events in Czechoslovakia.
The Xenia Dennen Papers contain materials produced or collected by Xenia Dennen, Chair of the Council of Management of the Keston Institute in Oxford, United Kingdom.
The Angola Subject Files contain a variety of materials related to a range of topics from the Angolan Civil War (1975-2002) to international relations and religious activities.
The Romania Subject Files contain a variety of materials on religious persecution, state religious policies, communist ideology, atheist propaganda, discrimination of ethnic minorities, and human rights activity in the country.
The Cuba Subject Files contain a variety of materials pertaining to political prisoners, international relations, and religion in the country.
The German Democratic Republic Subject Files contain a variety of materials on religious persecution, state religious policies, communist ideology, political leaders, religious publications, and international affairs pertaining to the country.
The Cambodia Subject Files contain a variety of materials pertaining to Cambodian refugees, the country’s international relations, foreign aid, religion, and religious persecution.
The North Korea Subject Files contain a variety of materials pertaining to religion, North Korean leaders, and the country’s relations with South Korea and other countries.
The Mozambique Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the Mozambique Marxist government and its policies and practices, including human rights violations and religious persecution.
The Vietnam Subject Files contain a variety of materials on religion, government, and emigration.
Afghanistan Subject Files contain a variety of materials on multiple topics, including military action, international relations, Islam, and general history.
The Radio Free Europe/ Radio Liberty Subject Files contain RFE/RL publications on Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Eastern Europe, the Baltic area, Hungary, China, and Yugoslavia.
The Nadezhda Teodorovich Papers contain materials produced or collected by Nadezhda Teodorovich, head of the Institute for the Study of the USSR in Munich, Germany.
The Poland Subject Files contain a variety of materials on multiple topics pertaining to government, state policy, martial law, oppression, violence, censorship, international relations, opposition movements, dissidents, religion, religious persecution, and publications.
The Chile Subject Files contain a variety of materials on multiple topics including the rise of Marxism, political parties, military actions, humanitarian aid, religion, the treatment of prisoners, and human rights campaigns.
The Soviet Union and Russia Orthodox Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the affairs of the Russian Orthodox Church, its relations with the state, and the lives of clergy and believers in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union Islam Subject Files contain a variety of materials on Islam and persecution of Muslim believers.
The Soviet Union Ukrainian Catholic (Uniate) Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history and persecution of the Ukrainian Catholic Church and Ukrainian Catholic clergy and believers in the Soviet Union.
The Serge Keleher Papers contain materials produced or collected by Fr. Serge Keleher, a Catholic priest and Keston staff researcher specializing in the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church.
The Bulgaria Subject Files contain a variety of materials on multiple topics, including religious persecution, religious dissidents, human rights activity, state religious policies, atheist propaganda, and discrimination of Turkish ethnic minorities in the country.
The China Subject Files contain a variety of materials on multiple topics, including the general progression of China’s political, economic, and social development and the role religion played throughout modern Chinese history.
The Soviet Union Registered Baptist Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history and persecution of the Registered Baptist Church and the life and hardship of its clergy and members in the former Soviet Union.
The Soviet Union and Russia Jehovah’s Witnesses Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history and persecution of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Michael Bourdeaux Papers contain materials produced or collected by Rev. Canon Dr. Michael Bourdeaux, founder of Keston College in the United Kingdom.
The Soviet Union and Russia Pentecostal Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the Evangelical Christian Pentecostal Church and persecution of Pentecostal believers in the former Soviet Union.
The Soviet Union and Russia Seventh Day Adventist Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the Seventh Day Adventist Church and persecution of Seventh Day Adventists in the former Soviet Union.
The Marite Sapiets Papers contain materials produced or collected by Marite Sapiets, the Keston College’s principal researcher on religion in the Baltic states.
The Soviet Union and Russia Roman Catholic Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history and persecution of the Roman Catholic Church and the life of Catholic Christians in the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Unregistered Baptist Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history and persecution of unregistered Evangelical Christians - Baptists in the former Soviet Union.
The Soviet Union Jewish Subject Files contain a variety of materials on persecution of and discrimination against Jews in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
contain materials produced or collected by Katharine Murray, a former staff member of the Keston Institute in Oxford, United Kingdom.
The David Clark Papers contain reports of Clark’s field trips and working sessions that illustrate how Bible translation flourished between 1992 and 2014, particularly in Russia, as well as related items, including photographs.
The Soviet Union Old Believers Subject Files contain a variety of materials on persecution of and discrimination against Old Believers in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union True Orthodox (Catacomb) Church Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the history, life, and persecution of True Orthodox clergy and believers in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union Evangelical Lutheran Subject Files contain a variety of materials on the persecution of and discrimination against members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union Hare Krishna Subject Files contain materials that focus on the history of the religion within the Soviet Union and the persecution and struggles in registration the group experienced in the late 20th century.
The Soviet Union Hinduism Subject Files contain materials relating to persecution of Hindus, details about yogis, and Soviet opinions of Gandhi.
The Soviet Union Ilyintsy Subject Files contain documents briefly detailing the history of the group, as well as their persecution in the 1980s.
The Soviet Union Anglican Subject Files primarily contain materials relating to the reclaiming of St. Andrew’s Anglican Church building in Moscow. A few additional resources pertain to the Anglican Church as a whole and other individual Anglican churches within Russia.
The Soviet Union Innokentievtsy Subject Files contain documents detailing the history of the group, public perception, and recruitment of young adults.
The Jane Ellis Papers contain materials produced or collected by Jane Ellis, the Keston Institute’s principal scholar on the Russian Orthodox Church in the twentieth century and a leading expert on the religious situation in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union Khlysty Subject Files contain documents regarding the group’s history and perception by the press.
The Soviet Union Reformed Church Subject Files contain materials related to the Reformed Church in Ukraine, Hungary, and the Transcarpathian region with a special focus on statistics and numbers of the churches.
The Soviet Union Salvation Army Subject Files contain materials related to the status of the church in Russia, its registration under the 1997 law, and the opening of corps and social service projects.
The Soviet Union Lord's Army Subject File contains a document detailing the size of the group in Moldova.
The Soviet Union Mennonite Files contain a variety of materials about the history, lives, movement, and discrimination in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The Soviet Union Murashkovtsy File contains information on the group specifically within Kazakhstan in the 1960s and 1970s.
The Soviet Union Pokutniki Subject File contains documents focused on the group’s perception by authorities and persecution by the Soviet government.
The Soviet Union Trezvenniki Subject File contains a book review and photographs of a lengthy document.
The Soviet Union Methodist Files contain a variety of materials on the churches, congregations, and leaders of the Methodist church in Estonia, the Soviet Union, and Ukraine.
The Soviet Union Molchalniki Subject Files contain documents regarding children and those who lived in the Baku region.
The Soviet Union Molokan Subject Files contain documents regarding history, extent of religious freedom, and impact of a proposed religious bill.
The Soviet Union Nazarene File contains information on the status, membership, and freedoms of the Nazarenes within Eastern Europe in the late 1960s.
The Soviet Union Pryguny Subject File contains a bibliography reference to an article which mentions the group.
The Soviet Union Protestant Church Subject Files contain documents primarily regarding missionary work and churches in the Siberia region. There are also references to existing religions in this area and to persecution.
The Soviet Union Skoptsy Subject Files contain materials relating to the status of the church in Russia, its process of registration under the 1997 law, and the opening of corps and social service projects.
The Soviet Union Tryasuny (Shaker) Subject Files contain materials on the history of the group overall, so much focus is on the group in the United States. Mentions of Moldova and presence in camps within the Soviet Union are also made.
The Soviet Union Quaker Subject File contains materials on the history of the group in Russia. Special focus is given to their presence in the 1800s and their relations with government figures.
The Soviet Union Karaite Jews Subject Files contain materials which discuss the development of their language, the Reformation period, and their history.
The Soviet Union Mason Subject Files contain articles and a book chapter that detail the presence of Masons within the Soviet Union. They appear to cover the Masons’ presence in the late 20th century and include some other historical details.
The Soviet Union Unification Church Subject Files contain materials on the Unification Church within Russia, primarily during the post-Soviet period.
The Soviet Union Mormon Subject Files contain materials on the Church of Latter-day Saints within Russia in the post-Soviet period.
The Soviet Union Rerikhism Subject Files contain materials on the group within the Soviet Union and Russia primarily during the post-Soviet period.
The Soviet Union Shamanism Subject Files contain materials on the group focused on the Siberian, Mongolian, and Eastern Soviet Union regions. Special insight is given to the practices of the group.
The Soviet Union Subbotniki Subject Files contain materials on the group within the Soviet Union in the early 1970s.
The Soviet Union Teilhardism Subject Files contain a book review (circa 1977) which provides insight into Teilhardism views of science and faith.
The Soviet Union Tolstoyans Subject Files contain various material from the 1980s that mention the persecution and history, especially surrounding the start of the Soviet Union, of the Tolstoyan group. There are also three samizdat journals written in Russian.
The Robert G. Hoare Papers contain a variety of materials produced or collected by Robert G. Hoare, a Keston Institute contract researcher who monitored the religious situation in communist and post-communist Bulgaria.
Julus Bledsoe was born as Julius Lorenzo Cobb Bledsoe on December 29, 1898, in Waco, Texas. At five years old, he gave his first public vocal performance. Bledsoe originally wanted to pursue a medical career, but instead began studying music under Luigi Parisotti. After years of musical study, including degrees from Bishop College in Marshall, Texas, Virginia Union University in Richmond, Virginia, Columbia University in New York City, and time in Paris, France, Bledsoe made his concert debut in New York City at twenty-three years old. Bledsoe adopted the stage name “Jules Bledsoe” early in his career, and was commonly called by that name for the rest of his life. His long literary career included composing and performing music, acting in plays and operas, and writing poems. Bledsoe’s work took him around the world, with performances in France, United Kingdom, Norway, Italy, and back to New York City in vaudeville, radio, and television. Bledsoe played in many productions, including “Showboat,” “Aida,” “Emperor Jones,” “Deep River,” “Abraham’s Bosom,” and others. His signature song was considered to be “Old Man River,” which he sang in most concerts he gave. Bledsoe also wrote and performed his own songs and operas, which included folk songs, spirituals, patriotic songs, and operas. Jules Bledsoe’s contributions to his art went beyond his musical skill. He was the first African-American to perform with a United States opera company in America, in addition to performing in operas around the world. Bledsoe was also known as a multilingual singer, proficient in English, Italian, French, German, and Yiddish by 1936. Jules Bledsoe also owned a resort in New York’s Catskill Mountains open only to African Americans. Called “Jessie’s Manna Farms,” it is unknown how much profit he made from this side business. During World War II, Jules Bledsoe assisted in the war effort by giving a war bonds tour around the United States. During one stop in Waco, Texas, his performance was so well received by the 2,500 people in attendance that he gave multiple encores for more than an hour after his show ended. Jules Bledsoe died on July 14, 1943, in Hollywood, California from a cerebral hemorrhage. Noted Baylor University scholar and head of the English Department, Dr. J.A. Armstrong, spoke at his funeral. Jules Bledsoe is buried in Greenwood Cemetery, Waco, Texas.
This series contains correspondence to and from Jules Bledsoe about his public performances, his personal life, the resort farm he ran in New York (Jessie's Manna Farms), and other facets of his life and career. Many of the letters are to or from Adrian Frederick Huygens, Bledsoe's longtime agent, who went by Freddy.
This series contains financial items from Jules Bledsoe. Many of them have to do with running Jessie's Manna Farm.
This series contains literary items written by or about Jules Bledsoe. Notable items include a handwritten biographical manuscript about Bledsoe written by his aunt, Naomi Cobb. There are also many programs from Bledsoe's performances, pamphlets on Jessie's Manna Farm, and other literary items.
This series contains various legal documents having to do with Jules Bledsoe's life and music career.
This series contains photographs of Bledsoe, primarily during his time traveling the world as an international opera star. There are also extensive publicity pictures of him in the various roles he played on stage.
This series contains Bledsoe's library of sheet music, much of which he used to sing in performances across the world. Many of the documents contain his handwritten notes.
This series contains several oversize items, including several scrapbooks detailing Bledsoe's career. There is also a scrapbook about Bledsoe's funeral at Waco's New Hope Baptist Church.
This series contains several tapes of Bledsoe singing several spiritual. Also included is a recording of Bledsoe singing his most well-known piece, "Ol' Man River." Rufus Columbus Burleson was born in Decatur, Alabama, on 1823 August 7, to Jonathon Burleson and Elizabeth Byrd. He was one of thirteen children (8 daughters and 5 sons). From his early years, Burleson was an excellent student who strove to distinguish himself from among his peers.
Throughout his youth, he had strong aspirations to attend law school. At the age of sixteen, Burleson had a conversion experience at a Baptist revival and chose to devote his life to the ministry instead. He enrolled in Western Baptist Theological Seminary in Covington, Kentucky and graduated with his degree in 184. In 1848, Burleson moved to the Texas frontier as a Baptist missionary a few years after the state had been annexed to the United States. He had been called upon to replace William Tryon, the recently deceased pastor of the First Baptist Church in Houston.
Throughout their ventures in Texas, Rufus C. Burleson and his brother Richard B. Burleson were among the most influential Baptists in the state. A strong moral education was seen as vital to the sanctity of the Baptist denomination both in the training of future ministers and the molding of virtuous citizens. This dream became realized upon the establishment of Baylor University on 1845 February 1. Although Rufus was not in Texas at this time, he quickly became involved in raising funds and publicity for the fledgling university. Rufus Burleson’s rising popularity and influence brought about significant changes in his life. In 1851, Burleson ascended to the presidency of Baylor University in Independence, Texas. Under his leadership, Baylor University grew into a formidable institution. On 1853 January 3, he married Georgia Jenkins. On November 19 of the following year, Burleson baptized famous Independence resident General Sam Houston. Despite his great successes as Baylor’s president, Burleson’s term of office was increasingly filled with problems. Raising money to keep Baylor’s doors open was always difficult, and Burleson did not always agree with Horace Clark, the principal of Baylor’s Female Department, on many university issues. Burleson left Baylor in 1861 to take charge of Waco University. Despite the long tenure of William Crane as the next president of Baylor, and his attempts to raise funds, the university was unable to sustain itself financially. In 1886, Burleson became the first president of Baylor University after Baylor moved from Independence to Waco and merged with Waco University. Burleson served in this administrative capacity until 1897. During this time, Burleson’s reputation was marred by controversy. In 1894, a young Brazilian girl living with the Burleson family became pregnant. Although a jury found Burleson innocent of the accusations brought against him, his reputation never recovered. Even after resigning from his position as president, Burleson continued to work for the interests of the University over the next four years. Burleson passed away in Waco, Texas on 1901 May 14 at the age of 77.
This series of correspondence comprises most of the collection. The majority of the letters are personal exchanges between Rufus C. Burleson and family members, fellow ministers, Baylor officials, Baylor students, and organizations such as the Texas Baptist Herald.
This short series includes portions of wills, records of court proceedings, and affidavits.
This short series contains papers for Burleson’s personal finances as well as those of Baylor University.
This large literary series includes a vast array of documents including pamphlets, published sermons, newspaper clippings, class rosters, students’ assignments, and various books. Burleson’s affiliation with Baylor is quite evident in this series.
This series includes a complete photo album of the Burleson family.
The Waco Boating and Fishing Club was organized in 1890 as the first social club in Waco city history. Active until 1988, the club focused on providing a family-friendly place to exercise and socialize with other members. The purpose of the new club was to construct and maintain a place for preserving and canning fish on a site of at least 50 acres. With many city leaders as members, the club had no problem purchasing 50 acres of ground with a lake on site five miles west of Waco for $2,000. Members settled on the name “Fountain Lake” for their new property, and they began improving the site, drilling an artesian well for fresh water, stocking the lake with fish, and building a boat house. By the 1900s, the club had switched to the name “Fish Pond Club” instead of the longer and clumsier original name. As improvements continued, the 25-year charter granted by the state ran out, and the club was reformed in 1916 February. By now, the area had become a social center for Waco, with special events, dances, dinners, and parties for members, or non-members if they paid an extra fee. Several people were hired as full-time staff members of the club, and a caretaker’s house was built on site for security of the area. As the area became better known, people began referring to the whole area around the club property as “Fish Pond,” so that when the city of Waco annexed the area, the term “Fish Pond” became the official designation of the community. By 1947, the clubhouse and grounds were in serious need of improvements. Ridgewood Country Club, founded in 1947, had also begun to give the Boating and Fishing Club serious competition for the first time, and at least some members believed they had to shake the “poor man’s club” perception that Fish Pond had acquired over time, compared to Ridgewood. In 1977, after an engineer’s inspection of the clubhouse for structural problems, the club decided to build a new clubhouse, plus other improvements on the grounds, for approximately $500,000. Fish Pond’s massive capital building campaign, undertaken after extensive board meetings, surveys of members, comments, and member meetings, included a clubhouse, swimming pool, tennis courts, jogging path, playground, parking, and a separate building for dressing rooms. Though the club was already $24,000 in debt, they took out more loans to begin the first building phase, and raised dues on their members several times to obtain more money. The new clubhouse opened in 1979 December, but it is unknown how many of the other planned improvements were ever completed. Since this collection does not have the complete minutes and other narrative documents until the club was dissolved in 1988, the reasons for dissolving the club and selling all property to Ridgewood are not completely known. However, in 1985 the club sold their 38 remaining acres, perhaps minus the land that the caretaker’s house sat on, to their competitor Ridgewood Country Club to pay off the remaining $400,000 principal on their 1978 clubhouse loan. The club voted to dissolve in 1988, with only the board of directors voting, since there were no members other than the board left. After the club disbanded there were still enough interested people to continue club-related activities in the area. Several pieces of correspondence and research materials date from the post-club time period, when several people worked to obtain a historical marker for the club. A local street was also named for the club, Fish Pond Road, which had to be brought before the city council, and papers from this later time period are also in the collection. The Waco Boating and Fishing Club stands as the first social club of Waco’s history, and provides insight into the lives and leisure activities of people from that time.
Series includes correspondence to and from various leaders of the Waco Boating and Fishing Club. Most of the letters have something to do with membership, either giving it up or wanting to continue as members.
The series includes various official documents generated by the club, the articles of incorporation, and site and survey plans.
The series includes bills, receipts, and statements from various vendors around Waco, bank statements, and a sampling of stock certificates sold to members. The series is in good to excellent condition.
The literary productions series, the largest series in the collection, contains notes on a historical marker for the club, membership surveys, minutes, scrapbook pages, and membership lists. The series is in excellent condition.
This series contains a number of family photographs taken on the Waco Boating and Fishing Club property. Several photographs were taken from the air of the site, but most are of people during various club events.
The Baylor Historical Society, formed to “stimulate interest in the history of Baylor University,” began in February 1941. Membership was open to anyone interested, and it only cost $1 to join the society. Though the society was interested in Baylor history in general, members were especially interested in the Texas Collection and Independence, Texas. Since the Texas Collection was the designated repository for Texas history-related items, members directed donations there of original trustee minutes from Baylor’s early history, four dresses from Baylor presidents’ wives, and the collection of William Carey Crane, a former Baylor president. Baylor University started originally in Independence, Texas, and the society was very interested in preserving Baylor’s history there. Members raised money to stabilize the iconic Baylor columns, drew up plans to reconstruct a dorm and operate it as an inn, and lobbied the Texas Legislature to adopt part of Independence as a state park. Through the 1950s and 1960s, the group raised money to do what they could. Members also helped the Texas State Garden Club landscape around Independence. The society also held regular meetings and luncheons on the Baylor campus, and usually heard a historical paper given at each meeting. The collection contains all known papers read at the yearly meetings. Though technically not attached to the university in any way, so many employees from Baylor were members of the society that the group enjoyed semi-official status on campus. State luminaries such as Price Daniel and Pat Neff read historical papers to the group, longtime staff members P.D. Browne, Robert L. Reid, Lilly Russell, and E. Bruce Thompson served as officers, and many ancestors of early Baylor-associated families were members. The Society’s contributions to Baylor and Texas history are many. The time that they operated in Independence is especially significant, since it had been thought Baylor was not active in Independence in the 1940s-1960s. Instead, this society was very active at raising money for the columns at Independence and bringing donations to the Texas Collection. It is not known when or why the society disbanded. In 1957 the society spent most of their annual meeting taking suggestions from members on how they could improve their organization, indicating that they were not as focused as they had been in the past. Though the society had been formed as a research institution, many members were in favor of reforming the society around other goals. By 1964, the society only had 21 members at their annual meeting, and many of the people who had taken the lead in forming and running the organization had passed away. Longtime member P.D. Browne donated the society’s records to the Texas Collection in 1975, even though some financial papers in the collection have a 1982 date.
The religious sects known as the Davidians and Branch Davidians were the products of a reform movement within the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Problems began when a group of Adventists, led by Bulgarian immigrant Victor Houteff, began to challenge the traditional hierarchy of the denomination. Houteff claimed to have received personal revelations from God and published his controversial views in a book entitled The Shepherd’s Rod (1932). Houteff and his followers, the Davidians, believed that the spiritual gift of prophecy was necessary for effective leadership so that King David’s earthly kingdom could be re-established on earth prior to the second coming of Jesus Christ. After the leaders of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church excommunicated his sect, Houteff moved to Waco, Texas, and continued to preach until his death in 1955. Upon Houteff’s death, the Davidians splintered into sects. The new Branch Davidians, under Ben and Lois Roden, emerged as an offshoot. The Rodens would lead the Branch Davidians well into the 1980's. Some of their work including sermons, pamphlets, and personal correspondence are found in the Mark Swett Collection.
 Despite decades of relative peace, the 1980's brought about division within the Branch Davidian sect. A newcomer named Vernon Howell had joined the Branch in 1981. Three years later, a schism occurred within the Branch Davidians, with Howell leading his own group of followers to a new site in Palestine, Texas. Through a series of confrontations between Howell and George Roden, the son of Ben and Lois Roden, control of the Branch Davidians’ headquarters in Waco passed to Howell who legally changed his name to David Koresh in 1990. Rumors concerning polygamy, abuse, and arms dealing within the Branch Davidian group aroused the suspicions of the federal government. Thus, federal agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives began to monitor the group. In response to a stockpiling of illegal weapons, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives secured a search warrant for the investigation of the Branch Davidians’ compound near Waco, Texas. From February 28th until April 19th, 1993, Branch Davidians under the leadership of David Koresh resisted federal agents’ attempts to storm their Mount Carmel Center. The fifty-day siege ended when the compound erupted in flames, killing David Koresh and most of his followers. Mark Swett is a private collector who studied religious cults in U.S. history. As a result of this passion, he has quickly become one of the most renowned researchers in the case of the Branch Davidians. He was particularly interested in the figure of David Koresh and the divinity attributed to him. Although he was a career insurance salesman in Westbrook, Maine, Swett devoted his time and energy into researching the Waco Branch Davidians via the internet and personal correspondence. He created his own web site entitled “Waco: Never Again!” which has since been removed. Although Swett believed that the fire was ultimately the responsibility of the Branch Davidians, he claimed to be an unbiased researcher seeking only to know the truth of the situation. Because of his vast knowledge of Koresh and the Branch Davidians, Swett has been personally involved in interviews, trials, and theatrical productions about the Waco Siege. In 2003, Swett sold his vast collection to Baylor University so that others could use the primary source materials that he had amassed.
This series contains correspondence from some of the most influential Branch Davidians including former leaders Ben and Lois Roden. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains books, pamphlets, sermons, notes, essays, and other literary productions pertaining to the Davidian and Branch Davidians sects. The writings and sermons of David Koresh are prominent throughout. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains a photograph and videos pertaining to the Branch Davidians, primarily during the siege of Mount Carmel in 1993. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains hundreds of audiotapes concerning the Branch Davidians. Materials include sermons by various leaders as well as recordings of the siege. The materials are in good condition.
Organized in 1896, the Waco chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy is still active in the local community. Originally the organization dedicated monuments, decorated graves, and lobbied for textbooks acceptable to their group in the early 1900s, similar to the activities of the United Confederate Veterans. Though the goals of the Daughters of the Confederacy have changed through the years as different generations have come and gone, they still seek to remember their version of the war through dedicating monuments, decorating graves, raising money, and many other activities. Like many Daughters of the Confederacy chapters throughout the South, the Mary West Chapter was originally an auxiliary organization to the local Confederate veterans camp, the Pat Cleburne camp. Though the daughters’ group began in 1890, it did not choose to affiliate with the new United Daughters organization until 1896, when they became the third chartered group in the state. The Waco chapter was named for Mary West, the founder and driving force behind the local group for many years. Despite the organization being re-chartered several times, most recently in 2004, Mary West’s name has always been attached to the group. It is thought that the reorganization of the group under several different charters explains some discrepancies in the chapter’s number through the years, as it has held the numbers 3, 26, and 2381. The group wrote a constitution, held annual meetings and reunions, and participated in state and national reunions and events. It is not known where they originally met for meetings and socials, but by the 1930s they were meeting in an old log cabin in Cotton Palace Park in Waco. The cabin was moved in 1933 to Harrington Park close to Baylor University, and Baylor bought the property in 1947. The group was left without a place to meet after their cabin burned in 1959. Though active well into the mid 1900s, at some point the charter for the Mary West group expired. Re-chartered in 2004, the group continues to promote Civil War heritage causes, and often works with the Waco Sons of Confederate Veterans chapter.
The series includes two ledgers and associated loose materials. These papers contain notes on dues and organization expenses.
The series includes two ledgers and associated loose materials. These papers contain notes on dues and organization expenses.
The series includes pamphlets, essays, programs, reports, and clippings. Most of the pamphlets were produced by the Mary West Chapter, while most of the programs were produced by the National United Daughters of the Confederacy organization. Clippings include both local and national news on the organization.
This series includes scrapbooks and loose material from scrapbooks. These scrapbooks seem to be in complete runs during the years 1931-1944, 1972-1984, and then 1994-1996. The early and undated scrapbooks contain much information of the time period not related directly to the Daughters, or even to the Civil War. Most of the dated scrapbooks after 1940 are exclusively about the local chapter, and contain many photographs and unique items for their specific year.
The Waco chapter of the United Confederate Veterans was organized in 1888. Active until the late 1930s, it functioned much like other veterans’ organizations of the time, providing a way for veterans to remember their part in the American Civil War, financially help struggling veterans’ families, and guard the veterans’ memory of the war. Though the camp was formed in 1888, it did not officially join the United Confederate Veterans organization until 1893. This was not unusual for the South or Texas, as many independent local organizations sprang up throughout the 1880s, and did not begin to ally with other camps until the early 1890s. A printed copy of the group’s constitution can be found in the collection. The group wrote a constitution, held annual meetings and reunions, and participated in state and national reunions and events.
Unlike the nearby Joe Johnston camp at the Confederate Reunion Grounds, there is no indication that the Pat Cleburne chapter owned their own land. It is important to note that most members of the camp probably were not native Texans, and had not served in Texas units during the Civil War. Many Southern families migrated west after the war in search of a new beginning, and Texas was the recipient of a large number of these ex-Confederates on the move. With these ties to other states, at least some Cleburne camp members attended national reunions, since there was a good chance they would know people there. State reunions became a destination as well, since some Cleburne camp veterans attended the statewide reunion in Amarillo, Texas, in 1935. The program for that reunion is in this collection. Most of the men involved in the group had seen service in the Western theater of the Civil War, and chose to name their camp after a well-known Confederate commander, Patrick Cleburne. Cleburne had been a divisional commander in the Army of Tennessee, but was killed in 1864 at the Battle of Franklin. The various activities of the camp were noticed by local newspapers.
Though the camp did many things throughout the community, probably their most visible role was decorating the graves of their fellow soldiers on Decoration Day, the forerunner to the modern Memorial Day. Each year the veterans, in conjunction with the local chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, would purchase fresh flowers and place them at veterans’ graves throughout Waco cemeteries. Many veterans were buried in Oakwood Cemetery, and this seemed to be the cemetery that received the most attention. Like most United Confederate Veteran camps, the Waco chapter slowly grew less relevant as the Civil War veterans died off. There seems to be no record of a final disbanding, as the minutes end abruptly in 1937. It is possible there is a minute book or two from this camp that has not been donated yet, which could help explain the inevitable demise of Pat Cleburne Camp No. 222, United Confederate Veterans.
Series includes a wide variety of correspondence to and from the Waco chapter of the United Confederate Veterans. Many of the letters have something to do with “Decoration Day,” the precursor to Memorial Day. Other letters address membership matters, dues, and contact with the national office of the United Confederate Veterans. The series is in good to excellent condition.
This small series includes a printed copy of the camp’s constitution and bylaws, as of 1893. This booklet is in excellent condition.
This series contains receipts for Decoration Day flower purchases and five ledger books detailing all camp purchases for 38 years. These ledgers also note all dues paid to the camp. This series is in average to good condition.
This series, the largest in the collection, includes programs, rosters, clippings, minutes, and printed materials generated by the camp. Most of the clippings describe United Confederate Veterans national news, general information about the Civil War, or about specific generals. Some clippings describe the Waco camp, but not many compared to the larger general clippings selection. The minutes include 3 books and 29 folders spanning 1889-1937, with no noted breaks. This series is in average to good condition.
This small series includes several photographs of Waco veterans. This series is in good to excellent condition.
This series includes several newspapers from various cities detailing the United Confederate Veterans reunions held there. The reunion ribbon is from the 1894 Waco reunion. This series is in average to excellent condition.
This collection includes a Confederate army pass to a T. Coleman, authorized by a lieutenant on 1863 January 23. With only one handwritten manuscript in this collection, it has not been possible to positively identify any name within this collection. With only two organized Confederate forces in Mississippi on 1863 January, the pass had to come from either Nathan Bedford Forrest’s cavalry command or Joseph E. Johnston’s emerging army around Jackson. It would not be possible for anyone to receive a pass from within John C. Pemberton’s army in Vicksburg, since they were under siege at the time. The closest match to either name is a Thomas S. Coleman in Company H, 32nd Georgia Infantry. This unit was in Jackson at the time, but there is no lieutenant on the roster with initials that fit the lieutenant that gave Coleman the pass.
With such an absence of information, T. Coleman continues to remain anonymous.
Included in this series is one army pass issued to T. Coleman.
Aaron Washington Dunn, born in Macon, Georgia, in 1845 April 12, came to Texas with his family in 1854 and settled close to Belton. With family and friends still in Georgia, Dunn moved back and forth between Georgia and Texas several times. It seems he enlisted in Company B, 15th Texas Infantry, under Colonel James Edward Harrison. The 15th Infantry had originally been the 1st Texas Infantry Battalion under Joseph W. Speight, but was reorganized as a regiment in 1862, when Dunn enlisted. Though it is not mentioned in the legally binding pension papers, Aaron seems to have enlisted as a musician. Dunn served with the 15th Texas for the rest of the war in Indian Territory, Louisiana, and Arkansas as part of Walker’s Texas Division, Trans-Mississippi Department. His time in the army was marked by many small skirmishes, with probably his only big battle coming in 1864 at Mansfield, Louisiana, as part of the Red River Campaign. The regiment disbanded on 1865 May 26. It is said he served also in a Georgia unit during the Civil War, but there is no mention of Georgia service in the pension papers. After Aaron left the army, he went back to his native Georgia for a time, but soon returned to Texas, this time settling in Coryell County. In 1871 March 23, A.W. married Caledonia Elizabeth Pruitt Walker Dunn, who was from Coryell County. During this time Dunn was very involved with Texas Baptist groups and was a trustee of Baylor University in Independence in 1885. At the Baptist state convention that year, he offered the resolution for removing Baylor University from Independence and merging Waco and Baylor Universities together to form present-day Baylor University. Dunn later served on the committee to move Baylor Female College to Belton, Texas, which became the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor. Aaron and Caledonia were also major financial contributors to Texas Baptist programs in the late 1800s. Aaron’s first wife Caledonia died in 1899. In 1901, Aaron married Margaret “Maggie” Bishop Dunn. Dunn had moved to West Texas in 1880, founding Colorado City, and was involved in mercantile, banking, and ranching activities in the area. At the age of eighty-seven, Aaron Washington Dunn died in 1933 January 28. Maggie lived on, close to her son who lived in Odessa, until 1966 July 31. Maggie received a pension for her husband’s service in the Civil War until her death, as documented in this collection Series includes correspondence to and from Texas state officials about the pension applications. All papers in this series are photocopies. The series is in excellent condition.
This series contains copies of pension applications for A.W. Dunn. This series is in excellent condition.
Nathan B. Holder was born in 1823 in Wilkes County, North Carolina. At some point he came to Texas. He married Martha Livingston Holder on March 10, 1840. The couple had six children: Charity Elizabeth Holder Cooper, Nancy Holder Kuykendal, Pauline "Caroline" Holder Hampton, Sarah Jane Holder Denson, Martha Holder Burks, and William Holder. When the Civil War began, Holder enlisted in the 7th Texas Infantry Regiment, Texas Militia, but was captured in November 1863 in Louisiana. He was exchanged and furloughed home, but enlisted again in Company C, 7th Texas Cavalry, part of Bagby’s Brigade, Thomas Green’s Division. Holder probably participated in the Red River Campaign in 1864, but was captured again at Cross Bayou, Louisiana, in 1864 August. This time he was taken to Elmira Prison in New York, where he died on 1865 March 1.
Series includes Nathan B. Holder’s letters home while he served in the Texas Militia and the Confederate army during the American Civil War. The series is in excellent condition.
Series includes muster rolls of Nathan B. Holder in prison during the American Civil War. The series is in average to excellent condition.
John Nathaniel Henderson was born in Abbeville District, South Carolina, on 1843 February 26. His family moved to Texas in 1848, and John attended Baylor University in Independence starting in 1858. Henderson enlisted along with nearly all male Baylor students in Company E, the “Dixie Blues,” part of the 5th Texas Infantry Regiment. As part of the Texas Brigade in Robert E. Lee’s Army of Northern Virginia, the 5th Texas Infantry fought in all the major eastern battles of the war, as some of the finest troops in the Confederate Army. Henderson, however, was wounded at the Battle of Antietam, and suffered the loss of his arm. He returned to Texas and began teaching at Baylor University starting in 1863. He also drilled the male students on campus and served on the staff of Washington County native General Jerome B. Robertson. After the war, Henderson studied law with several other young men, including two of his brothers. One of these men who studied law with Henderson, J.S. Perry, wrote a eulogy that is in the John Nathaniel Henderson collection. Despite Reconstruction, Henderson’s law practice did quite well, and he was elected district attorney of Bryan in 1874. Henderson won a term as state senator in 1880, and was elected as district judge in 1890. Perry credits him with removing many of the corrupt and lawless people who had come to Brazos County during Reconstruction. In 1894 John Henderson was made a justice on the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. He also had time to publish a legal book, The Lease System in Texas. John Henderson married twice, the first time to Hester Hubert, and the second time to Kate Evans. John and Hester had one child, while John and Kate had three children. Neither date of his marriages is known. John Nathaniel Henderson died on 1907 December 22. The collection contains reminisces about Henderson from some of his friends about his service in the Confederate army and his time at Baylor University. His friend J.S. Perry especially provides many details about Baylor in Independence in these reminisces, though the stories do not relate to Henderson directly.
Series includes letters of eulogies and reminisces of John Nathaniel Henderson at Baylor in Independence and during his service in the Confederate army during the American Civil War. The series is in good to excellent condition.
Series includes eulogies and reminisces of John Nathaniel Henderson at Baylor in Independence and during his service in the Confederate army during the American Civil War. The series is in average to excellent condition.
The religious sects known as the Davidians and Branch Davidians were the products of a reform movement within the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Problems began when a group of Adventists, led by Bulgarian immigrant Victor Houteff, began to challenge the traditional hierarchy of the denomination. Houteff claimed to have received personal revelations from God and published his controversial views in a book entitled The Shepherd’s Rod (1932). Houteff and his followers, the Davidians, believed that the spiritual gift of prophecy was necessary for effective leadership so that King David’s earthly kingdom could be re-established on earth prior to the second coming of Jesus Christ. After the leaders of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church excommunicated his sect, Houteff moved to Waco, Texas, and continued to preach until his death in 1955. Following Houteff’s death and subsequent divisions among the Davidians, Benjamin Roden and his wife Lois rose to power over a new sect called the Branch Davidians. This couple led the Branch Davidians well into the 1980s. Some of their work including sermons, pamphlets, and personal correspondence are found in the Mark Swett Collection. The 1980s brought about division within the Branch Davidian sect. A newcomer named Vernon Howell had joined the Branch in 1981. Three years later, a schism occurred within the Branch Davidians, with Howell leading his own group of followers to a new site in Palestine, Texas. Through a series of confrontations between Howell and George Roden, the son of Ben and Lois Roden, control of the Branch Davidians’ headquarters in Waco passed to Howell who legally changed his name to David Koresh in 1990. Rumors concerning polygamy, abuse, and arms dealing within the Branch Davidian group aroused the suspicions of the federal government. Thus, federal agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives began to monitor the group. In response to a stockpiling of illegal weapons, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives secured a search warrant for the investigation of the Branch Davidians’ compound near Waco, Texas. From 1993 February 28th until April 19th, Branch Davidians under the leadership of David Koresh resisted federal agents’ attempts to storm their Mount Carmel Center. The fifty-day siege ended when the compound erupted in flames, killing David Koresh and most of his followers. Branch Davidian Amo Paul Bishop married George Roden in 1987 October. A month later, the infamous shootout between George Roden and Vernon Howell over leadership of the sect resulted in the expulsion of the Rodens from the Mount Carmel property. After her husband was convicted of murder in 1989 and sent to a mental institution, Amo divorced George but used her marriage in an effort to claim the mantle of spiritual leadership within the Davidian sect following the death of David Koresh. She moved into the rubble of Mount Carmel months after the siege took place and began collecting materials to defend the Davidians’ theology and explain their point of view concerning the events of 1993. Many of these writings were donated to The Texas Collection. For autobiographical material concerning her life as a Branch Davidian, see Roden’s work entitled The Second Standoff.
This series contains books, sermons and printed materials collected by Amo Paul Bishop Roden. Particular emphasis is placed on the Davidians' and Branch Davidians' theology.
Ernest Connally was a citizen of Groesbeck, Texas, by 1936. It is possible that he was a member of the politically influential Connally family of Central Texas. In the 1930s, Connally was the president of the Fort Parker Association, the organization responsible for planning the centennial celebration for the fort. E.L. Connally, as he was popularly referred to, operated the Connally Funeral Home in Groesbeck, Texas, which is still in business as of 2011. Connally was active in many historic site projects in Central Texas, but he is most identified with Old Fort Parker. This collection reflects his interest in that park, primarily centering around the Parker family. The Parker family came to Texas from Illinois in 1833, and settled north of Groesbeck in 1835. The small group built a fort for defense in case of Indian attacks, and concentrated on farming. On 1836 May 19 the fort was attacked by an Indian force of several hundred warriors, long understood by eyewitnesses to be Comanche Indians. Several Parker family members were killed and others were captured, but many escaped. The few who were captured endured the loss of everything they knew. Different captives had different experiences. Eventually all of the captives were released and went back to their family in Texan society, but one girl, Cynthia Ann Parker, remained behind. Cynthia Ann Parker, just twelve or thirteen when taken captive, was adopted into the tribe and became thoroughly Comanche. She married warrior Peta Nocona, who might have taken part in the attack on the Parker’s fort. Cynthia and Peta had three children together, two boys and a girl, Quanah, Pecos, and Topsannah. Peta Nocona was possibly killed in the Battle of the Pease River in 1860. Cynthia Ann was recaptured by Texas Rangers in this battle, and was identified as the Parker’s Cynthia Ann, who had been with the Comanche for almost twenty-five years. Though she was returned to Texan society, Cynthia Ann never recovered from her capture and made several attempts to escape back to her life on the plains. She died in 1870, widely understood to have passed away from a broken heart. She was buried in Fosterville Cemetery, Anderson County, but was reinterred in the Post Oak Mission Cemetery near Cache, Oklahoma, in 1910. Cynthia Ann was reburied a final time in 1957 in the Fort Sill Post Cemetery, Lawton, Oklahoma. Cynthia Ann’s son Quanah Parker, not captured at the Battle of the Pease River, became the last major Comanche chief to surrender to United States authorities. A warrior in the Quahada subtribe of the Comanche, Quanah surrendered with what remained of his people in 1875. He adjusted to reservation life easily, and became a very wealthy man considering the circumstances he and his people were in. Though increasingly powerful in Indian-government relations, he could not stop the movement to break up the reservations and distribute the land among the individual Indians, who were then forced to sell much of their land by unscrupulous land dealers. Quanah continued his efforts to help his people however he could. After a visit to the Cheyenne Reservation, Quanah became ill and died twelve days later, in 1911. His remains have been moved once, from Post Oak Mission Cemetery in Oklahoma to Fort Sill Post Cemetery, Lawton, Oklahoma. The fort the Parkers built in 1835 was destroyed by the Indian raiding party. In the 1930s, the site was selected as a work area for the Civilian Conservation Corps, along with another nearby site along the Navasota River. A replica fort was built on the fort site, while a 670 acre lake was built on the river, together with camping and outdoor recreational facilities. Both sites took the name Fort Parker, both were operated after being built by Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, and for a time they were complexed together for more efficient operation by the department. Over time, locals began referring to the fort site as Old Fort Parker, and the lake site as Fort Parker State Park. The replica fort at the Old Fort site was rebuilt in 1967. Today, the Old Fort is operated jointly by the nearby cities of Groesbeck, Mexia, and Limestone County. Fort Parker State Park continues to operate as a Texas Parks and Wildlife Department site. Because of the close connection between both Fort Parkers, there is a limited amount of Fort Parker State Park materials within this collection. Several pictures from a third local historic site, the Confederate Reunion Grounds State Historic Site, can also be found in this collection.
Series includes letters about the grand opening of Old Fort Parker and Fort Parker State Parks as state parks for the local community. Correspondence also includes answers to Connally’s questions about Quanah Parker’s wives and children, the physical status of the Old Fort through the years, and other matters pertaining to Old Fort Parker. The series is in good to excellent condition.
Series includes legal documents pertaining to the Parker family and the reburial of Cynthia Ann Parker in 1956-1957. The series is in good to excellent condition.
Series includes a large number of excellent photographs around the Mexia area, emphasizing Old Fort Parker, Fort Parker State Park, and the Confederate Reunion Grounds State Historic Site. Of particular interest are the aerial pictures of Fort Parker State Park, perhaps taken during the 1940s, that show outlines of the major buildings, roads, and cleared and forested areas. Other photographs include general pictures of American Indians and copies of historic pictures of Quanah Parker and his family. The series is in average to excellent condition.
Series includes one wooden Centennial nickel. This square-shaped piece of wood was given out by the Mexia and Groesbeck Chambers of Commerce during the 1936 Centennial, and was used as a kind of currency during the festivities. The series is in excellent condition.
The Independence Historical Society is the oldest historic preservation organization still active in Independence, Texas. Following in the footsteps of earlier groups, such as the Independence Homecoming Association and the Baylor Historical Society, the group has always had close ties to Baylor University. The society today owns and operates the John P. Coles House and Asbury-Daniels House, both early Texas houses in Independence, as well as undertake other preservation and beautification projects about the village. Started in 1965, the society was dedicated to historic preservation around Independence, Texas. During the 1960s the society kept busy erecting Texas Historical Markers around the village. To raise the money for these historical markers, the group sold notepaper and commemorative plates embellished with drawings of historic buildings from the area. In 1969 the society took on the project of restoring the Nancy Lea burial vault across from Independence Baptist Church. Applications for historical markers and various manuscripts from selling notepaper and commemorative plates are preserved within the collection, along with articles of incorporation and other documents from the society’s founding. The society worked on additional projects in the 1970s. These included clearing and preserving the Independence cemetery, restoring the Nancy Lea vault across from Independence Baptist Church, adding a gate at the cemetery and a flagpole at the town square, and placing 5 more historical markers around the village. An essay about preserving the Nancy Lea vault is housed in the records. During the 1970s the group also acquired their first historic house. The John P. Coles House, which was moved from its original site to a spot near Old Baylor Park, was restored in the early 1970s. The society also began a popular docent program to provide tours of the Coles House. In 1975 someone ran into the Coles House with a vehicle, making extensive repairs to the east side of the house necessary. A thorough restoration survey of the Coles House, together with other documents from this period are preserved within this collection. In the 1980s the society took on another early Texas house, the Asbury-Daniels House. This structure was moved to the current location, and was also staffed with docents and open to the public. Among other documents, a restoration proposal on the Asbury-Daniels House from this period is housed in these records. In the late 1990s, the Independence Historical Society was joined by another organization in helping to preserve historical Independence. The Independence Preservation Trust, formed in 1999, also began preservation efforts around the town. At the start of the 21st century, the Independence Historical Society continued their work at historic Independence by keeping their historic houses open to the public through docent-led tours. Baylor University also experienced a renaissance in their interest in Independence, the town that had once hosted Baylor University’s original campus. Baylor partnered with the Independence Preservation Trust to open a historical park on the site of the former men’s campus in 2006, and in 2010 Baylor partnered with the Independence Historical Society to open the historic Adobe Toalson house as the Independence Visitor Center. The Independence Historical Society continues today in their historic preservation efforts through regular meetings, volunteer docent-led tours of their two historic homes, and providing information to the public at the Independence Visitor Center.
Correspondence to and from leaders and members of the Independence Historical Society. Many of the letters have to do with reminding members about various upcoming functions of the society. All original manuscripts were copied during processing, with only the copies filed due to extensive damage to the originals. Series is in excellent condition.
Legal manuscripts detailing the society’s founding, and inventories of historical artifacts in the John P. Coles House. Other documents pertain to the insurance taken out by the society for their properties and a survey of the town square to establish boundaries and ownership. All original manuscripts were copied during processing, with only the copies filed due to extensive damage to the originals.
Series contains financial information pertaining to the Independence Historical Society, their historic properties, and various fundraising activities. All original manuscripts were copied during processing, with only the copies filed due to extensive damage to the originals.
This series includes essays, membership information, docent materials, pamphlets, essays, minutes, and clippings pertaining to the Independence Historical Society and historic preservation efforts in Washington County. All original manuscripts were copied during processing, with only the copies filed due to extensive damage to the originals.
This series contains photographs of historic properties around Independence, plus other pictures pertaining to the Independence Historical Society and historic preservation in Washington County. All original photographs were copied during processing, with only the copies filed due to extensive damage to the originals. The one exception to this is the original Baylor Centennial photograph, which was kept.
Smith’s-Turner’s artillery battery operated for the entire war. The unit, raised in Clarke County, Mississippi, was originally intended to be an infantry company, but was consolidated with another company and turned into artillery. The two amalgamated units were commanded by Captain Melancthon Smith, a native of Alabama who had served in the United States army and attended West Point. The artillery battery served with Leonidas Polk’s Army of the Mississippi , which operated along the Mississippi River. By 1862, Polk’s army, including Smith’s-Turner’s Battery, was called upon for every major Civil War campaign in the west, including the battles of Shiloh, Perryville, Stone’s River, Chickamauga, Chattanooga, Atlanta, and Mobile. Captain Smith prior to the 1862 Kentucky Campaign was promoted to chief of artillery for the division, and William B. Turner became acting battery commander. Smith later became the chief of artillery for Hardee’s Corps during the Atlanta Campaign, with the rank of Colonel. Smith’s-Turner’s Artillery Battery ended the war in Alabama, with Smith as overall artillery commander, and Turner in command of the battery.
Series includes an account book kept by the battery during the American Civil War of equipment issued to the men, plus several general orders and other notes.
Organized in 1866, New Hope Baptist Church is one of the oldest African-American churches in Waco, Texas. Noted throughout their history for their excellent church music programs, New Hope continues to work for God’s glory in the Waco African-American community today. After the end of the American Civil War, emancipation came to the African-American people in the Waco community. Though the enslaved people of the area had been allowed limited worship opportunities at First Baptist Church of Waco, the newly liberated people of the community looked to form their own church. With new hope for the future, eighteen African-Americans from First Baptist Church created their own missionary Baptist church in 1866, with assistance from Baylor University President Rufus Burleson and First Baptist Pastor S.G. O’Bryan. The name “New Hope” was selected as the name for the new church, suggested by longtime resident Stephen Cobb. The new church quickly became the most prestigious African-American church in Waco. Despite the church’s youth, New Hope outgrew their first church home, an old foundry building on the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Sixth Street, in one year. In partnership with a local Methodist church, New Hope built its first permanent church structure in 1867. That building did not last very long before it was destroyed to make way for a school. New Hope rented the school on Sunday mornings for services for several years until 1873, when they built a modest wooden church elsewhere. In 1884 under the leadership of the church’s seventh pastor, a large two-story brick church was built for the still-growing church. This served the church until the current church was built in 1923 at the corner of Sixth Street and Marlborough Avenue. The collection contains minutes chronicling the story of New Hope starting in 1875. After Stephen Cobb, the most influential pastor of New Hope was Dr. J. Newton Jenkins, who served as pastor from 1907 until 1950. As the tenth pastor of New Hope, Jenkins is credited with raising enough money to pay off all debts in his first ninety days on the job. Jenkins and the church members also worked together to build the current church at Sixth and Marlborough. The eleventh pastor of New Hope, Dr. Marvin C. Griffin, pioneered a radio ministry, a citywide transportation system to the church on Sunday, and oversaw a proliferation of ministry groups within the church to do everything from training future church leaders to women’s ministry. The most recent pastor, Reginald D. Terry, began his ministry in 1986. Legal documents, minutes, financial papers, photographs, and many other printed materials detail New Hope’s building programs and other activities from this era. From at least 1905, and probably before that, New Hope Baptist Church was noted for its music programs. First led by Dr. G.S. Conner, New Hope had at least forty people in their choir by 1905. In conjunction with students from Paul Quinn College, New Hope pioneered a musical program that had an adult choir, a children’s choir, and an orchestra. Notable members through the years were Jules Bledsoe, later an international African-American opera star, and Vivienne Malone-Mayes, one of the first African-Americans to receive advanced degrees in mathematics and the first African-American professor at Baylor University. In fact, Vivienne directed the youth choir of New Hope for fifteen years. The collection contains programs and photographs of the New Hope music ministry dating to the early 1900s, including a piano recital program for then fourteen year old Vivienne Malone Mayes. Based in its rich heritage as one of the oldest African-American churches in the Waco area, New Hope Baptist Church continues to worship and minister at its historical 1920s church today.
The Correspondence series contains letters mostly connected with building the new church building in the 1920s. There was evidently some confusion on work orders and insurance, as insurance was claimed and multiple letters went back and forth between the contractor and the church correcting various features of the new church building. This series is in poor to average condition.
The Legal Documents series contains various legal forms relating to the buying and selling of church land, building the new 1920s church building, and a 1955 appraisal of the church building. The contracts folder includes contracts on everything from the glass windows to the roof of the new 1920s church building. This series is in average condition.
This series includes tithes, ledgers, budgets, and other financial materials relating to New Hope Baptist Church. Many of the bills, receipts, and statements pertain to building the 1920s church. This series is in poor to good condition.
This series contains broadsides, minutes, essays, programs, art, and directories, scrapbook materials, clippings, books, and other printed materials. The church conference minutes extend almost the entire time New Hope has been in existence. The programs include performances by New Hope’s choirs and orchestra and solo performances by members of New Hope, including a piano recital by Vivienne Malone-Mayes.
This series includes pictures of various groups, people, and buildings connected with New Hope Baptist Church. Many of these pictures feature the New Hope choirs and orchestras. Several pictures were taken by noted Waco photographer Fred Gildersleeve. The series is in poor to good condition.
Richard Coke was born in 1829 March 13 near Williamsburg, Virginia, to John and Eliza Hankins Coke. He apparently received good primary education, since he entered William and Mary College in 1843, graduating in 1848 with a law degree. In 1850 he moved to Waco, Texas, perhaps looking for a place on the frontier that he could use his skills as a lawyer. His law business did very well, and he became known for his abilities in both civil and criminal law cases. Richard married Waco girl Mary Evans Horne in 1852. Though the couple had four children, none of them lived to adulthood.
Several letters, receipts, and legal forms are in the collection from these early years of Coke’s life. Richard Coke’s political career began in 1859 when he was appointed by Texas governor Hardin R. Runnels to a commission that decided the Comanche Indians must be removed from Texas. Coke was a delegate to the Texas Secession Convention, voting for secession. During the American Civil War, he was captain of Company K, 15th Texas Infantry, under Colonel Joseph Warren Speight. As part of the 15th Texas, Coke fought in the Trans-Mississippi, including Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, and was wounded at the Battle of Bayou Bourbeau in 1863 November 3. With the war over, Coke was appointed judge of the Texas 19th Judicial District by Reconstruction Governor A.J. Hamilton. In 1866 Richard Coke was elected as justice of the state supreme court, but was removed by General Philip H. Sheridan when the Radical Republican Congress divided the South into military-controlled districts in 1867. Coke continued his efforts to influence Texas political life, and was elected as the first post-war Democratic governor of Texas in 1873 by over forty thousand votes. His victory was bitterly contested by the state Republican Party, the state supreme court, and outgoing Governor Edmund J. Davis, but he took office in 1874 January with popular majority backing. The collection\ contains several documents written during the Civil War, as well as several certificates from right after the war. As governor, Richard Coke pushed for undoing many of programs adopted during Republican rule of Texas. He cut spending by reducing funding for state asylums, state printing, and decentralizing the school system, but the savings were wiped out by increasing the military presence on the Texas-Mexico border and guarding the frontier from Comanche and Kiowa trying to regain their land and way of life. As part of his rollback of Republican programs, Coke and the Democratic-controlled Congress passed a new state constitution. Voters expressed their approval of his actions by reelecting Richard Coke as governor in 1876, but he resigned in 1877 upon his election as United States senator. There are almost no manuscripts directly from Coke’s time as governor, though several letters and other documents date from his years in the United States senate. Coke’s career in the United States senate lasted for seventeen years. During that time, he earned a reputation as an informed senator who generally voted in line with other Southern Democrats. He opposed federal aid to schools, tariffs to protect domestic manufacturing, suspending silver coinage, and providing federal army protection to elections threatened by intimidation. Coke supported the Bland-Allison Act of 1878 and the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. He did not run for reelection in 1894. After retirement from political life, Richard Coke did some farming along the Brazos River. However, he enjoyed retirement for only three years before he died at his home in Waco in 1897 May 14. Luminaries such as the governor of Texas at the time were pallbearers during his funeral at Oakwood Cemetery, Waco. Richard Coke is remembered today for his election as the first post-Civil War Democratic governor of Texas. Much of the collection was gathered by the McCelvey family, especially by Mary Elizabeth “Honey” Horne McCelvey, who was the niece of Richard Coke’s wife Mary Evans Horne Coke. Mary Horne McCelvey apparently lived with Richard and Mary Coke during the last six years of Richard’s life, and eventually inherited many of his historical manuscripts.
This series contains correspondence to and from Richard Coke during most of his life. A letter during the American Civil War addresses him as captain. Other letters date from his years in the United States Senate.
This series contains general legal documents and land deeds dating from before the Republic of Texas. One of the land deeds was to Asa Hoxey.
This series contains receipts for various monetary amounts. One is made out to the Republic of Texas treasurer Henry Smith, for a firm in New Orleans to pay one thousand dollars upon receipt of the bill.
This series contains various speeches, genealogy materials, clippings, and certificates. Richard Coke gave the speeches while he was a United States senator. The certificates are from the end of the American Civil War, made out by Texas governor A.J. Hamilton to Richard Coke.
This series includes five scrapbooks containing correspondence, literary productions, and photographs. The scrapbooks give details about Richard Coke and his family, plus other state and local events that occurred while Richard Coke was still active in politics. There is one Gildersleeve photograph preserved in this series. Scrapbooks one through three have been copied onto acid-free paper, while scrapbooks four and five are still in their original binding. The last two scrapbooks contain only photographs.
This series contains several photographs of Richard Coke and several unidentified men. Most of the photographs in this collection are in the scrapbooks series. This Isaac Parks, like many men born in the Old South before the Civil War, led a mobile life, always looking for better opportunities. He was born in Monroe County, Georgia, in 1810, and probably married his wife Martha Parks at some point while in Georgia. The Parks had at least one child during his over thirty year stay in Georgia. In 1844, the Parks moved to Chambers County, Alabama, then to Grimes County, Texas, in 1853. By 1860, right before the Civil War, Isaac and Martha had a prospering farm near Anderson, Grimes County. Isaac, along with other farmers in the area, formed an agricultural society in 1855. He accepted two committee positions, one to write a constitution, and the other on “hillside ditching.” In keeping with his agricultural activities, Isaac may have also set up a cotton gin to process the cotton crop. At some point in the 1860s Isaac also became a pastor for his community. The 1860 population census for that year indicates the Parks had five children at the time, two boys born in Alabama, and a girl and two more boys born in Texas. At the start of the war, Isaac was fifty-one years old, too old to be in the Confederate army, but he was in the nominal Texas militia for Grimes County. After the war, Isaac continued noting his activities in his diary during Reconstruction in Texas. His diary continues until 1877, the same year that he died in Grimes County at sixty-eight years old. Isaac Parks’ diary and associated letters continue to provide important information about daily life in Civil War Texas, including information on the weather, crops, Parks’ neighbors, and local social occurrences.
This series contains letters to and from Isaac Parks, his brother-in-law E.G. Cabiness, Parks’ daughter-in-law. All letters are typed copies, there are no original letters in this collection. This series is in good condition.
This series contains Isaac Parks lengthy diary of 151 typed pages. Diary contains much information about his daily life, with entries for nearly every day. Entire diary is a typed copy, there are no original diary pages in this collection. This series is in excellent condition.
Oscar Henry Cooper, who was often referred to as O. H. Cooper by his contemporaries, was born in Panola County, Texas, to Dr. William Henry and Katherine Rosser Cooper on 1852 November 22. His long academic record shows him to be a brilliant scholar as well as a noted public educator in the United States and Germany. After studying for two years at Marshall University, Cooper transferred and completed his undergraduate work at Yale University where he graduated as the valedictorian of the class of 1872. His prolific work in the educational field included teaching positions at Henderson Male and Female College (1873-1879), Sam Houston Normal Institute (2 years), and a return to Yale University. He received his graduate education while attending the University of Berlin from 1884 to 1885. Upon returning to the United States, Cooper pursued teaching positions at the secondary level, working as the principal of Houston High School, the Texas State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the superintendent of Galveston-area schools (1890-1896). Amidst all these career pursuits, on 1886 November 24, Cooper married Mary Brian Stewart. They had four children.
 Cooper’s success as an educator and his devotion to his Baptist roots led to his appointment as the President of Baylor University from 1899 to 1902. With Cooper as President, Baylor gained national acclaim. Most of the school’s degrees were recognized for the first time by the more established eastern universities, the Department of Pedagogy was officially created, and the Department of Theology was expanded. The school also received substantial grants and scholarships during this period including $75,000 each from F.L. Carroll and his son George to build a chapel, library, and science building. These were the largest donations in Texas school history at the time. In 1914, Baylor University awarded Cooper an honorary doctoral degree. The story of Cooper’s resignation from Baylor University is odd for such a distinguished teacher and leader. According to Baylor University’s website, a couple of students snuck a dog into chapel service one day. When the dog started barking, Cooper became enraged and threw the dog out a window from the third floor. Students protested the act, and Cooper resigned on 1902 March 31. He then went on to Simmons College from 1902 to 1909, enjoying similar successes. From 1909 to 1915, Cooper established a school for boys in Abilene. His last position before retirement was at the University of Texas at Austin. Cooper had been instrumental in the establishment of the University of Texas in Austin during the 1880s, and later served as a professor of history and the philosophy of education there. Cooper died in Abilene, Texas, on 1932 August 22.
The correspondence series, the largest series in the collection, includes letters to and from former Baylor President O. H. Cooper. Most of the letters are exchanged between Cooper and potential employees. This series is in excellent condition.
The series includes one item: a financial ledger. It is, however, in poor condition.
The literary productions series contains a folder of printed materials and three books containing transcriptions of Cooper’s personal correspondence. This series is in average to good condition.
Robert Emmett Bledsoe Baylor, or R. E. B. Baylor, was born in Lincoln County, Kentucky, on 1793 May 10. His parents, Walker and Jane Bledsoe Baylor, had six children. Walker had served in the Continental Army as a member of the 3rd Light Dragoons. He was eventually promoted to captain and served as an orderly on General George Washington’s staff. Walker’s son Robert attended country schools for most of his adolescence. He was admitted to the bar in 1812, but postponed his legal career to fight in the War of 1812. As a member of the Kentucky Militia, Baylor participated in battles in Ohio Territory and in the ill-fated invasion of Canada. After the end of the War of 1812, Baylor studied law with his uncle, Judge Jesse Bledsoe and became well-known throughout the area. In 1819, R.E.B. Baylor was elected to the Kentucky State Legislature. His reputation continued to grow after moving to Tuscaloosa, Alabama. In 1824, Baylor was elected to the Alabama State Legislature and became a United States Representative from that state in 1828. In 1836, Baylor led a battalion of Alabama volunteers against the Creek Indians. One of the defining moments of R.E.B. Baylor’s life came in 1839 with his conversion to Christianity. He was ordained shortly after his conversion experience, leaving his flourishing political career in Alabama behind to spread the Gospel. At the age of forty-six, Baylor moved to Texas where he continued to devote his life to law and his new faith. In 1841, he was appointed an associate justice of Texas’ Supreme Court. While judging cases around the state, he presided over the first district court held in Waco and preached perhaps the first sermon offered in Waco. He was involved in a number of religious organizations including the Texas Baptist Education Society, the Union Association, and the Texas Baptist State Convention. He had joined the Freemasons in 1825 and served as a chaplain for that society in 1843, 1846, and 1847. Baylor was also instrumental in founding Baylor University, named for him when it was chartered in 1845. Despite his involvement as donor and law professor, Baylor was never a president of the school. Although Baylor was never married nor had children, he was quite close to his nephew John Baylor, as John lived with him for a time and wrote to him often when he left Robert Baylor’s house. John Baylor led an adventurous life of his own as a noted Indian fighter, commander of the first Confederate invasion of New Mexico in the American Civil War, Confederate congressman, and gunfighter. After a life of faith in God and public service to three states, Robert Baylor died on 1873 December 30. He was buried at Baylor University’s original campus in Independence, Texas, but his remains were transferred to the University of Mary-Hardin Baylor in 1917.
The correspondence series, the largest series in the collection, includes the correspondence of Baylor President R. E. B. Baylor as well as that of his biographer, Joseph Hale.
This series includes legal documents including land deeds, certificates, treasury warrants, and a declaration of pension.
The literary productions series contains reminiscences of Judge Baylor, but primarily consists of articles, essays, and books detailing the biographical details of Baylor’s life.
This series, the largest in the collection, contains William Carey Crane’s correspondence about Baylor University, the Civil War, and Baptists in Texas.
This series contains William Carey Crane’s correspondence with various individuals, universities, and conventions.
This series contains letters and books exchanged between William Carey Crane and his immediate and extended family. The materials are organized by individual.
This series, consisting of one folder, contains three briefs pertaining to William Carey Crane’s presidency at Baylor.
This series contains diaries, sermons, scrapbooks, notebooks, and printed materials pertaining to Crane’s life, particularly his vocations of minister and teacher.
This series contains photographs, visiting cards, and prints pertaining to William Carey Crane and his immediate family.
John Ireland was a man known for his public service and political activism. The son of Patrick and Rachel Newton Ireland, John was born in Millerstown, Kentucky, on 1827 January 21. As a young man, Ireland engaged in local enforcement, serving as both the constable and sheriff of his home county. Ireland began studying law in 1851 at the age of twenty-four, passed the bar exam, and came to Texas, where he established a law firm in Seguin. Ireland’s reputation grew in Seguin to such a degree that within five years of his arrival, he had secured the position of mayor. As the representative of that town, Ireland attended the Secession Convention of 1861 and supported a break from the Union. An ardent Southerner, Ireland left his political and legal careers and volunteered as a private in the Confederate Army the following year. He eventually advanced to the rank of lieutenant colonel and was stationed on the Texas coast at the end of the war in 1865. After the war, Ireland served as a member of the Texas Constitutional Convention of 1866 and became a district judge from 1866 to 1867. Despite his removal from this position for impeding Reconstruction, John was elected to the House of Representatives in 1872 and then to the Senate of the Fourteenth Legislature. He served as an associate justice of the Texas Supreme Court until the Constitution of 1876 reduced the size of this judicial body. He failed in his attempts to win a seat in the U.S.
Senate (1876) as well as the U.S. House of Representatives (1878). Ireland was elected governor of Texas in 1882 and reelected in 1884. His administration was defined by the fence-cutting war of 1883 and strikes organized by the Knights of Labor in 1885 and 1886. It was also during his administration that the University of Texas was established and construction on the Texas State Capitol was begun. In 1887, Ireland once again lost his bid to serve in the U.S. Senate. After retiring from the political sphere, Ireland practiced law in Seguin until he died on 1896 March 18. This collection deals primarily with Ireland’s properties in Jones County, Texas, (2,573 acres) and the execution of his will. Problems arose from the fact that Ireland was the legal guardian of his grandson, Ireland Graves. Graves was only a fifteen year old minor when Ireland passed away. A dispute in the courts arose as to whom would be best suited to assume Ireland Graves’ guardianship and administer the land that he inherited.
These folders contain general correspondence written to and from Governor John Ireland. The letters relate to Ireland’s land investments and the execution of his will. There are also a number of transcriptions of letters exchanged between John Ireland and A.J. Fry. This series is in good condition.
This series is comprised of two folders relating to Governor Ireland’s land investments in Jones County, Texas, as well as the execution of his will. These materials are directly related to the correspondence from the previous series. These materials are in good condition.
This series consists of a map of Ireland’s plot of land located in Jones County, Texas, as well as notes concerning the dimensions of his property. Transcriptions recently added to the collection contain articles pertaining to Ireland’s funeral and the general state of Texas. These materials are in good condition.
George Washington Truett an acclaimed Baptist minister, was born in Clay County, North Carolina, on 1867 May 6. His parents were Charles L. and Mary R. (Kimsey) Truett. From an early age, Truett showed an interest in academics. He attended the Hayesville Academy near his home from 1875 to 1885. The direction of his life fundamentally changed after his conversion experience at a local evangelical revival in 1886. From that point forward, Truett devoted his life to the sharing of the gospel. In 1889, he followed his parents to Whitewright, Texas. While attending Grayson Junior College, Truett taught Sunday school and often filled in for the pastor at the local Baptist church. He was officially ordained as a Baptist minister in 1890. His powerful oratorical skills added to Truett’s growing reputation in Texas. In 1890, Truett joined the staff at Baylor University and was influential in paying a university debt of $92,000 in two years. He enrolled at the university as a student in 1893. To pay for his education, Truett preached at nearby East Waco Baptist Church. He married Josephine Jenkins on 1894 June 28. The couple had three daughters. After graduating in 1897, Truett accepted the pastorate at the First Baptist Church in Dallas. He held this position for forty-seven years, increasing the church membership from 715 to 7,804. During World War 1, Truett was appointed by President Woodrow Wilson to preach to American troops in Europe. On 1920 May 16, Truett delivered one of his most famous sermons on the steps of the U.S. Capitol concerning the principles of religious freedom and the separation of church and state. He was president of the Southern Baptist Convention from 1927-1929 as well as the president of Baptist World Alliance from 1934-1939. Truett was also able to publish many of his sermons in book form. Truett died in Dallas on 1944 July 7. The George W. Truett Theological Seminary, found on the Baylor University campus, was chartered in 1991 and named for Reverend Truett. The inaugural class graduated six years later.
This folder contains correspondence written by and to George W. Truett. Letters from the president of Grayson College and from Richard Holmes are included. This series is in good condition.
This series consists of a Baylor University commencement program, five religious tracts, and a memorial to George W. Truett. These materials are in good condition.
This series contains photographic materials pertaining to George W. Truett, Baptists, Baylor University, and the Franklin family. These materials are in good condition.
Thomas Terry Connally, more commonly referred to as Tom Connally, was a powerful legislator who represented the state of Texas during the 1920s, the Great Depression, and the World War II eras. Connally was born in McLennan County near Eddy, Texas, on 1877 August 19. He was the son of Jones and Mary Ellen Terry Connally. Jones had fought for the Confederacy during the Civil War. Even as a young adult, Connally was deeply involved in the public sphere. Connally received an A.B. degree from Baylor University in 1896 and a law degree from the University of Texas in 1898. Yet Connally set aside his legal ambitions to serve in the U.S. military during the conflict with Spain. In 1898, he joined the 2nd Texas Volunteer Infantry. Due to the short length of the war, Connally did not fight overseas. Upon returning to civilian life, Connally was admitted to the Texas Bar and established a law firm in Marlin, Texas. He entered politics a few years later. From 1901 to 1904, Connally served in the Texas House of Representatives. As a progressive politician, Connally fought against powerful monopolies by co-authoring the Texas Anti-Trust Law in 1903. After serving in the state legislature, Connally once again turned his focus to his legal career in Marlin. On 1904 November 16, he married Louise Clarkson of Marlin. They had one son, Benjamin C. Connelly, who would later serve as a Texas district judge (1949-1975).
Tom’s wife Louise died in 1935. Seven years later, Tom married Louise Sanderson Sheppard, a widow of former Texas Senator Morris Sheppard. From 1906 to 1910, Tom Connally served as the prosecuting attorney for Falls County. Connally returned to politics in 1916 when he won the House seat for the 11th Congressional District of Texas. After voting in favor of declaring war against Germany, Connally resigned his office and joined the 22nd Infantry Brigade. However, he did not serve overseas. When the war was over, Connally returned to the U. S. House of Representatives. He was appointed to the Committee on Foreign Affairs where he encouraged his fellow legislators to abandon isolationism. He earnestly fought for American adoption of the League of Nations and served as the U.S. delegate to the Inter-parliamentary Union in Geneva, Switzerland.
 After serving in the House for twelve years, Connally was elected to the Senate in 1928. Hisreputation for oratory quickly grew. He served on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for most of his tenure. He was active in creating the Charter of the United Nations in 1945 as well as garnering American support for the organization. As a Democrat, Connally supported the New Deal, but opposed President Roosevelt’s attempts to pack the Supreme Court. He is also known for proposing the Connally Act, a piece of legislation that prohibited the interstate sale of oil that had been refined in violation of state quotas. Overall, Connally served six terms as a U.S. Senator before retiring in 1953. In 1954, with the help of Alfred Steinberg, Connally composed his memoir. This work wasentitled My Name is Tom Connally. Connally died of pneumonia in Washington, D.C. on 1963 October 29. He was subsequently buried in Marlin, Texas.
This series contains personal letters of correspondence exchanged between Thomas Connally and his mother, his sister Lila McKay, and his niece Frances Andrews.
This series contains newspaper clippings pertaining to Connally’s life in politics, Congressional speeches made by Connally and other legislators, and other literary productions. A yearbook picture and profile from Connally’s time at Baylor University is included in the folder marked “biographical materials.” This series contains photographs of Tom Connally from his adolescence to his later years.
This series contains three dimensional artifacts including Senator Tom Connally’s name plate for the Senate Finance Committee and a pin in support of Connally’s senatorial campaign.
The Society of Southwest Archivists, founded in 1972, is the professional regional organization for archivists in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Oklahoma, Arkansas, and Louisiana. Organized to promote best archival practices, to educate members, and to foster interdisciplinary ties to historic preservation groups, the society has provided these services and more to hundreds of members throughout its history. A group of interested people met to form the society in May 1972. These original founders drafted a constitution and elected officers. The first annual meeting, which fulfilled many of the initial goals of the organization, was held in 1973 in Norman, Oklahoma. After the second meeting in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, meetings were held in Texas for the next eleven years, but moved around the region more after 1986. Governed by a president and other officers comprising the Executive Board, the society gradually added various committees over time to select annual meeting sites, to design programs for the annual meeting, to produce a newsletter (The Southwestern Archivist), and to complete various other organizational functions. The society has also developed several awards that have been given to members and non-members through the years. The Society of Southwest Archivists continues today to provide educational opportunities and promote best practices among its more than five hundred members.
This series contains correspondence, programs, minutes, registration forms, notes, and other materials pertaining to the annual meetings held by the Society of Southwest Archivists. The amount of material varies by year and relative proximity to Texas and The Texas Collection, so there are some notable gaps in the series. The materials, overall, are in good condition.
This series contains materials organized by committee, including correspondence, various financial and literary documents, and a few photographs. Some manuscripts in this series are closely related to specific annual meetings, such as the Site Selection Committee and the Local Arrangements Committee. The Executive Board correspondence filed as “Leon Miller” was kept together because it was numbered consecutively, even though Miller had served on many committees. Overall, the series is in excellent condition.
Series III. General Membership contains correspondence from archivists inquiring about their membership status in SSA, various letters written about relevant political bills, essays concerning the history of the society, membership directories, newsletters, and other printed materials. There are also a number of three-dimensional artifacts that were produced for various committees and annual meetings. Overall, the series is in good condition.
J. Frank Dobie was himself a legendary figure. Born in Texas in 1888, he grew up on the family ranch in Live Oak county, a heritage that stayed with him in his writings. Dobie completed an undergraduate degree from Southwestern University and a master’s degree from Columbia. He married Bertha McKee Dobie in 1916, and found work as a teacher, reporter, and finally became a university professor at the University of Texas in 1914. With the United States’ entrance into World War I, Dobie served two years in the army. Back in Texas, he breathed new life into the dormant Texas Folklore Society and did good work at the university, but left for a time when the school would not promote him. He returned after two years away in 1925 and published his first book, Vaquero of the Brush Country, in 1929. This launched a career of prolific book-publishing, briefly interrupted by World War II, which he spent on a leave of absence teaching American literature in England. Returning after the war, he applied again to teach abroad, and when rejected, he severed his ties forever with the University of Texas. With more time to write, he completed literary works at a rapid pace, finishing six in the 1950s. After writing numerous books, and given many awards, educator J. Frank Dobie died on 1964 September 18. He is buried in the Texas State Cemetery. With Dobie’s fascination with a good story, he was interested enough in Jim Bowie to write an essay for the book Heroes of Texas, which can be found in this collection. James Bowie, born in 1796, grew up in Louisiana as the son of a prominent plantation owner. He did various work on the frontier, including lumber work, slave trading, fighting in the War of 1812, and land speculation. Jim also earned notoriety as a knife fighter in the Sandbar Fight brawl. In the 1820s Bowie operated a plantation with several of his brothers in southern Louisiana which they sold in 1831 for $90,000. After a decade of plantation life, James Bowie set out for Texas, arriving in Nacogdoches in 1830. In Texas, Jim Bowie began new operations, marrying into the prominent Veramendi family of San Antonio and purchasing a textile mill for $20,000. He did not stay around San Antonio long, though, as he took several long scouting trips west of San Antonio, looking for abandoned silver mines. On one of these trips, his group of eleven held off a series of American Indian attacks for thirteen hours. He also participated in the 1832 Battle of Nacogdoches, a disagreement between Mexican authorities and American colonists which took place well before the Texas Revolution three years later.
In 1833, while Bowie was sick with yellow fever in Natchez, his wife’s parents, his wife, and his children all died of cholera in Monclava. These deaths deprived Bowie of his connection to the old Mexican families in Texas, but strengthened his interest in land speculation and in fighting for Texan freedom. When Stephen F. Austin called for an army to seize San Antonio in 1835, Bowie joined the rapidly-growing Texan army. He was the victorious commander in the Battle of Concepción, where his 92 men fought off 400 Mexican infantry and cavalry in a three-hour fight. Bowie also commanded a detachment in the Grass Fight close to San Antonio later in the campaign. Sam Houston dispatched Bowie from Goliad in 1836 with orders to destroy any fortifications, take command of any troops, and bring them to Houston, but Bowie spoke in favor of keeping the fortifications and stayed. The old Spanish mission of the Alamo became the main fort, where Bowie gathered various independent groups under his command. When the Mexican army under Santa Anna arrived in February, Bowie had pneumonia or tuberculosis, and was unable to help much in the defense of the Alamo. He died in 1836 March 6 along with the entire garrison after a thirteen-day siege. An account of Bowie’s life, along with J. Frank Dobie’s comments, can be found in the collection.
This series contains the book Heroes of Texas, a manuscript on Jim Bowie, and associated research notes. The series is in average condition.
Friend was born in 1856 to Nathaniel and Arimenta (Harrison) in Boligee, Alabama. After the death of her father, Friend and her mother visited Waco, Texas, in 1885 and made it their permanent residence. Friend displayed an early commitment and interest in education. Upon her arrival to Waco, she and her mother opened a private school in their home. “Miss Kate,” as she was known in the community, put her education and writing skills to use by becoming the editor of Texas Federation News. Her involvement with the Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs led to increased support for drinking fountains in public schools and improvements in city parks. In fact, Friend’s support of city parks led to the donation of land from the William Cameron Family, which became Cameron Park. During World War II, she served as president of the Waco Women’s War Service Club. Kate Harrison Friend died on 1949 May 14 at the age of ninety-three.
This series contains letters written to Kate Harrison Friend. The majority of the content of the letters pertains to Friend’s literary outlines of three Shakespearean plays, Taming of the Shrew, requests for copies of her written works, and thank you notes for her speaking engagements. The letters are mostly from admirers of Friend’s involvement with the Shakespeare Club and her work for the rights of women, children, and animals within the Waco community and McLennan County. This series is in average to good condition.
These literary productions include clippings related to Kate Harrison Friends’ speaking engagements, awards, celebrations on her behalf, her involvement with the Shakespeare Club, Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs, the Waco Humane Society, and her death. Additionally, this series includes general notes written by Friend, minutes for the Women’s Club in Waco, and programs related to Texas Federation of Women’s Clubs conventions. Three outline studies written by Friend of Shakespeare’s plays Taming of the Shrew are included. This series is in good condition.
This series includes five scrapbooks that were compiled by Kate Harrison Friend. The scrapbooks contain clippings related to Friend’s activities, letters and notes written to Friend, invitations to Friend, and pamphlets related to engagements for the Shakespeare Club. This series is in fair to average condition This series includes three matted photographs of Kate Harrison Friend. This series is in good condition.
Harry Allen Gillett was an educator in Waco, Texas. Born 1927 February 12 he earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees in elementary education (1948, 1952) from Baylor University. Harry Gillett passed away on 2008 October 12.
William Tracy Early was born on 1934 February 20 in Snyder, Texas, to Willis Worley Early and Lillian Marian Walton Early. Tracy was the eldest of three children, one of whom died as a child. He was a member of the Royal Ambassadors, a Southern Baptist organization for young boys grades 1-6.
Tracy published his first article in 1947 February for the Sidebars pages 499-500 for full listing of news services, published works, and years). Tracy Early died on 2005 December 16 at St. Luke’s Hospital in New York City. He was buried in Snyder, Texas on 2005 December 22.
This series contains all drafts, notes, research, clippings, and correspondence pertaining to articles that Tracy Early wrote and published. Arranged by publisher/news service that Tracy Early wrote for.
This series contains all Tracy Early’s personal diaries and personal correspondence with family members, most notably his mother, Lillian Early. Also included in this series are awards, certificates, and diplomas that Tracy Early earned over the course of his lifetime. Copies of scrapbooks are included and an index of deaccessioned planners.
This series contains all files that Tracy Early organized by subject. Included in this series are newspaper articles and clippings, materials pertaining to committees and associations he was on, schools he attended, churches he worked for, and information regarding his book Sidebars.
This series contains all general correspondence, to and from friends and business acquaintances of Tracy Early. The series is arranged by date, person to whom the letter is to or from, and topic.
This series contains materials written by Tracy Early during his academic careers at Baylor University, Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary, and Union Theological Seminary. The materials have been organized by type then alphabetized according to the title of the respective work. Most of Early’s works deal with theological issues such as Christian-Jewish relations, religion in politics, biblical exegeses, and discussions of famous theologians like John Calvin, Karl Barth, and Thomas Aquinas. Also included within the series is Early’s doctoral thesis from Union Theological Seminary.
This series contains sermons, outlines, addresses, and notes written by Tracy Early. It is comprised primarily of radio addresses and sermons. Tracy Early broadcasted devotionals across the airwaves for WDDY Gloucester from 1954 to 1967 and preached at Urbanna Baptist Church in Virginia from 1964 to 1968. The materials have been organized both by type and chronologically. Sermons have been identified according to the scripture reference.
This series contains an index citing all of the books belonging to the collection. Alsoincluded are photographs, clippings, and notes found within the pages of these books. Most of the books were gifts to Tracy Early and contain letters or acknowledgements to him. The majority of the books are available when searching on Bearcat. The notes are organized according to the author’s last name. If this is absent, then the title of the work is considered.
This series contains photographs of Tracy Early and friends. These photographs were not included in other series.
This series contains media, both audio and visual. There is a Department of Defense tape that has possible classified material. Two DVDs are of high school class reunions.
This series contains oversized material that could not be included in other series. Copies of the scrap book pages can be seen in the Personal Material series.
Historical and/or biographical information on Francisco Banda has not been discovered beyond what is in the collection. Apparently Francisco Banda wanted to bring in the harvest of his crops and his landlord, Clark Herring, wanted him to leave the property. This resulted in a brawl that included Herring, Banda, Banda’s wife, and a friend of Rosalio Delgado, a friend of Banda’s. Pat Neff, Texas governor at the time, was asked to intercede. The ultimate result of the dispute is unknown. With such an absence of information, Francisco Banda continues to remain anonymous.
Benjamin Rush Milam was born on 1788 October 20 to Moses and Elizabeth Pattie Boyd Milam in Frankfort, KY. He fought in the War of 1812 with the 8th regiment, 39th infantry company of the Kentucky militia, serving from 1812 August 17 to December 8. By 1818, Milam was in Texas, trading with the Comanche Indians on the Colorado River. The following year he joined José Félix Trespalacios and James Long in what became known as the “Long Expedition,” working to separate Mexico and Texas from Spain. Milam became a Mexican citizen under the new constitutional government on 1824 June 24, and was commissioned as a colonel in the Mexican army. Sometime after 1826, Milam was engaged to Annie McKinney. After returning from a trip to England in 1829, however, Milam found that McKinney had married another. He never married. On 1826 January 12, Milam signed a contract granting him permission to establish “Milam’s Colony.” The agreement required that he settle three hundred Catholic families on the land within six years. Milam failed to do so and the contract expired on 1832 January 25. The claims of the fifty-two families in Milam’s ColonyDLlike those of settlers across TexasDLwere therefore in question. In 1835, Milam convinced the governor of Coahuila and Texas, Agustin Viesca, to grant land titles to Texas settlers. Shortly thereafter, however, Antonio López de Santa Anna overthrew the government and captured Viesca and Milam on 1835 June 5. Milam escaped in October and joined a band of Texans under George Collinsworth who were fighting for independence from Mexico. They captured Goliad and then marched to San Antonio. On December 4, Milam heard that most of the men had given up the plan to attack San Antonio. He challenged the army by asking, “Who will go with old Ben Milam into San Antonio?” Three hundred men volunteered, and the attack began on 1835 December 5. Four days later, General Martin Perfecto de Cós and the Mexican army surrendered. Milam did not live to see the victory, however; he was killed by a sniper’s bullet on December 7. Milam is believed to be buried in Milam Park in San Antonio, Texas.
This series contains one letter written by Ben Milam. The series is in average condition.
The 1890s were a time of heightened patriotism, with many all-male fraternities celebrating anindividual’s ancestors who had fought in the American Revolution. Women were often excluded from this opportunity to celebrate one’s lineage and patriotism. On 1890 October 11, a group of women banded together in Washington, D.C. to counter such exclusion. They formed the National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution (NSDAR). The NSDAR had a three-fold mission of educating the public, historic preservation, and open displays of patriotism. Since its inception, the NSDAR has welcomed over 800,000 members into its ranks. The popularity of the NSDAR quickly spread across the nation. On 1901 December 5, Mrs. Josie Downs Marshall and fourteen other charter members from McLennan County founded the Henry Downs Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. Henry Downs was famous for having signed the Mecklenburg Declaration (1775). This declaration has stirred heated controversy in scholarly circles. Its signers from Charlotte, North Carolina, claimed that it was the first declaration of independence crafted in the original thirteencolonies. Officers in the Henry Downs Chapter were quite particular concerning those whom they granted membership. Applicants had to be women of eighteen years of age or older who could trace their lineage to a Revolutionary War ancestor. In addition to these genealogical requirements, potential inductees had to exhibit strong moral character as well. The group, in addition to focusing on the three-fold mission of the national organization, was very involved within the local community. For much of the twentieth century, the Henry Downs Chapter enjoyed relative success and growth. In 1976, as part of a bicentennial project conducted by the chapter, Sara Evans and Urena Johnson sought to create a new chapter of the DAR. One of the primary reasons for this course of action was the difficulty young mothers had in attending the meetings of the Henry Downs Chapter, which had always been held in the afternoon or evenings. Evans and Johnson were able to recruit the thirty-six members necessary in order to start a new chapter. On 1976 October 15, thesewomen met in an organizational meeting with the purpose of forging a new group: the Elizabeth Gordon Bradley Chapter. Elizabeth Gordon Bradley was the name chosen for this particular chapter for two reasons. First of all, the NSDAR encouraged new groups in the 1970s to name their chapters after influential females from the Revolutionary period.
It was also fitting because this was the ancestor of Sara Evans. Elizabeth Gordon, the heroine that this group celebrates, was born in Williamsburg Township, South Carolina, on 1730 May 4. In 1750, she married a landowner named Samuel Bradley. The couple openly supported the break from Great Britain. After Samuel’s death in 1778, Elizabeth continued to aid the cause of the Revolution by making clothes and preparing food for the soldiers as well as conducting a makeshift hospital at her home.
The following series is comprised of folders containing the official minutes of the Elizabeth Gordon Bradley Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. These papers reveal information such as the election of officers, special luncheons or events, guest speakers, and the financial contributions of the chapter’s members. The materials are in excellent condition.
This series, the largest of the collection, contains printed materials pertaining to the Elizabeth Gordon Bradley Chapter, including brochures, national and local directories, press books full of newspaper clippings, programs, and yearbooks. These materials are in good to excellent condition.
The following series contains two video tapes created by the Daughters of the American Revolution. The subject matter appears in the titles. The series is in good condition.
This series is comprised of five scrapbooks prepared by the Elizabeth Gordon Bradley Chapter. These scrapbooks are in good to excellent condition.
Dr. William Benjamin Worth Watkins first began courting Nancy Ellen “Nellie” Taylor in 1884. The two later married on 1884 August 7. From 1887-88, Watkins went to Nashville, Tennessee, for medical school, while Nancy stayed at their home in Eureka, Texas. They wrote to each other often during that year that they were apart. In 1908, Dr. Watson again traveled away from Nancy for “lung treatments” in Corpus Christi, Texas. The couple had two children who survived to adulthood, their son Mortimer J. and daughter Aubre. Mortimer went overseas during World War I and corresponded with his mother until his death in 1918, probably due to the war. Dr. Watkins died in 1915.
This series contains letters, clippings, and family genealogy materials. This series is in good condition.
The 1890s were a time of heightened patriotism, with many all-male fraternities celebrating anindividual’s ancestors who had fought in the American Revolution. Women were often excluded from this opportunity to celebrate one’s lineage and patriotism. On 1890 October 11, a group of women banded together in Washington, D.C. to counter such exclusion. They formed the National Society, Daughters of the American Revolution (NSDAR). The NSDAR had a three-fold mission of educating the public, historic preservation, and open displays of patriotism. Since its inception, the NSDAR has welcomed over 800,000 members into its ranks. The popularity of the NSDAR quickly spread across the nation. On 1901 December 5, Mrs. Josie Downs Marshall and fourteen other charter members from McLennan County founded the Henry Downs Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. Henry Downs was famous for having signed the Mecklenburg Declaration (1775). This declaration has stirred heated controversy in scholarly circles. Its signers from Charlotte, North Carolina, claimed that it was the first declaration of independence crafted in the original thirteen colonies. Downs was born near Spotsylvania County, Virginia, in 1728. Upon marrying his wife Frames Chew at the age of 22, Downs moved to North Carolina where he gained military experience fighting local Cherokee Indians during the final stages of the French and Indian War.
What garnered the most fame for Henry Downs was the act of signing the Mecklenburg Declaration (1775). Officers in the Henry Downs Chapter were quite particular concerning those whom they grantedmembership. Applicants had to be women of eighteen years of age or older who could trace their lineage to aRevolutionary War ancestor. In addition to these genealogical requirements, potential inductees had to exhibit strong moral character as well. The group, in addition to focusing on the three-fold mission of the national organization, was very involved within the local community. For much of the twentieth century, the Henry Downs Chapter enjoyed relative success and growth at achieving this goal. One of the first ways in which the chapter impacted local community life in Waco was the creation of historical markers. Since 1917, the Henry Downs Chapter has placed historical markers at Waco Springs, the home site of Governor Richard Coke, the home of Neill McLennan, Fort House, and First Street Cemetery. The chapter also celebrates American military and civic life. It awards annual medals to cadets and troops in the ROTC program at Baylor University. The D.A.R. has also overseen numerous middles school historical essay contests, as attested by the large number of student essays found within the collection. While celebrating their American heritage, the D.A.R. also reaches out to immigrant populations by encouraging them to take citizenship classes at nearby naturalization courts. In 1976, as part of a bicentennial project conducted by the chapter, Sara Evans and Urena Johnsonsought to create a new chapter of the D.A.R. One of the primary reasons for this course of action was the difficulty young mothers had in attending the meetings of the Henry Downs Chapter, whichto date had always been held in the afternoon or evenings. Evans and Johnson were able to recruit the thirty-six members necessary in order to start a new chapter. On 1976 October 15, these women met in an organizational meeting with the purpose of forging a new group: the Elizabeth Gordon Bradley Chapter. The Texas Collection houses the collections of both D.A.R. chapters.
The following series is comprised of folders containing correspondence exchanged among members and officers of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution, the Texas Society Daughters of the American Revolution, and the Henry Downs Chapter. The packets of correspondence include letters from the national branch explaining the duties of officers, upcoming events, by-laws, and other workings of the organization. This series is in good condition.
The following series is comprised of financial documents pertaining to the Henry Downs Chapter Finance Committee, budgets, receipts, treasurer’s reports, and pamphlets outlining the official duties of the chapter treasurer. The materials are in good condition.
The following series is comprised of the monthly minutes recorded by the Henry Downs Chapter. Also included are notes concerning the proceedings of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution and Texas Society Daughters of the American Revolution. These materials shed helpful insights into the inner workings of the D.A.R. on the national, state, and local levels. The materials are in average to good condition.
The following series contains the application forms submitted by those women who sought membership in the Henry Downs Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution. These materials are particularly important for the genealogist, because each member was required to prove one’s relationship to a Revolutionary War veteran. The materials are in average to good condition.
The following series contains literary productions produced by and for the Henry Downs Chapter of the American Revolution. Materials include handbooks, notes, clippings, by-laws, programs, reports, and other printed works. The bulk of the series is comprised of student essays composed for annual writing contests organized by the chapter. The series is in good condition.
The following series is comprised of artifacts such as ribbons, plaques, and pins collected by the Henry Downs Chapter. The materials are in good condition.
The following series contains photographic materials pertaining to past regents of the Henry Downs Chapter. The materials are in good condition.
This series is comprised of twenty-four scrapbooks organized by the Henry Downs Chapter. The scrapbooks were numbered according to the book’s date range. Based on the condition of the materials, some scrapbooks have been preserved while others were digitized. The latter can be found on Bearspace with the assistance of a staff member. Scrapbooks that were kept intact will be located in the oversized boxes of this series.
Matthew Ellenberger was born in San Antonio, Texas, and was educated at the Universities of Tennessee and Oregon. As of 1985 he was living in Annapolis, Maryland. Ellenberger wrote articles on obscure figures in American history, especially those connected with early movements for independence and settlement. The materials in this collection concern Albert Clinton Horton, Thomas Walker, and Jack Jouett. Albert Clinton Horton (1798-1865) served as a representative in the Alabama State Legislature before moving to Texas in 1835. In the Texas Revolution, he became a colonel, and was responsible for gathering many volunteers. In 1836 he attempted to rescue Colonel James Fannin at Goliad, but was repelled by the Mexicans and forced to retreat. This action made Horton a controversial figure in his time, but even so, he continued to advance in his career, eventually becoming one of the wealthiest men in Texas. He was elected the first lieutenant governor of Texas, and was a charter member of Baylor University’s Board of Trustees. Dr. Thomas Walker (1714-1794) was a wealthy Virginian and a prominent physician in the years before the American Revolution. He was a member of the House of Burgesses in multiple counties, and performed various other civil duties. He was also appointed the guardian of the young Thomas Jefferson. His most notable accomplishment, though, was his role in exploring Kentucky and aiding in opening its frontiers for settlement. Jack Jouett (1754-1822), from Virginia, was a Captain in the American Revolution. In 1781 he discovered a plot by the British general Lord Cornwallis to send Lieutenant Colonel Banastre Tarleton to capture several key leaders in the Revolution, including Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, Benjamin Harrison, and Richard Henry Lee, who were then in an assembly in Charlottesville, Virginia. Jouett rode forty miles through the woods, in the dark, to warn his defenseless compatriotsDLan act that likely saved the Revolution. In his later years, he went to Kentucky and helped it gain its independence and to prepare the way for settlers.
This series consists of Matthew Ellenberger’s notes taken during his research of Albert Clinton Horton, correspondence between Ellenberger and the sources of his information, and literary productions such as articles and encyclopedic entries about Horton. These materials are in good condition.
This series consists of literary publications, including a thesis, research paper, Antiquarian Society report, encyclopedic entries, journal, and articles of Thomas Walker. These materials are in good condition.
This series consists of a couple of articles about Jack Jouett used for Ellenberger’s research. This series is in good condition.
Benajah Harvey Carroll was born 1843 December 27. He attended Baylor University at Independence until 1861, the beginning of the American Civil War, when he left school to enlist in the Texas Rangers. He later joined the 17th Texas Infantry of the Confederate Army where he served until he was wounded in 1864. A self-identifying skeptic, in 1865 Carroll was converted to Christianity after attending a Methodist Camp meeting. He was ordained as a Baptist minister the next year. Carroll married his first wife, Ellen Virginia Bell, in 1866. The two had nine children together.
After ashort time preaching in small churches throughout central Texas, Carroll was called to become pastor of the First Baptist Church in Waco in 1870. He served there for almost thirty years, until he resigned to become secretary of the Texas Baptist Education Commission in 1899. During his time as pastor, he was instrumental in unifying Texas Baptists under the Baptist General Convention of Texas. Much of the correspondence contained in these papers is related to Carroll’s role as a leader among Texas Baptists. Also during his tenure at First Baptist Church in Waco, Carroll served for fifteen years on the board of trustees for Baylor University. Often a magnet for controversy, as chairman of the board Carroll was at the center of the transition of Rufus Burleson from acting President of Baylor to President Emeritus in 1897. These papers contain many letters to and from Carroll debating the Burleson controversy. During his time in Waco, Carroll also served as a professor, teaching Bible and theology classes. He was well respected by his students and had a reputation as an accomplished lecturer. Many of his lectures were transcribed and kept, allowing a rich insight into his classroom. Numerous notebooks containing class notes and exams written by Carroll’s students while attending his class are included in these papers. After the death of his first wife, Carroll married Hallie Harrison in 1899. The marriage produced one child.
Between 1889 and 1906, Carroll led a fundraising campaign to reduce Baylor’s debt. These papers contain correspondence relating to these fundraising campaigns. In 1905, Carroll founded Baylor Theological Seminary, which later moved to Fort Worth and became Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. He served as its president until his death.
Series includes Benajah Harvey Carroll’s correspondence about Baylor, Southwestern Theological Seminary, and First Baptist Church of Waco. It also includes three letters regarding the Clements Family. Two Clements’ daughters were pupils of Carroll. This series is in average to excellent condition.
This series includes expense reports and financial ledgers and it is in good condition.
This series is the largest of the Benajah Harvey Carroll Papers. Included are numerous sermons and lectures given by Carroll during his appointments at First Baptist Church of Waco, Baylor University, and Southwestern Theological Seminary. Also included is a collection of class notes taken by three different students in Carroll’s classes. This series is in average to good condition.
The connection between Lydia Ann English Guyler and Sam Houston is unknown, although we know that Mrs. Guyler named one of her sons after General Sam Houston in memory of the victory that he had in San Jacinto. Of the Guyler family, we also know that Mrs. Guyler aided the Civil War soldiers at home and donated supplies to the cause, while Mr. William Guyler served the Confederate forces as a member of the General John Sayles Company in the 23rd Brigade. Mr. Guyler established a post office on 1873 October 13 and served as Post Master of Bovine Bend (now Wallis, Texas). Sam Houston was a powerful political figure of Texas history. Houston was born 1793 March 2. In 1809, shortly after his family moved to Tennessee, Houston ran away from home. He lived among the Cherokees for several years, and then joined Andrew Jackson’s army on 1813 March 24. Houston studied law and enjoyed rapid success as a public official; he was elected governor of Tennessee at the young age of 34. He married Eliza Allen in 1829 but they separated eleven weeks later. Houston retreated back among the Cherokee Nation and married under Cherokee law a Native American woman of mixed blood, Diana. Houston again left the Cherokee tribe and came to Texas on 1832 December 2. In 1836 Houston served as a delegate to the convention that adopted the Texas Declaration of Independence. He went on to lead the Texas revolutionaries to a victory over Santa Anna in the Battle of San Jacinto, which helped him be elected as the first and third President of the Republic of Texas. Having divorced Allen in 1837, he married Margaret Moffette Lea, a religious Baptist woman, in 1840. Together they had eight children. In 1854 Houston was baptized by Baylor University President, Reverend Rufus C.
Burleson, at Little Rocky Creek near Independence, Texas. After Texas joined the Union, Houston served as a U.S. Senator and then as the seventh governor of the state of Texas. During his term as governor, Houston refused to swear loyalty to the Confederacy when Texas seceded from the Union in 1861, and he was removed from his position as governor. Houston died on 1863 July 26.
This series consists of one letter from Sam Houston to Lydia Guyler with his advice on the naming of her daughter.
The Legion Valley Massacre was one of many violent events in the history of Texan-Indian relations. The scrapbook in this collection describes the homestead of one family in Llano County, Texas, and the violent confrontation between Comanche Indians and some Euro-Americans living in the area. With the American Civil War ending in 1865, Euro-Americans were moving West again, onto lands already controlled by American Indian tribes. Llano County, Texas, west of Austin, had just become a county in 1856, and people were still moving there in search of land for farms and ranches.
In south Llano County, several related families settled at the confluence of the Sandy and Legion Creeks. These families included the Friends and two related Johnson families, who were all involved in the 1868 massacre. On 1868 February 5, the three men from these three families left to get supplies from the nearby town of Fredricksburg. That left their three wives, Matilda Jones Friend, Elizabeth "Betsy" Townsend Johnson Bradford, and Samantha Johnson, as well as their infant children Nancy Elizabeth Johnson and Fielty Johnson. Lee Temple Friend, eight years old, son of Matilda Jones Friend and the only male of the group, was present as well. Also staying with the group at this time were 18-year-old Amanda Townsend, cousin of the Johnsons, and 11-year-old Malinda Caudel, also a relative of the families. At the end of the day, with the children playing in the yard, a group of Indians rode in and began to steal horses at some distance from the house. Hearing the screams of the women and children, the Indians charged the house, taking everyone prisoner except for Matilda Jones Friend, whom they shot three times, scalped twice, and left for dead. Incredibly, Matilda walked a mile and half to the nearest help with two or three arrows still in her. She recovered and lived near Marble Falls, Texas, until 1909. Only Malinda Caudle and Lee Temple Friend of the captured women and children survived. The children were brutally killed and the women were sexually assaulted and killed. Their bodies were found one by one by a group of men who set out to rescue them, but were too late. Malinda and Lee were reunited with what remained of their families several years after their capture, though Lee died shortly after coming into Anglo-American society.
This small series contains a scrapbook and several loose pages that were at the back of the scrapbook. The scrapbook contains information on the Bolt Family Homestead, the Johnson Family, and the Legion Valley Indian Massacre.
Baylor University students have been active in Texas military forces going back to the American Civil War in 1861-1865. The Baylor Cadets were an on-campus military organization that carried on this tradition from 1888 until 1904, preparing Baylor students for possible duty with the armed forces. The Baylor Cadets were formed in 1888 as a military company under the command of Albert Boggess, a mathematics professor at the time. Boggess, a graduate of Virginia Military Institute and veteran of the Civil War Battle of New Market in 1864, moved to Texas in 1866. He succeeded in getting the student-soldiers navy-blue uniforms and an adequate amount of the gear necessary for an infantry company. It seems there were never enough firearms and ammunition to outfit the cadets; several manuscripts in this collection mention obtaining more of both. At some point the Baylor Cadets became a department of Baylor University. Professor Albert Boggess, commander of the cadets, died in 1891. From 1891 until 1893, the cadets ran their own military training program, probably under the supervision of faculty members. The collection contains a minute book detailing the cadets' administration of their own department from 1888 until 1893. In1893 December, Lieutenant Beaumont Bonaparte Buck arrived to command the cadets at the request of the Baylor Board of Trustees. Lieutenant Buck completely reorganized the department, issued new Springfield rifles to the cadets, and added two cannons and signaling equipment. He also designed a new blue uniform for the cadets modeled on the Texas Volunteer Guard. The Baylor Cadets were now able to field two infantry companies, one artillery battery, and one signal unit. In 1894,Baylor University began requiring all male Baylor University students to serve in the cadet corps for three years. The Military Department, under Lieutenant Buck, was tasked with developing "manliness, courtesy, accuracy, promptness, and devotion to duty," as well as physical fitness, in the young men of the Baylor Cadets. To accomplish this, the department conducted regular drills and offered lectures on a variety of military topics. Lieutenant Buck also hosted prize contests for the best drilled company, the best drilled squad, the best drilled cadet, and a rifle-shooting contest. The collection contains a drill and regulation book from 1894, when Lieutenant Buck commanded the Baylor Cadets. Lieutenant Buck served as commandant of cadets for only two years, but his reforms and establishment of professional standards for the department lasted for years. Beaumont Buck later became a major general in the United States army and received many awards in World War I. He resigned in 1895 because of health reasons, and was replaced by Lieutenant Jonas A. Emery. Lieutenant Emery made several changes to the Baylor Cadets. Because of all the new cadets, now that Baylor required military service from all male students, the number of infantry companies was increased from two to ten. The uniform was also changed from blue to cadet grey, new flags were ordered for the signal corps, a military band was formed which eventually became the Golden Wave Marching Band, and the Baylor Cadets began to occasionally hold "sham battles" on campus. In 1898 Lieutenant Emery was recalled to active service for the Spanish-American War, and the cadets ran their own department for the next three years. Apparently the department was run well in the absence of a formal commander. New commander Major Edward G.
Mathey took command in 1901 as the last commander of the Baylor Cadets. Major Mathey at the time of his appointment to command the Baylor cadets was a retired United States military officer. He had served in many campaigns against the American Indians, including the Little Bighorn Campaign in 1876 and the Nez Perce Campaign of 1877. When Major Mathey arrived at Baylor, he organized the 159 men into three infantry companies and an artillery battery. Regular drill was continued in the area around Burleson Hall until 1902, when they began to drill in the athletic field on campus. Apparently requiring male students to serve in the Baylor Cadets had been discontinued at some point, but Major Mathey succeeded in requiring male students to serve for one year in the Baylor Cadets. In 1902, the band and the cadets parted ways, with the band becoming a stand-alone program at the university. The coming of football as an alternative physical exercise to military drill as a cadet irritated Major Mathey enough to claim "football has no more relation to physical culture than a bull fight to agriculture." Major Mathey resigned in 1903, probably to retire permanently. In 1904, the Baylor trustees decided to end the Baylor Cadets program. A regular army officer could not be supplied to command the cadets, and students seemed to be losing interest in the program. Another reason was supplied by the Baylor Lariat publication, that many thought the most athletic men should be helping Baylor in athletics, not military exercises. Whatever reasons were involved for ending the program, the Baylor Cadets organization had trained a generation of young men in the art of war, and this training was put to use by many Baylor men who fought in the Spanish-American War and World War I.
This series contains several correspondence documents from the Baylor Cadets. One manuscript refers to their part in an 1895 carnival, and another is an invitation from the cadets to the first concert and reception by the Baylor Military Band, which eventually became the Golden Wave Marching Band. Also of note is the petition sent to the Baylor faculty asking for the Baylor Cadets to become an official university organization.
This series contains loose minutes and a minute book from the Baylor Cadets organization. These minutes provide information about the cadets from when they were first organized to the end of Lieutenant Emery's time as commandant of the cadets at Baylor University.
This series contains several literary documents on the Baylor Cadets. Included are a roll book of men who served as Baylor Cadets, an unpublished and untitled document on the history of the Baylor Cadets, and the handbook Tactics in Baylor University, Waco, Texas. Georgia Jenkins Burleson was born in Merriweather, Georgia, to Judge Pleasant C. and Harriet Daniel Jenkins, in 1833 September. She moved to Washington-on-the-Brazos, Texas, in 1836. In 1852 she graduated from Judson Female Institute in Marion, Alabama. A year later Georgia married Rufus Columbus Burleson on 1853 January 3 in Independence, Texas. The family moved to Waco, Texas, in 1861, when Rufus Burleson became president of Waco University. Georgia Burleson was active in the community, serving as a charter member of Columbus Avenue Baptist Church and also as a matron at Baylor University. She was the mother of five children. Only two of her children survived adolescence, Hallie Byrd Burleson and Richard Adair Burleson. She died on 1924 June 11. The second oldest building at Baylor University, built in 1887, was named Georgia Burleson Hall in her honor.
The Literary Productions series contains transcripts, a music book that belonged to Georgia Jenkins Burleson, and The Evergreen. This series is in poor to average condition.
The Scrapbook series contains one scrapbook that belonged to Georgia Jenkins Burleson. The scrapbook has two entries and one letter written from Mollie Burrells to Burleson. The album also contains four pencil sketches including one of Baylor University at Independence.
Hannibal “Joe” Lucas Jaworski was born on 1902 April 19 in Germany to Rev. Joseph and Marie Mira Jaworski. The family soon moved to Waco, Texas where his brother, Leon Jaworski, the famed Watergate lawyer, was born. Hannibal received his B.A. from Baylor University in 1921, and then went on to receive his M.D. from the Baylor Medical School in 1926. His medical residency and internship were both completed at Hillcrest Hospital in Waco. After establishing himself as a surgeon at Hillcrest, Hannibal enlisted in the U.S. Army at the start of World War II. He was assigned to the new McClonskey General Hospital in Temple, Texas, where he eventually became Director of the Surgical Staff and achieved the rank of Colonel. During the war McClonskey was one of the Army’s largest hospitals and it was known for its outstanding orthopedic surgery, amputations, and neurosurgery.
McClonskey was also a popular place for Hollywood stars to visit wounded troops. Many of the photographs, literary productions, and correspondence included in these papers were produced at McClonskey. Near the end of the war, Jaworski was transferred to the Philippines to begin preparing for an invasion of Japan. The invasion was called off after the atomic bombs were dropped. Jaworski took many photos while in the Philippines and included them in the photo album that is part of this collection. After the war Jaworski returned to Waco and Hillcrest where he eventually became Chief of Staff. He met his future wife, Madge McReynolds when he performed successful surgery on her. The two were soon married and, despite Madge’s continual ill health, remained married for 38 years. They had no children. In 1950 Jaworski received the Carnegie Award for Heroism after rescuing a man who was drowning in the lake behind his house. At the time of the Waco Tornado, Madge and Hannibal were at his practice in downtown Waco. They were some of the first on the scene and rushed to the hospital to alert the staff of the disaster. “Dr. Joe,” as his patients called him, stayed in the hospital for nearly 24 hours treating patients. Before rushing to the hospital, Jaworski was able to take photographs of the damage that are included in these papers. After her long illness, Madge died on 1985 December 5. By then Hannibal Jaworski was a well-known figure in the Waco community, having received from Baylor the Outstanding Service Award and the Distinguished Alumnus Award. He died on 1999 November 13. Jaworski was well respected in the community and left a legacy of care for his community and his patients. His papers will be valuable to anyone interested in studying medical care during World War II or the aftermath of the Waco Tornado.
This series contains correspondence relating to Hannibal Jaworski’s time as an Army surgeon during World War II. It contains letters, telegrams, and memoranda. This series is in good condition.
This series includes literary productions pertaining to Hannibal Jaworski’s time as a surgeon at McClonskey Hospital during World War II, his work with the Salvation Army during and after the war, and his experience seeing the Waco Tornado. Included are issues of the Salvation Army’s “The War Cry” magazine and an unpublished copy of the McClonskey General Hospital Rules and Regulations from 1942. This series is in average to good condition.
This series contains books from Hannibal Jaworski’s library. It includes a signed copy of Memoirs of English Essays by Walter C. Bronson. This series is in good condition.
This series, the largest in the Hannibal “Joe” Lucas Jaworski Papers contains pictures pertaining to Jaworski’s service in World War II as well as the Waco Tornado of 1953. Included in the war photos are many pictures of the McClonskey General Hospital surgical ward, surgeries in progress, soldiers on a transport train, and wounded soldiers with various movie stars of the 1940s (see list of stars below). Most of these photos were removed from a large undated photo album exclusively containing war photos. The tornado photos are unique in that they were taken in the immediate aftermath of the storm and the slides are rare color images of the destruction. Stars Included in Photo Album-Name: Photo Album Page NumberBetty Alexander: 120Gene Autrey: 46-49Leslie Brooks 118Ginny Simms: 54Trudy Marshall: 119Lynn Merrick: 120Harold Russell: 98-100, 124Frank Sully: 118This series is in good condition.
The Baylor family arrived in America around 1690, when John Baylor II migrated from England. He was later joined by his father, John I, and in 1721 the family received a large land grant in Virginia. John II and his son, John III, were both members of the Virginia House of Burgesses. Two of John III’s sons served as officers in the American Revolution: George (1752-1784) was an aide-de-camp for George Washington and Walker (1762-1822) served as captain of the Third Continental Dragoons (also known as Baylor’s Dragoons). Walker began the family’s westward migration by moving to Kentucky in 1783; his sons and grandsons were the ancestors of the Texas Baylors. Robert Emmett Bledsoe Baylor (1793-1873), son of Walker and Jane Bledsoe, moved first to Alabama and then to Texas. He fought in the War of 1812 and became a legislator, lawyer, and pioneering Baptist leader.
Baylor University is named for him. Many of his male relatives followed a similar pattern of migration and political and military involvement. John Walker VIII (1786-1835), Robert’s brother, had a number of sons who went west and participated in the Texas Revolution, the Civil War, and various wars against the American Indians. One son, George Wythe (1832-1916) graduated from Baylor University and fought Comanche Indians in 1859-1860. During the Civil War, George Wythe served as aide-de-camp to fellow Texan Albert Sidney Johnston, and later served as the colonel of the Second Arizona Cavalry. After the war, he joined the Texas Rangers, rising to the rank of major. In 1880, George Wythe served in the Texas House of Representatives. One of his grandsons, James Harper Baylor Lee-Gillette (1884-1941), was the first American matador. Another of John Walker VIII’s sons, Henry Weidner (1818-1854), went west in 1839. He served in the Texas Revolution, and was eventually elected captain of a company. Baylor County, Texas, is named in his honor. The most prominent of John Walker VIII’s sons was John Robert (1822-1894). In the early 1840s, John Robert fought in the Texas Revolution. Afterwards, he took it upon himself to destroy the Comanche Indians. He traveled around Texas stirring up anti-Indian sentiment, edited an anti-Indian newspaper called White Man, and even raised a vigilante force of 1,000 men. He served in the Texas legislature from 1852-1854.
During the Civil War, John Robert was commissioned as Confederate lieutenant colonelDLand later became a colonelDLin command of the Second Texas Mounted Rifles. He organized the Confederate Territory of Arizona and served as its military governor. After John Robert planned the massacre of a group of Apaches in 1862, Confederate President Jefferson Davis stripped him of command. By that time, higher-ranking Henry Hopkins Sibley was leading the 1862 Confederate Invasion of New Mexico, which meant John Robert would not have been in command of the Arizona territory anyway. John Robert fought as a private in the 1863 Battle of Galveston and subsequently served in the Second Confederate Congress. He was married to Emily Jane Hanna (1825-1917). One of John Robert’s sons, Henry Weidner IV (1848-1932), was a private under his uncle George Wythe during the Civil War. Later he served as the sheriff of Uvalde County for twenty-two years and as the tax assessor for twelve. Henry Weidner IV was married to Addie DeLeon Hamer (1851-1894), after whose death he married Florence Black. His grandson, John Roy XVII (1899-1918), served as a sergeant in the United States Army during World War I until his death in France in October 1918. John Roy XVII’s sister, Addie (1897-1984), was a school teacher in Marquez, Texas. She was active in organizing the 1930 Baylor family reunion (one among a few reunions in the 1930s and 1940s). This collection owes much to Addie's efforts to collect and preserve her family history. Addie married Royle Pruitt Carrington, among whose nineteenth-century ancestors was an active Texas lawyer. As a group, the Baylor family has been interested in its history; they established a family organization and for a while published a magazine dedicated to the family history. These activities, along with many Baylors and their long history, are represented in the Baylor-Carrington Family Papers.
This series contains personal and professional correspondence from several generations of Baylors and Carringtons. While most of the series is in good condition, Addie DeLeon Hamer Baylor's letters are in poor condition. Much of Emily "Emy" Jane Hanna Baylor's correspondence is from her husband, John Robert Baylor. Of particular note is a copy of a letter from Robert E. Lee to John Robert Baylor.
This series consists of a variety of legal documents from the Baylor and Carrington families. The majority of the series, however, is a dense run of contracts from the Carrington family--covering from the 1830s to the 1910s. Of particular note is John L. Wall's contract signed by the president of the Republic of Texas, Mirabeau B. Lamar, as well as John Robert Baylor's pass to move about the Confederate States of America signed by Secretary of State Judah P. Benjamin.
This series consists of financial documents from the Carrington family, especially tax records from the late nineteenth century to the early twentieth century.
This series consists of printed materials, collected materials, subject files, genealogical materials, biographical materials, clippings, manuscripts, and other types of literary productions. Included are materials created by Baylor family members (like the many newspaper articles by George Wythe Baylor) as well as information about members of the family (like the many biographical and genealogical materials). While the series is generally in good condition, Addie DeLeon Hamer Baylor's materials are in poor condition.
This series consists of books authored or collected by members of the Baylor and/or Carrington families, from the eighteenth to the twentieth centuries. There are a couple family Bibles containing birth, death, and marriage dates. Of particular note is a second edition of Thomas Jefferson's History of Texas, which contains Baylor's marginalia regarding his own participation in the events described.
This series consists of photographs, negatives, and painting prints of members of the Baylor, Carrington, and Allen families. In addition to portraits, there are photographs of Baylor family reunions and the installing of the statue of R.E.B. Baylor at Baylor University.
This series consists of a variety of family heirloom artifacts, including spoons, fabric items, and the printing plate for a map of Baylor University campus.
This series consists of an album of poetry and pictures, an autograph book, and several scrapbooks. There are scrapbooks of the Civil War, WWI, and a Baylor family reunion. The scrapbooks include correspondence, newspaper clippings, and photographs.
Eleanor McClerran was born on 1918 July 22 in Milam County, Texas to Casca Jackson and Irene Addison McLerren. She graduated from Baylor University in 1938 with a double major in Spanish and Journalism. Between graduating from Baylor in 1938 and enlisting in 1944, Eleanor was married and divorced. Because of this, some of the official forms contained in the scrapbook are made out to “Eleanor M. Redmond.” In 1944, Eleanor McLerran enlisted in the WAC as a private. The WAC was founded in place of the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps (WAAC) in October of 1943. During the course of the war, over 150,000 women served in the WAC. Except for nurses, members of the WAC were the first women to serve within the ranks of the United States Army. Eleanor was stationed at Fort Oglethorpe in Georgia, the Santa Maria Army Air Base, and the Riverside Army Marching Base. She wrote articles for various Army publications and subsequently kept clippings of many articles pertaining to the WAC. After the war, Eleanor worked at the Disney Studios in Burbank, California and there she met her future husband, Charles DeLancey. The DeLanceys lived in Houston and were generous supporters of Baylor University. Their most significant gift was the Charles J. and Eleanor McLerran DeLancey Endowed Chair at Truett Seminary. Eleanor died on 2004 November 3 after 55 years of marriage. Charles DeLancey died in 2011 April 4.
The Scrapbooks Series is the only series in the Eleanor McLerran DeLancey Collection. It consists of a scrapbook filled with items from Eleanor's time in the Women's Army Corps (WAC) during World War II. The scrapbook includes photographs, maps, pamphlets, correspondence, and other materials.
This series is in good condition.
Gordon Kidd Teal was born in Dallas, Texas, on 1907 January 10, to Olin Allison and Azelia Clyde Kidd Teal. Gordon excelled in academics from an early age and graduated as valedictorian of Bryan Street High School in 1924. For the next few years, Teal attended Baylor University where he continued to do well in academics and sports. Teal served as the President of the Scholarship Society and Latin Club, the Vice President of the Senior Class, a member of the Baylor Chamber of Commerce, and a member of the track team. He graduated from Baylor University in 1927 with a Bachelor of Arts in Mathematics and Chemistry. Teal continued his education at Brown University where he earned his Master’s degree (1928) and his Ph.D. in Chemistry (1931). Under the tutelage of Dr. Charles Kraus, Teal examined the chemical and electric properties of germanium, which to that point had been deemed relatively useless by most scientists. On 1931 March 7, Teal married Lyda Louise Smith with whom he had three sons: Robert Carroll, Donald Fraser, and Stephen O’Banion Teal. As early as 1930, Teal had begun his productive scientific career at Bell Telephone Laboratories. For the next twenty-two years, Teal made one scientific discovery after another. He perfected the growth of high purity single crystal germanium and silicon, co-developed the junction transistor, created the grown junction single crystal technique, and secured approximately forty-five patents. In 1952, Teal moved back to Texas when a position opened at Texas Instruments. In 1953, Gordon Teal was hired as an Assistant Vice President at Texas Instruments. Arguably his greatest invention, the first commercial silicon transistor (1954), launched Texas Instruments into a period of unprecedented success. The military, astronomical, and commercial implications for such a transistor were limitless and resulted in many of the innovative technologies our society enjoys today. Teal worked at Texas Instruments until 1965 when he was appointed the first Director of the Institute for Materials Research at the National Bureau of Standards. He served a two-year term, and then returned to Texas Instruments where he remained until retirement in 1972. Retirement, however, did not mean idleness for Gordon Teal. Along with his numerous awards and honorary degrees, Teal continued to serve as a consultant for both Texas Instruments and the Department of Defense. Throughout his life, Teal was actively involved in many scientific organizations including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Chemical Society, American Institute of Chemists, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Physical Society, Council of Scientific and Engineering Societies of Dallas-Fort Worth, Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Texas Academy of Science. Dr. Gordon Teal passed away on 2003 January 7.
This series contains notebooks, notes, essays, and reports from Gordon Teal's school work at Baylor University, Brown University, as well as post-doctoral work. The materials are in average to good condition.
This small series contains personal materials pertaining to Gordon Teal, particularly biographical materials, outlines of his professional activities, and a Who's Who article. A 53-page biographical summary of Teal's life is of particular importance for anyone hoping to write a biography of Teal. The materials are in average to good condition.
This series, the largest of the collection, contains a vast array of materials pertaining to Gordon Teal's professional life. Literary productions and correspondence from Teal's positions at Bell Telephone Laboratories, Texas Instruments, and the National Bureau of Standards are prevalent, but the series also contains correspondence and minutes from his involvement in scientific organizations including the Texas Academy of Science, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the American Institute of Chemists. A number of Teal's notebooks are also included. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains correspondence, certificates, diplomas, and plaques concerning awards that Dr. Gordon Teal and his wife Lyda accumulated over the years from organizations like Baylor University and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. The materials are in excellent condition and have been wrapped in tissue paper for preservation purposes.
Huston-Tillotson University, a small liberal arts and sciences school in Austin, Texas, has offered a quality education to scholars for many years. The school is operated today jointly by the United Church of Christ and the United Methodist Church. Historically, most of the students have been African-American, and the coeducational university has drawn a lot of support from African-American communities in Austin. Huston-Tillotson University was originally two separate colleges, Samuel Huston College and Tillotson College, which merged in 1952 to form the current school. Both schools were religiously affiliated, Samuel Huston College with the Methodist Episcopal Church, and Tillotson College with the American Missionary Society of Congregational Churches. The materials in this collection are linked to Tillotson College in the 1930s, before the merger with Samuel Huston College to form Huston-Tillotson University in 1952. During the 1930s, Mary Elizabeth Branch was president of Tillotson College, an all-girls junior college in Austin, Texas. Branch had received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Chicago, and had served as dean of women at what was in 1928 the largest high school in the country for black girls. She came to Tillotson in 1930. Tillotson College, like many schools, struggled to operate as usual during the Great Depression. Before Mary Branch arrived, Tillotson College was dealing with poor administration and declining student population. After her arrival, major changes began at Tillotson. She raised enough money to double the number of faculty, offer more scholarships, construct new dormitories and gymnasiums, and build better relations with the community and other schools in the area. Most of this was done during the Great Depression, when many schools were trying just to stay open. Much of the collection reflects Branch's struggles to collect tuition from students and their parents, and Tillotson College's purchases during the early 1930s. Mary Branch's improvements were recognized on a national level when Tillotson College achieved an "A" rating from the Southern Association of Colleges in 1943, seven years after it was admitted to membership in the American Association of Colleges. Mary Branch passed away in 1944 July 9 at the height of her career. Her work to improve Tillotson College paid off when Tillotson merged with Samuel Huston College in 1952 to form the present-day Huston-Tillotson University. Huston-Tillotson continues the legacy of quality education in Austin today, originally established by Tillotson College and Samuel Huston College in the 1800s.
This series contains various letters written to and from Tillotson College. Most had something to do with the school's finances; many are from parents asking about their student, or from the college to the parents asking for the student's bill to be paid. Other letters are to various companies that the college bought supplies from, including bookcases from Gaylord, books from Barnes and Noble, and food from various area merchants. One letter orders basketball jerseys and basketballs for the college girls' team. This series is in good condition.
This series contains various bills, receipts, and student bills generated by Tillotson College. This series is in average condition.
Henry Trantham was born on 1882 March 10 in Camden, South Carolina. He received a Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts Degree from Wake Forrest College in 1900 and 1901, and attended the University of Oxford through the Rhodes Scholarship from 1905 to 1908. Trantham taught at the Oak Ridge Institute in Oak Ridge, North Carolina, from 1902 to 1905, and served as the principal at the Newnan High School in Newnan, Georgia, from 1908 to 1910. He was a professor of Greek and Roman History, Twentieth Century History, and Greek language at Baylor University from 1910 to 1958, serving as the Greek Department head from 1910 to 1950, and Classics Department chairman from 1950 to 1958. Trantham retired in 1958 and died on 1962 February 19. Henry Trantham served on multiple committees and boards. He was the Baylor University faculty representative to the Southwest Athletic Conference from 1916 to 1923, and from 1925 to 1941. Trantham was the president of the Southwest Athletic Conference from 1918 to 1919, and from 1938 to 1941, and in that position he assisted in the establishment of the Cotton Bowl Association. He was the secretary for the Rhodes Scholarship Selection committee from 1919 to 1939. Trantham was a member of the Board of Commissioners, City of Waco, Texas, from 1931 to 1933. He was a member of the Philosophical Society of Texas, the Texas Classical Association, the Philosopher’s Club of Waco, Texas, and Phi Beta Kappa. At Baylor University, Trantham was the editor of “The Diamond Jubilee, 1845-1920”.
Series includes correspondence to and from Henry Trantham related to Baylor University, the Rhodes Scholarship and the Southwest Athletic Conference. The material is in fair condition: the sheets are yellowed, and many items are facsimile and carbon copies on thin and worn paper.
Series contains 20 grade books and typewritten grade sheets for Greek language and various History classes at Baylor University. The material is in good condition: the books are starting to yellow.
Series includes lesson plans, midterm and final exams, and class notes related to Greek language, History, Physics and Chemistry classes at Baylor University, along with administrative papers and other materials related to Baylor University. The material is in fair condition: the sheets are yellowed, and many items are facsimile and carbon copies on thin and worn paper.
Series contains twelve Rhodes Scholarship-related newsletters, two pamphlets related to the Rhodes Scholarship, an Oxford University Address Book, one oversized photograph and three bound essays. The material is in good condition: some of the items are yellowed and show wear on the edges.
Series contains athletic reports, rosters, a Cotton Bowl newspaper clipping scrapbook and other athletic materials. The material is in good condition: some of the items are yellowed.
Series contains musical recital programs, handwritten notes and smoking schedules, receipts and other personal materials. The material is in good condition: some of the items are yellowed.
Olive McGehee Denson was born on 1893 September 19 in Cameron, Texas. She was married at the age of 28 to Joe Denson. The couple had one child, Marjorie Denson, born in 1930. The family resided in Milam County, Texas. She died in 1966 April. There is a Baylor scholarship in the Department of Education called the Olive M. Denson Education Scholarship.
This series includes a notebook of Olive McGehee Denson that contains the church history of Milam County, various publications and bulletins, and a booklet on Texas natural resources. A ledger from Olive Denson is also included in this series. This series is in average condition.
This series includes photographs from Independence, TX in Box 1, Folder 20, unidentified photographs and a postcard. The Independence photographs include photographs of the Independence Baptist Church and Baylor ruins. Two of the photographs are from Washington on the Brazos State Park outside of Brenham. This series is in poor to good condition.
This series includes two scrapbooks. They cover the topics of church history and Texas history. This series is in poor to average condition.
Charles Wellborn, born in Alto, Texas, to Charles F. and Ethel Swanzy Wellborn, grew up in East Texas and attended Gladewater High School. After graduating from high school, he attended Kilgore Junior College, where he won the national junior college debate championship twice. Wellborn received a full scholarship to come to Baylor University in 1942, but he joined the United States army shortly before graduation from Baylor. Through a series of clerical errors, Wellborn ended up in the 10th U.S. Army Division, the only unit of the army that was a ski unit, for the rest of World War II. After the war ended, Wellborn came back to Baylor to finish his degree. Because of his prior school experience, he taught several courses in political science as he finished his degree. At that time, the Christian revival movement was sweeping Baylor, and Wellborn became part of it. He dedicated his life to Jesus Christ, and quickly became part of a team of college men leading revivals in major Texas colleges and cities. After finishing his political science degree, Wellborn began a master's degree in religion at Southwestern Theological Seminary and continued preaching at revivals across the South. While still a seminary student, Wellborn recorded messages for "The Baptist Hour," and continued proclaiming the Gospel in revival meetings across the United States. After graduating and working for a time in Atlanta, Georgia, he was asked to become the pastor of Seventh and James Baptist Church back in Waco, which he accepted. Through his ten productive years as pastor of Seventh and James, Wellborn grew the church's membership exponentially and opened church membership to people of all races in 1958. Though he received threatening telephone calls and a cross was burned in his front yard in protest of opening church membership to everybody, Wellborn never wavered in his belief that the Gospel was for all people. In 1961, Wellborn left Seventh and James and began studying for a doctorate at Duke University. He returned to Baylor University to teach religion for a time, but taught primarily at Florida State University for the rest of his career. He retired in 1990, and passed away in 2009. Florida State still honors him by hosting the Charles T. Wellborn Endowed Lecture Series every other year.
This series contains sermons written by Charles Wellborn during his time as pastor of Seventh and James Baptist Church in Waco, Texas, and Faith Baptist Church in Kentucky. While some complete sermons are written out, most are in outline form, with a list of the stories he wanted to tell to illustrate the point he was trying to make in the sermon. This series is in average condition.
This series contains a number of articles that Wellborn wrote for publication, probably when he was a professor at Florida State University. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains tracts written by Charles Wellborn for the Baptist Hour, a regular radio program featuring sermons by prominent Baptist preachers. This series is in good condition.
This series contains several plays written by Charles Wellborn, eulogies and obituaries written about Wellborn, and other materials. The series is in excellent condition.
Bertie Routh Barron was born in Plano, Texas, in 1880 to James M. and Virginia "Jennie" Barron. Her family was active at First Baptist Church Plano, so it is not surprising that she would attend a Baptist college. After graduating from Baylor Female College in 1900, Bertie went on to marry Alanzo Webb and the couple had one child, Robert B. Webb. Bertie Routh Barron passed away in 1916.
This series contains correspondence from and about Bertie Routh Barron accounting for her time spent at Baylor Female College. Within the correspondence, Bertie relates stories of her academic pursuits, friendships and living conditions at the university. This series also includes correspondence from Baylor Female College to Bertie’s father, James M. Barron and various correspondence from Barron family members. This is the largest series in the Bertie Routh Barron Papers. It is in good condition.
This series includes financial statements from Baylor Female College regarding Bertie’s schooling. Included are listings of all expenses she incurred. This series is in excellent condition.
This series includes grade reports, newspaper clippings and two essays regarding Bertie Routh Barron’s matriculation at Baylor Female College. This series is in good condition.
This series includes portraits of Bertie Routh Barron and her parents, James M. and Virginia “Jennie” Barron. This series is in good condition.
Calvary Baptist Church of Waco, Texas, was organized in 1928 February. The church resulted in the merging of two local congregations, the Brook Avenue Baptist and Provident Heights Baptist churches. Calvary Baptist continues to serve the greater Waco community. Brook Avenue Baptist, located on the rear lot of Seventh Street and Brook Avenue, and Provident Heights Baptist, 1100 North 18th Street, were organized in 1909. In the seventeen years of each institution’s existence, a combined eleven pastors served the congregations. When the two churches consolidated, Provident Heights had a debt of $25,000 from a construction project of a permanent brick building. The combining of the two churches released their mutual pastors from service. On 1928 February 5 the churches met and voted on the churches’ consolidation, the new organization’s name and chairman, church covenant, and articles of faith. A nominating and pulpit committee was organized and began the search for a pastor for the newly established Calvary Baptist Church, North 18th and Bosque Boulevard. On 1928 April 1 Reverend A. J. Holt began his services as the first pastor. He was a graduate of Baylor University and Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary and a trustee of Hillcrest Baptist Hospital. The records in this collection were created during his tenure as pastor. In 1953, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity Degree from Baylor. Dr. Holt concluded his services as pastor on 1958 May 31. During Dr. Holt’s tenure, the church began its first major building projects. The first was the construction of a second education building, erected in 1937, a nursery constructed in 1947, and a new auditorium in 1954. The new auditorium also housed new offices, a pastor’s study, choir room, and Fellowship Hall with a stage and kitchen. In 1955, all church buildings were air-conditioned. Calvary Baptist Church continues to worship, minister, and serve the people of Waco and surrounding communities.
The Literary Productions series contains the final copy of church publications that were printed at an unknown local printing shop. In addition, there are two memorandum books and an undated churchdirectory. This series is in average to good condition.
Raymond Biles was born on 1921 January 19 in San Antonio, Texas. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in Education from Baylor University and a doctorate in 1967 from the University of Texas. He taught in the Rosebud, San Antonio, and Alice school districts before beginning his 30 year career with Baylor in 1958. He was a member of Grace Temple Baptist Church. He and his wife Majorie had two children, Mickie and Ray. In addition to articles within his profession, Dr. Biles also collected editorial cartoons from 1965-1985 as a hobby. After his death in the spring of 1991, over twenty large boxes of these cartoons were given by his family to the W.R. Poage Legislative Library as the Raymond Biles Editorial Cartoon Collection. Biles also served on the board of the Waco Citizen’s Advisory Committee dedicated to providing support and a public voice to the desegregation efforts of Waco-area schools.
This series primarily contains photocopies of newspaper clippings dealing with issues related to the desegregation of Texas educational institutions. Articles are sorted chronologically and placed in subseries based around major metropolitan areas. Articles that deal with multiple cities or Texas as a whole are located in the “General Texas” subseries. A small amount of other published materials such as magazines or pamphlets are also included. All non-photocopied items are generally in good condition.
This series contains a variety of materials pertaining to Raymond E. Biles’ role as a board member of the Citizen’s Advisory Committee in Waco. Generally items are divided into two subseries: Mr. Biles’ correspondence with concerned Waco citizenry and his own notes, drafts and professional materials concerning his work with the committee. Of particular note is a signed petition pertaining to a local redistricting issue. The materials are in good to fair condition.
The First Baptist Church of Waco was established on 1851 May 31 by four charter members along with Noah T. Byars, who became their first pastor on June 1. Originally the church met in the meeting place of the First Methodist Church. In 1857 the congregation moved to a building located at Fourth and Mary until 1877 when the building was destroyed by a fire. Construction for a new building began immediately. The new structure was completed in 1883 and lasted until 1907. The current building was erected in 1907 located on Fifth and Webster. In the early 1870’s under the direction of Rev. B.H. Carroll the church underwent innovative changes such as the introduction of instrumental music in worship. During this time period First Baptist Church of Waco also allowed Women to serve as deacons. They also were invited for the first time, by Rev. B.H. Carroll, to the Southern Baptist Convention in 1883. In 1915, First Baptist Church’s longest serving pastor, Dr. J.M. Dawson, started his tenure. Dr. J.M. Dawson concentration was on the church budget. During his tenure a campaign was launched called Southern Baptist Convention’s 75 Million Dollar Campaign. The First Baptist Church was assigned with raising 200,000 dollars, the largest portion given to any church. Even during the Great Depression Dr. J.M. Dawson was still dedicated to the church budget even sacrificing his own salary. Dr.J. M. Dawson was also concerned with social issues such as racial and gender prejudice and the separation of church and state. Along with his pastoral duties he also served vice president of the Baptist General Convention of Texas in 1922, the chairman of the Southern Baptist Committee on World Peace in 1945, and the chairman of the Executive Committee of the Southern Baptist Convention from 1945 to 1946. He also served on the board of trustee for various institutions such as Baylor University and the Southern Baptist Convention. J.M. Dawson also published twelve books including his autobiography, and was the editor of the . The First Baptist Church also has been involved in the creation of two seminaries. One was the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary located in Fort Worth and also the George W. Truett seminary located on Baylor University campus. Along with universities First Baptist Church also contributed to the founding of Hillcrest Baptist Medical Center in 1919. Baylor University and First Baptist Church have retained a strong relationship since 1886. Many of Baylor’s Presidents, administration, staff and students are members of the First Baptist Church. The First Baptist Church is also known for its college ministry such as the former Fidelis and Baraca Groups, and providing opportunities for service. To this day First Baptist Church of Waco is still active and serving the Waco community.
This series consists of service programs from the Young People's Department. This series also consists of literary documents such as publications that pertain to the Young People’s Department. This series is in average condition.
This series consists of correspondence, Sunday programs and advertisements pertaining to the Fidelis and Baraca Groups. These two groups were bible classes for college students; the Fidelis for the girls and the Baraca for the boys. This series also consists of letters the group would send to new Baylor female students to convince them to join Fidelis. This series is in good to average condition.
This series consists of literary productions and correspondence pertaining to church events including Sunday service programs and church events scheduled during the week. This series is in good condition.
This series consists of documents such as poems, religious publications involving religious matters or that mention the First Baptist Church. This series features a number of yearbooks from various church groups such as the Women’s Auxiliary Group, Women’s Mission Union, and Timothy Eunice Lois Sunday School. This series includes various forms of Church letterhead. This series is in good condition.
This series consists of budget reports and promotional items to increase the church budget. This series consists of an account book from 1943. This series is in average condition.
This series consist of documents pertaining to First Baptist Church acquiring a new organ. This series includes letters and brochures from various organ manufacturers around the country. This series includes telegram correspondence and a sketch of the church organ. This series is in good condition.
Established in 1851 while Baylor University was located in Independence, Texas, the Philomathesian Literary Society was the first literary society to be established in Texas. The Philomathesians’ motto was “Esse quam videri malo,” which is Latin for “to be, rather than to seem to be,” and their colors were white and blue to represent purity and sincerity. During regular meetings, they held debates, orations, and wrote essays about a variety of controversial and conversational topics not covered in university classes. The society was formed not only to boost oratory skills and intellectual growth but also as a social organization to promote extracurricular activities among the students. The Philomathesian Literary Society consisted only of male members, as did their rivals, the Erisophian Literary Society, which formed after half of the “Philos” separated in 1867. Baylor also boasted two female literary societies, the Calliopean Literary Society formed in 1867 and the Rufus C. Burleson Society formed in 1888. Society rivalry was rampant between the literary societies, eventually leading to the alliance of the Philomathesians with the “Callies” and the “Sophies” with the “R.C.B.s”. Each society engaged in active recruitment; enlisting new members was fiercely competitive and led to members of the male organizations illegally recruiting incoming freshmen while riding the trains to Waco. Students considered committing membership to a society an essential part of student life. One of the editors of the Baylor Literary, the monthly publication of the Philomathesians and Erisophians, commented that “no man can be a real Baylor man apart from his society EL the most potent power in Baylor’s existence has always been that of her literary societies.”The four literary societies maintained a large collection of books for use of their respective members. By 1900, the Philomathesian Literary Society owned 1,700 books, mostly standard works and classics. About five percent of the collection was religious. The Erisophians held around 1,900 books and the female societies had 700 books, mostly fiction. In contrast, the University library amounted to 4,000 books, but this was not regarded as the best collection, being made up of such donated books as students could spare. The literary societies decided to donate their library collections to the Baylor library once the new building, Carroll Library, was completed in 1903, making their books available for use by all students. The presence and prominence of the Philomathesians and the other literary societies at Baylor began to decline by the early 1920s due to an increase interest in athletics and other aspects of student life, such as Greek organizations. As the literary societies began to decline, other student organizations took interest in the societies’ usual activities, such as debate. Baylor’s strong background in debate can be directly attributed to the Philomathesians and the other literary societies, which eventually led to Baylor's modern debate team.
The Legal Documents series contains mainly minutes books from the Philomathesians regular meetings as well as constitutions from different years. Loose material from some of the minutes books has been taken out and put in a separate consecutive folder. Some minutes books have been separated into oversized boxes. The collection is in poor condition.
This series contains mostly roll books that maintain membership records. The register book lists members alphabetically along with the date they joined the Society. The dates for this volume were taken from the loose material. The business records are scrapbook-like volumes in which loose papers and letters referring to general business of the society’s officers, committees, and general members have been attached to the inside binding. Much of the documents from these bound volumes have become loose material that was put in separate consecutive folders. The volume labeled the &lt;i&gt;Philomathesian Literary Review&lt;/i&gt; contains articles written by members for the publication and recorded in this book. The contest records document the outcome of certain contests, such as debates and oral speeches, held between members of Philomathesians and the Erisophians and literary societies at other universities. Some of the business records and the register book have been put into oversized boxes. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains records of all of the books in the Philomathesians’ possession and includes documentation of book circulation. Each folder retained the original titles of the volumes given by the Philomathsians, some of the volumes contain much of the same information. The periodical records book documents the periodicals and other formal magazines that the secretary subscribed to for the organization’s use. This series is in poor condition.
The correspondence series contains records of a dispute between the Philomathesians and the Erisophians over the arrangement of a debate. The letters in this series show the conversation and repeated attempts to come to a consensus on who is in charge of what during the set-up of a debate.
This series is in good condition.
The Adelphian Theological Society of Baylor University was created on 1889 January 5. Thirteen young ministerial students met with Dr. Rufus C. Burleson to form the organization. The four founding officers were J.S. Tanner, W.M. Hayes, S. Tammes, and J.T. Gillespie. Together, they founded the fifth society in the history of Baylor. The principal aims of the society are to “cultivate the warmest brotherly love, sympathy, and co-operation in Christian work; to study Bible truths, and to aid every member by kindly criticism and advice.” The object of the organization was, as stated by the members, “We, the ministerial students of Baylor University, striving to prepare ourselves for the teaching of God’s Word, and realizing the advantages to be secured and the benefits to be derived from concert, unity and system of action, with a view to our spiritual, mental and social development, we do hereby resolve ourselves into an organization for the investigation of Gospel truths.” The colors of the Adelphian Society were blue and white. The Adelphian Theological Society slowly developed a library and was largely helped by the donation of the Kimball library of 1,200 volumes of books donated by the widow of J.A. Kimball. After a few years the Adelphians grew to have one of the best collections of theological books in the Southwest. There was no mention of the Adelphians in the Baylor Round-up after 1907 as an active society.
This series contains ledgers and loose materials found in those ledgers, including letters from different members to the society. Also in this series is a ledger containing various stories from members of the society and other published works that they found important. Items found in folders one through five are loose materials from the scrapbooks found in oversize box five. This collection is in good to fair condition.
This series contains a variety of loose material and bound papers concerning the operationsof the Adelphian Theological Society. This series most notably contains the constitution of the society along with a list of the active officers. This collection is in fair to good condition.
This Series includes a wide variety of financial records involving the Adelphian Society. Most of this information is located in ledgers and loose materials found in those ledgers. This collection is in fair to good condition.
This series is very brief and only includes a graduation invitation dated 1916, which is in good condition.
Francis Gevrier Guittard was born in New Bedford, Ohio, on 1867 January 7. His father, Dr. Francis Joseph Guittard, had immigrated from France at a young age after he refused to become a Catholic clergyman. The elder Guittard moved to Ohio where he met his wife Lydia Meyers. Young Francis was one of eight children born to the couple. In 1886, Francis was encouraged by his parents to set out for Texas in search of better prospects. Guittard chose to pursue teaching as his lifelong vocation. He taught briefly in Tyler County, Texas, before he began taking classes at Baylor University. Guittard was ultimately unable to complete a degree there, but in 1897, he moved to Chicago to attend one of the nation’s fastest growing history programs at the University of Chicago. He earned his Bachelor of Arts (1901) and his Master of Arts (1902) degrees at the ages of 34 and 35. Guittard then returned to Texas in pursuit of academic employment. Baylor University President Samuel Palmer Brooks offered him a position in the history department, and Guittard remained in this position until his death, serving as the Chairman of the department for over forty years. In 1906, Guittard married Mamie Welhausen. The couple had three children: Francis Gevrier, Jr. (1907), Charles Welhausen (1915), and Clarence Alwin (1917). Charles passed away one year after his birth, but the other two sons survived into adulthood. Mamie Guittard passed away shortly after the birth of Clarence in 1917. Francis remarried in 1920 when he wed Josephine “Mama Josie” Glenn. Although Francis Guittard had secured his teaching position at a university, he was not satisfied with his level of education. In the 1920s, Guittard took courses at Leeland Stanford University in California, balancing his own schoolwork with his teaching duties. This hard work paid off in 1931, when Guittard, at the age of 64, earned his Ph.D. with his dissertation “Roosevelt and Conservation.”Dr. Guittard returned to Baylor University and devoted his time and effort to the education of his students. On April 28, 1950, Guittard passed away due to a heart attack. He was survived by his wife Josephine and his two sons, Francis and Clarence. In 1959, the year following Josephine Guittard’s passing, a fellowship was created by the will of Dr. and Mrs. Francis Guittard. The Guittard Fellowship continues to fund students who are pursuing history at the graduate level.
The following series contains personal and business correspondence from Dr. Francis Gevrier Guittard. Letters composed in French, which were primarily letters from Guittard's ancestors, have been designated accordingly. Correspondence exchanged between Dr. Guittard and members of his family, particularly his wife Josephine, have also been set apart. This series is in average to good condition.
This small series contains legal documents pertaining to Francis and Josephine Guittard. Significant materials include Josephine's passport, Francis' teaching contracts, and a legal brief. The materials are in average condition.
The following series consists of financial ledgers, receipts, and rolls collected by Francis Gevrier Guittard. The rolls for Waco public school teachers is a particularly valuable resource for the researcher interested in salary information from the 1930s and 1940s. The materials are in good condition.
This series is the largest in the collection. It is comprised of Dr. Guittard's collected history books, newspaper clippings, manuscripts that he wrote as a student, notebooks, postcards, and other printed materials. The breadth of this series is a testament to Guittard's passion for history, his travels around the world, and his love of learning. The materials are in average to good condition.
The following series contains genealogical notes and books concerning the Gevrier, Guittard, and Tombaugh families. The materials are in good condition.
This series consists of ninety-six magic lantern slides of scenes throughout Europe during World War I as well as photographs of members of the Guittard family, many unidentified persons, and a few locations. They are arranged by individual and place name and then alphabetized. While most of the photographic materials are undated, they appear to be from the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The items in this series are in good condition.
The following series contains personal items belonging to Francis Guittard including a political pin, various ribbons, and a pair of eyeglasses. The materials are in average condition.
The following series contains certificates and awards collected by the Guittard family. Prominent items include Francis Joseph Guittard's medical certificates, Francis Gevrier Guittard's diplomas from the University of Chicago, and the wedding certificate for Guittard's marriage to Mamie Welhausen. The materials are in good condition.
The following series contains two scrapbooks compiled by the Guittards. Scrapbook One contains brochures, clippings, postcards, and photographs pertaining to Baylor University, Pat Neff, and the Guittard family. Scrapbook Two consists of materials gathered from a family vacation taken in 1937.
The materials are in good condition.
The following series contains maps collected by Francis Guittard. The foci of these maps range in diversity from individual states to the South China Sea. The materials are in good condition.
The following series contains attendance books, grade books, and other classroom materials created by Dr. Francis Gevrier Guittard. Due to privacy laws, these materials could be restricted to the public. Please see an archivist for details. The materials are in good condition.
Born in New Orleans, Louisiana, on 1909 April, 9 Oscar Norbert DuCongé was the first African-American mayor of Waco, Texas, serving from 1974-1975. Additionally, he served as a Waco city councilman in 1972 and was an avid volunteer in the community up to his death on July 26, 1978.
Former Waco Mayor, Roger Conger, received the extensive collection of Waco photographer Fred A. Gildersleeve some time after his death. The subject matter of the photo negatives contained in this collection were either requested by DuCongé or selected by Conger to present as a gift.
Fred A. Gildersleeve, whose work comprises this entire collection, was born on 1880 June 30, and came to Waco in 1905 living here until his death in 1958. During most of this time he documented important aspects of the city's history, life, culture, and events. Additionally, he is one of Waco’s best-known photographers being commissioned by local businesses, residents, Baylor University, and the African-American Paul Quinn College, the latter of which the bulk of the Gildersleeve-DuCongé Collection represents. Paul Quinn College was originally started in Austin, TX., in 1872, as the Connectional High School and Institute for Negro Youth. When the school moved to Waco in 1877 on 8th and Mary Streets, it was known as Waco College and taught trades such as blacksmithing, carpentry, and tanning to newly freed slaves. It became Paul Quinn College in 1881 named after Bishop William Paul Quinn, the fourth Bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. It was then relocated to Elm Street in east Waco on 20 acres of land that was once part of the Garrison Plantation. In 1952 December, Paul Quinn Colleges’ girl’s dormitory was destroyed by fire. The following year in 1953 May, the campus was affected by a devastating tornado that tore away roofs and caused widespread damage to the entire campus. This same tornado destroyed a large part of downtown Waco and killed a total of 114 people. However, by 1954, the African Methodist Episcopal Church came to the aid of Paul Quinn College and paid off their debts and additionally funded the construction of the $150,000 Gomez Administration Building. In 1954, the Waco Chamber of Commerce launched a successful community wide campaign and raised $100,000 for the construction of a new girls dormitory to replace the one destroyed by fire. In 1964, Waco businessmen helped aid Paul Quinn College in the construction of the Sherman-Abington Library that could house 30,000 volumes. In 1968, a women’s dormitory, Lucy Hughes Hall, and a men’s dormitory, Richard Allen Hall, were both constructed partly from a grant through the Moody Foundation. In 1967, Paul Quinn College earned further funding under the “Model Cities” program. Waco earned this designation at a time when the community was almost ten years into a wide scale federal Urban Renewal program. In 1968, Paul Quinn College was the only four-year institution in the city’s targeted redevelopment area for the “Model Cities” program. Additionally, the college received funds from Baylor University and Texas State Technical Institute in a cooperative project due to its location in a “Model Cities” redevelopment section of Waco. All of this work had greatly benefitted the institution and by 1972, its 100th anniversary, the Paul Quinn College campus and facilities were valued at 2 million dollars. By 1979, the operating budget of the college was 2.5 million dollars and operated on funding by the African Methodist Episcopal Church, United Negro College Fund, federal funding, and private donations. In 1990, Paul Quinn College moved to Dallas, TX. Currently still in operation, the institution is the oldest liberal arts college for African-Americans in the state of Texas. The former campus located at 1020 Elm Avenue is now occupied by the Rapaport Academy Quinn Campus Middle School and the Meyer High School.
Evangelia Settlement was founded in Waco, Texas in 1907 by Ethel Dickson and Nell Symes. It was first located at the intersection of 13th Street and Webster Street. Evangelia Settlement was chartered by the state of Texas on 1912 June 1 in McLennan County, Texas. It was formed for the purpose of "support of benevolent, charitable, educational and missionary undertakings being purely public in its nature." Evangelia Settlement became the first day care program for underprivileged children in Waco. Evangelia Settlement was one of eighteen known settlement houses in urban areas of Texas in the early 1900s. Settlement houses were established from the 1890s through the early part of the 1900s primarily by white, young, middle-class men and women who were interested in religous and social concerns. These men and women moved into urban areas of cities and established homes where they lived and worked to improve conditions for residents through financial, material, social, and educational venues. Evangelia Settlement served as a daycare facility and over the years transformed into a neighborhood center. The Settlement served as a venue for community activities such as hosting the first Campfire Girls troop in Waco in 1916 and the first Vacation Bible School in Waco in 1918. In the late 1960s, through private donations and grants from foundations such as the Cooper Foundation and United Way, Evangelia established the Emergency Baby Cottage to provide long-term care to infants and young children. By the 1970s Evangelia was licensed by the state to care for 147 children up to age twelve and had a lengthy waiting list, according to director Rosemary Painter. Evangelia Settlement continued to make contributions to the greater Waco community by providing childcare to underprivledged children until 2007, when the organization lost legal standing with the state and closed its doors.
This series contains correspondence associated with Evangelia Settlement. This series includes materials to and from the Cooper Foundation about various grant projects, documentation about the planning of the Emergency Baby Cottage, and information about the estate of Charles and Maud E.
Hamilton and the bequest they left to Evangelia Settlement.
This series contains articles of incorporation and bylaws for Evangelia Settlement, as well as multiple versions of the Evangelia Settlement Constitution. Also included are the minutes from board of directors' meetings and legal reports about children served by Evangelia Settlement.
The Financial Document series contains monthly financial reports from Evangelia Settlement that detail monthly expenses and income and provide insight into the activities of the organization during that time. Also included are passbooks, ledgers, audit paperwork and invoices.
The Literary Production series contains literary reports, printed material, clippings, and three books related to Evangelia Settlement. Reports in this series are primarily related to the board, various fundraisers, the Cooper Foundation and former director Anne Garrett. The book subseries includes a yearbook produced by the Board of Directors, a guestbook signed by visitors to Evangelia Settlement, and a contact book compiled by social workers.
The Photographic Material series contains photographs related to Evangelia Settlement. The majority of the pictures are of the children who went to Evangelia Settlement. The photographs are grouped by type and include depictions of children at the playground, indoors, and during meal times.
There are also photographs from Christmas and other special events.
The Scrapbooks series contains four scrapbooks. Two scrapbooks consist primarily of newspaper clippings. One of these scrapbooks has a drawing of the floor plan for the Emergency Baby Cottage. The other scrapbook primarily consisting of newspaper clippings has a page with three photographs of children at a Christmas event. The other two scrapbooks consist primarily of photographs and literary productions, such as programs and other printed materials. The series is in fair to good condition.
Lula Pace was born toWilliam Jennings and Olive Wilder Pace in Newton, Mississippi, on 1868 November 3. Within a year, the Pace family relocated to the Central Texas region, settling in Bell County. One of the advantages to this new residence for Lula Pace was the presence of Baylor Female College in Belton. Pace earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Baylor Female College in 1890. For the next few years, Pace taught in Temple’s public schools. During the summers, she attended the University of Chicago. This hard work, which continued over nine consecutive summers, paid off for Pace. She graduated from the University of Chicago with her Master of Science degree in 1902. Shortly thereafter, she became an Assistant Professor of Biology at Baylor University. In 1903, she was the only female professor in the science department and one of only five at the entire university. Pace flourished in her position at Baylor. She continued her education during the summers and graduated with her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1907. Her dissertation concerned plant cytology. The degree earned Pace the honor of becoming the first female professor at Baylor to ever hold a Ph.D. From 1903 to 1925, Dr. Pace continued to teach courses in biology, geology, and botany. In 1907, after earning her Ph.D., Pace was appointed the Chair of the Department of Botany and Geology at Baylor, a position that she held until her death. Dr. Pace was popular among her students for her professionalism and her field trips which she led across Central Texas, the Rocky Mountains, and even as far as Yellowstone National Park. In 1910-1911, Dr. Pace took a sabbatical to study under prominent German botanists at the University of Bonn. She came under attack from conservative fundamentalists, including Dr. Frank Norris of Waco, for teaching evolution as part of her curriculum, but was supported by many Waco citizens and Baylor President Samuel Palmer Brooks. Pace passed away at the age of 56 on 1925 June 16. She was survived by her mother, a sister Mrs. A.C. Buchanon, and a brother R.E. Pace. Rev. J.M. Dawson and Dr. Samuel Palmer Brooks officiated.
This series contains two folders of correspondence. The first folder consists of letters written by acquaintances of Lula Pace. For the most part, these are reflections of Pace's character. The second folder contains two letters written to Dr. Pace. The materials are in good condition.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains the literary productions produced by Dr. Lula Pace. Notebooks and assignments from her time as a graduate student make up most of the series. There are also some publications written by Dr. Pace, including a "Geology of McLennan County, Texas." The materials are in average to good condition.
This series contains eleven topographical maps from the American mid-west. Pace, as a graduate student at the University of Chicago, studied the geology of the surrounding areas. The maps are in average to good condition and have been placed in Mylar sleeves for preservation purposes.
Isabella Martin Henry was born in Waco, Texas on 1910 September 27. Isabella was the second oldest daughter of Lawrence Seymour Henry and Anna Sloane Ingram. Her family lived and worked in Waco with her father owning the L.S. Henry Printing and Stationery Company. Before joining the United States Armed Forces, Henry had an excellent education that prepared her for her military career. Henry attended the Academy of Sacred Heart in Waco, Waco High School, and the College of Industrial Arts in Denton, Texas. Henry later earned a Bachelor's degree from the University of Texas in Austin, briefly attended the University of California at Berkley, and received her Master of Arts in sociology from Texas State College for Women in Denton, Texas. Isabella Henry had a successful career after the introduction of women into the Armed Forcesduring World War II. Because Henry had no dependents, she was able to enlist in the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps in 1942 August and was inducted into the service on 1942 September 7. She was later appointed to the rank of Third Officer on 1943 January 9. On 1948 December 8, Henry was promoted to First Lieutenant in the Women's Army Corps. The members of the Women's Army Corps were the first women to serve within the ranks of the United States Army. With this new opportunity for women in World War II, women served a variety of roles both in the United States and overseas. Henry has been noted for her influence on the unit's news publications throughout the United States Continental Army Command. For her service, Isabella M. Henry received numerous honors. Henry received the certificate of commendation from the Chief of Ordnance for her services that ranged from 1944 August 10-1945 December 2. Henry also won the Army commendation ribbon in 1945 for her work in the Field Service sub office at Frankford Arsenal in Philadelphia as the Assistant in the Redistribution and Disposal Division and Stock Control Division. In addition, she was awarded a Certificate of Achievement from the United States Continental Army Command. After nineteen years of dedicated service, Henry retired from active duty on 1961 January 1. She was a lifetime member of the Women's Army Corps Museum Society. At the completion of her service, Henry stated that she intended to visit her siblings.
Isabella Henry had two sisters, Henrietta and Mary Catherine, and one brother, Lawrence. On 1994 February 20, Isabella passed away and was buried at Holy Cross Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
The Correspondence Series contains general correspondence of which the majority concerns Isabella M. Henry and her military service. Most of the documentation details the specifics of the certificates she received and includes letters of appreciation for her time served.
The Legal Documents Series consists of documentation such as Isabella M. Henry's military history, personal history, military identification card, and general documents.
The Literary Productions Series contains art, military certificates, membership certificates and news clippings concerning Isabella M. Henry's service in and retirement from the United States military.
The Photographic Materials Series contains undated photographs and a slide of Isabella M. Henry.
Marvin Collins Griffin was born in Wichita, Kansas, on February 20, 1923. He was the son of William Marvin Collins and Beulah Howell. Raised by his uncle and aunt near Dallas, Texas, Griffin felt a call to the ministry at the age of seven. Griffin used his education to prepare for a career in preaching the gospel and fighting for African American civil rights. He spent his youth in the Dallas public school system. In 1943, Griffin graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Bishop College. Four years later, he earned a degree in Divinity from Oberlin Graduate School of Theology. In 1955, Griffin became the first African American to graduate from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary when he earned a Master of Religious Education degree. In 1990, Griffin received his Doctorate of Ministry from Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Reverend Griffin began preaching in 1940 and was ordained two years later. While earning his degree from Oberlin, Griffin served as a professor at the Oklahoma Baptist School of Religion (1944-1948). His first significant pastoral assignment was New Hope Baptist Church in Waco. From 1951 to 1969, Griffin led his growing congregation in social activism within the community. He began an extensive radio broadcast ministry and led various marches and pickets in Waco. In 1969, Griffin relocated to Ebenezer Baptist Church in Austin, Texas, where he remained for the next forty-two years. Once again, Griffin believed that his church should be involved in the spiritual and secular life of the community. He led the church’s efforts in creating the East Austin Economic Development Corporation (EAEDC) in 1998. This organization allowed the church to assist the underprivileged through housing programs, day care centers, counseling, and financial assistance. In 2002, the EAEDC building was renamed in honor of Marvin Griffin. Reverend Griffin retired from his pastorship of the Ebenezer Baptist Church on July 31, 2011. In addition to his pastoral duties, Griffin was also involved in local politics and denominational affairs. He served as the first African American president of the Austin Independent School District Board of Directors when the schools were using buses to encourage desegregation. Griffin was also involved in the Missionary Baptist General Convention of Texas, he was the Director of the Christian Education Enrichment Program at the National Baptist Fellowship of Churches, and he served as a Director-Lecturer for the Teacher Training Department of the National Baptist Sunday School Congress. Griffin married Lois King on August 5, 1944. They had three daughters: Marva Lois Carter, Gaynelle Jones, and Ria Griffin. Mrs. Lois Griffin passed away in 2006 and Marvin Griffin passed away on December 25, 2013.
The Ministry series contains the research and records of Marvin C. Griffin's pastoral career. The Personal subseries includes mostly research for sermons. The National Baptist subseries includes records of his involvement with various national Baptist conferences and committees. The series is in excellent condition. Most of the sermons in Series I, Subseries II are in binders sorted by book of the Bible and include an inventory in the front cover. For example, each binder of sermons on Genesis has an inventory listing of each sermon in that binder, including the sermon title and the date it was given.
The Civic Engagement series includes records and administrative files for various political and civic organizations of which Marvin C. Griffin was an active member. The series is in good condition.
The Subject Files series includes Marvin C. Griffin's research for all areas of his career, sorted by organization or topic. There is also some biographical material on the Griffin family. The series is in good condition.
The Audio-Visual Materials include mostly video tapes, reels and cassette tapes of sermons given by Marvin C. Griffin and other prominent Baptist pastors. There are some photographs and scrapbooks as well. Researchers should reference the supplementary document attached to this finding aid for a complete list of the cassette tapes in this series. The series is in good condition.
Memorial Baptist Church, located in Waco, Texas, was established in 1943 May by a group consisting of Sunday School teachers, officers, deacons, and other Waco citizens. The name “Memorial Baptist Church” was chosen to commemorate the fallen soldiers of World War II and served as a memorial for fallen soldiers who had fought for the United States. Although the church did not initially have an official building, the Memorial Baptist Church congregation held their meetings and conducted their Sunday School classes and services in various church member’s homes. The first pastor of Waco Memorial Baptist Church was Reverend A. Meyers and shortly after he was installed, the church purchased the building and grounds at 801 South 22nd Street, Waco, Texas. The members of the church donated money to fund part of the purchase. The first meeting at this site occurred on 1943 June 27, which was conducted under the tent tabernacle purchased by the church. Three months later under the supervision of D.B. Wiley, the construction of the auditorium commenced and completed later that year. At the end of the church’s first year of operation, the Sunday School enrollment had grown from 63 to 308 participants. Memorial Baptist Church celebrated its first anniversary on 1944 May 7 with 272 individuals present. In 1949 February, J.M. Rickerson presented to the congregation a Hammond organ as a gift. Later on 1951 July 4, due to the increasing congregation member numbers and Sunday school participants, the church voted to erect an additional education building on the ground to utilize for the growing Sunday School classes. On 1960 April 1, the church purchased the final site for Memorial Baptist Church at 2218 Ross Avenue. A new auditorium was dedicated on 1960 October 23 to serve a total church membership of 1,100. Due to the continuing expanding membership of church, the building facing 22nd Street was later purchased as an addition and was converted into a Youth Building. On 2002 December 31, Waco Memorial Baptist church closed due to dwindling membership, but the church still had sufficient funds to continue to operate. When Memorial Baptist Church purchased the land for their final site, the neighborhood was predominately a Caucasian neighborhood and slowly evolved into a predominately Hispanic neighborhood. The church failed to attract the newer area residents, resulting in gradually diminishing numbers. The church and grounds eventually were donated to the Waco Baptist Association of which the church was a participating member. The church and grounds continued to be used as a church and now is Maranatha Church, a member of Waco Baptist Association. In the church’s 59 year history, the church was led by seven pastors, A. Meyers, Harry Brasher, B. Gene Grace, Joe Cranfill, Kenneth Dill, Derek Dodson and finally Jimmie Spann.
This series contains the correspondence produced by the Waco Memorial Baptist Church. Included are the letters from the church to the Old Church Association which details general information about the church and correspondence that was written in 2003, when the church was closed and the grounds were donated. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains the legal documents of Waco Memorial Baptist Church. These documents include the minutes from the business meetings, minutes from the deacons meetings, minutes from the buildings and grounds meetings, minutes from the Youth Council meetings and finally the minutes from the “Trailblazers” Senior Citizens meetings. Also included are the constitutions for the Waco Memorial Baptist Church and Youth Council. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains the financial documents of the Waco Memorial Baptist Church. These financial documents include annual reports, budgets, financial reports, and the church’s ledgers from 1967-1991. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains the literary productions of the Waco Memorial Baptist Church. Such literary productions include a history of the church, Waco Baptist Association letters and reports, invitations, church certificates, membership records, membership cards and church bulletins. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains the scrapbook from the Memorial Baptist Church Youth Council group. It includes photographs of members and parties, bulletins, invitations and other short publications concerning the Youth Council. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains photographs pertaining to the internal church organization, the Youth Council, photographs of the church buildings and meeting places, and photographs from various church events. The material is in good condition.
Roxie Henderson was from West, Texas, and attended Baylor University from 1917-1920. In 1920, she received her Bachelor's Degree from Baylor University in education. While at Baylor, Henderson was a very active member of the Baylor student community. She was a participating member and secretary of the Overseas Club for which she hosted numerous meetings and parties in her home. Henderson also served overseas during World War I as a nurse in the American Expeditionary Forces and as a member of the American Red Cross. During World War I, the American Red Cross experienced phenomenal growth and helped staff hospitals, ambulance companies and provided national and international relief. Throughout the war, more than eighteen thousand Red Cross nurses served in the Army and Navy Nurse Corps. The majority of Henderson's time overseas was spent in France. While abroad, Henderson stayed in contact with Baylor University through the university's publications, The Daily Lariat. In her column in the newspaper, she wrote on her experiences overseas, her travels, her time in the Officers' Club, her observations of the troops and her experiences while serving in hospitals. Overall, she spoke highly of her time overseas. Henderson also worked as a traveling representative in France for the vocational education department for disabled soldiers. She was one of twenty-five representatives in France. Roxie Henderson passed away on 1941 August 8, and is buried in Vaughan Cemetery in Hill County, Texas.
The Personal Series contains the personal items of Roxie Henderson. This includes her autograph book, her bible and a collection of historical signatures. The materials are in good condition.
The Collected Materials Series contains items collected by Roxie Henderson. These items include letters from William Frederick "Buffalo Bill" Cody and Daniel Webster, an American Red Cross pamphlet, World War I era postcards and editions of New York Herald. The materials are in good condition.
Dr. Kenneth Hazen Aynesworth was a prominent surgeon in the Waco community during the early 1900s and a famous collector of Texan materials. The gift of his personal library and papers began what is now The Texas Collection. Kenneth Aynesworth, the son of George Levin and Ellen Hickman Aynesworth, was born in Florence, Texas, on 1873 February 9. He attended Baylor University from 1892 to 1894,and was once a roommate of Pat Neff. In 1899, Aynesworth earned his medical degree from the University of Texas Medical School at Galveston. Three years later, on 1902 December 31, he married Maude Brian. The couple had four children: Kenneth, Jr., Edna Maude, Nancy, and Brian. His work in the field of medicine brought many opportunities to Aynesworth. While finishing his doctoral degree, he interned at John Sealy Hospital in Galveston. In 1902, prior to his marriage to Maude Brian, Aynesworth pursued postgraduate studies at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin. Returning to the United States, Aynesworth began his own private practice of general surgery in Waco, Texas. In 1909, he studied at the prestigious medical school at John Hopkins University. For over forty years, Dr. Aynesworth practiced medicine in the Waco area, primarily at Providence Hospital. Many of his medical research papers can be found in the collection. Despite his busy work schedule, Aynesworth was involved in a number of medical and local organizations including the Waco Board of Health, the Waco School Board, the Waco Planning and Zoning Commission, and the American College of Surgeons. In addition to his professional work, Dr. Aynesworth was a collector of Texas history. In 1923, he donated hundreds of items to Baylor University in order to found The Kenneth Hazen Aynesworth Texas History Collection. To ensure the collection was properly funded, Aynesworth contributed to the institution on an annual basis. The name of the repository was changed to the Texas Historical Collection, which later became The Texas Collection. Aynesworth devoted much of his spare time promoting the education of others. He donated a large collection of American Indian archaeological materials to the John K. Strecker Museum, now known as the Mayborn. For his generosity, Baylor University awarded Dr. Aynesworth with an honorary law degree in 1933. In the late 1930s, Aynesworth served as a regent for the University of Texas, where a small collection of his papers are housed to this day. On 1944 October 30, Aynesworth died of a cerebral hemorrhage. He is buried in Oakwood Cemetery.
The family series contains correspondence, genealogical materials, and general documents pertaining to Dr. Kenneth Aynesworth and his family. Subseries I. Family Correspondence is one of the largest sections in the Aynesworth Papers. The materials are in average to good condition.
This subseries contains correspondence that Kenneth Aynesworth exchanged between himself and his family members including his wife (Maude Brian), his children (Kenneth, Edna, Brian) and other relatives. The materials are in average to good condition.
This subseries contains correspondence, family trees, and other materials pertaining to directly to the Aynesworths' genealogy. There is even a book by Ed Aynesworth entitled Aynesworth Genealogy found within this subseries. The materials are in average condition.
This subseries contains subject files pertaining to various members of the Aynesworth family. Materials range from correspondence to literary productions. The materials are in average condition.
This series contains sent correspondence, received correspondence, cards, and classifed correspondence involving Dr. Kenneth Aynesworth. Topics of these letters include politics, history, medicine, business, and education. The materials are in good condition.
The following subseries contains correspondence written to Kenneth Aynesworth from friends and co-workers. The materials are organized chronologically and are in average to good condition.
The following series is comprised of correspondence that Kenneth Aynesworth sent to friends and co-workers. The series is organized alphabetically by the last name of the individual to whom Aynesworth was writing. The materials are in average to good condition.
The following subseries contains greeting cards, Christmas cards, announcements, wedding invitations, graduation invitations, and tickets stubs collected by Dr. Aynesworth. The materials are in good condition.
This subseries contains correspondence that Dr. Aynesworth exchanged with fellow members of the Philosopher's Club, an organization created in appreciation of various historical philosophers. The materials are in good condition.
This subseries contains correspondence exchanged between Dr. Kenneth Aynesworth and Baylor University officials. Noticeably absent from the materials are letters from Aynesworth's time at Baylor as a student and correspondence pertaining to his initial gift which became The Texas Collection.
The materials are in good condition.
This series contains photographs and tintypes pertaining to the Aynesworth family. There is also a folder of photographs concerning World War II England, one of Aynesworth's sons was a veteran of the European theater. These materials are in good condition.
This series contains medical records from Dr. Aynesworth's practice in the Waco area. Materials pertaining to the Central Texas Clinic, Hillcrest Hospital, Providence Hospital, and Providence Sanitarium can be found in this series. The materials are in good condition.
Dr. Aynesworth was an avid collector of local and state history. This series contain subject files pertaining to various topics of interest including education, Baylor University, politics, medicine, Texas, Waco, and World War II. The materials are in average to good condition.
This series contains materials collected, not produced, by Kenneth Aynesworth. This series is different from the subject files because the materials are not organized by topic but by type of material. However, the themes of politics, history, education, and medicine are still prominent. The series is in good condition.
This series contains addresses, manuscripts, essays, and other literary productions produced by or directly pertaining to Dr. Kenneth Aynesworth. Medical and educational essays are particularly well-represented in the series. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains personal materials belonging to Kenneth Aynesworth including records of his membership in various local and medical organizations, legal papers, and certificates. The materials are in average to good condition.
This series contains correspondence and printed materials pertaining to Dr. Kenneth Aynesworth's memberships in various medical and local organizations. Some of the organizations featured include the American College of Surgeons, the Central Texas Archaeological Society, the Southern Surgical Association, the Texas Academy of Science, the Texas State Historical Association, and the Waco City Club. The materials are in good condition.
The following subseries contains personal materials pertaining to Kenneth Aynesworth and his family. Of particular importance are the legal documents from the late nineteenth century, a bond purchased by Aynesworth during World War II, and a certificate bestowed upon Aynesworth by the United States embassy in Berlin. The materials are in average condition.
Nicholas Guy Pocock, the son of Derek and Mabel Winifred (Knight) Pocock, was born on 1934 June 15 near London, England. When he was thirteen years old, Nicholas experienced his first airplane flight as a passenger, and decided to go into the aviation field. In 1952, at a mere seventeen years old, he had obtained his pilot’s license. After attending a technical college, Pocock joined the Royal Air Force as an instrument fitter. In the early 1960s, he began competing in various air shows around Europe. At one particular world aerobatics show in Czechoslovakia, Pocock met Waco pilot Frank Price. The two competitors quickly became good friends. In 1962, Pocock was named Great Britain’s Top Aerobatic Pilot. The following year, Pocock agreed to visit Waco to help Price with an air show the latter had organized. Pocock decided to stay after meeting his future wife, Alvena Prause Trull of China Spring. The two married on 1963 December 7 and had four children: Stephen, Terry, Alicia, and Neva. Upon settling in central Texas, Pocock continued to follow his passion for aviation. He flew for a crop-dusting division for Delta Airlines based out of Bryan until a crash in 1964 temporarily placed him out of action. Later, he became an engineer for Certainteed Products in Hillsboro, a position he held for sixteen years. In addition to his practical experiences as a pilot, Pocock was also a scholar. He composed two books in his life, one concerning the Grumman/Schweizer AG-CAT aircraft and another pertaining to W.D. Custead, a man who claimed to have flown a “flying machine” near Elm Mott before the Wright Brothers’ famous flight in Kittyhawk, North Carolina. Pocock also served as a professor at nearby T.S.T.C. for twenty years, retiring in 2005. Pocock passed away in his hometown of China Spring on 2009 November 29. He was seventy-five years old.
This series contains three letters of correspondence exchanged between Pocock and his friend Tom Mathews of the Waco Times-Herald. The materials are in excellent condition.
This series contains a single item: a clipping of Waco Citizen from 1983 August 26. In this article, Pocock recounts a short history of aviation in Waco. The clipping is in good condition.
This series contains three photographs. The first shows a downed bi-plane which may be referenced by one of the letters in the first series. The other two photographs are shots of the Walker Home which was located at the intersection of 14th and Columbus. The photographs are in excellent condition.
The religious sects known as the Davidians and Branch Davidians were the products of a reform movement within the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Problems began when a group of Adventists, led by Bulgarian immigrant Victor Houteff, started to challenge the traditional hierarchy of the denomination. Houteff claimed to have received personal revelations from God and published his controversial views in a book entitled The Shepherd’s Rod (1932). Houteff and his followers, the Davidians, believed that the spiritual gift of prophecy was necessary for effective leadership so that King David’s earthly kingdom could be re-established on earth prior to the second coming of Jesus Christ. After the leaders of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church excommunicated his sect, Houteff moved to Waco, Texas, and continued to preach until his death in 1955. Upon Houteff’s death, the Davidians splintered into competing groups. Benjamin Roden and his wife Lois commanded one such faction, calling themselves the Branch Davidians. For over two decades, the Rodens led the Branch Davidians without significant opposition. The 1980's, however, brought about division. A newcomer named Vernon Howell had joined the Branch in 1981. Three years later, a schism occurred within the group, with Howell leading his followers to a new site in Palestine, Texas. Through a series of confrontations between Howell and George Roden, the son of Ben and Lois Roden, control of the Branch Davidians’ headquarters in Waco passed to Howell who legally changed his name to David Koresh in 1990. Rumors concerning polygamy, abuse, and arms dealing within the Branch Davidian group aroused the suspicions of the federal government. Thus, federal agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives began to monitor the group. In response to a stockpiling of illegal weapons, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives secured a search warrant for the investigation of the Branch Davidians’ compound near Waco, Texas. From February 28th until April 19th, 1993, Branch Davidians under the leadership of David Koresh resisted federal agents’ attempts to storm their Mount Carmel Center. The fifty-day siege ended when the compound erupted in flames, killing David Koresh and most of his followers.
This collection was donated by Andy Segal, a Senior Producer at CNN, in 2010 December. Segal grew up near Louisville, Kentucky. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Chicago and has made his career in journalism. His research in the Branch Davidians led him to file a Freedom of Information Act with the United States government for access to the materials in this collection.
This series contains three compact discs. The first, entitled "Waco Letters," contains copies of letters sent to and from the FBI during and after the siege at Mount Carmel. The other two compact discs contain transcripts of the negotiations that occurred during the siege of 1993.
R. H. Smith Papers worked as a clerk and later a merchant in Bayou Sara, in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. Located on the bank of the Mississippi River, it was the largest port city between New Orleans, Louisiana and Memphis, Tennessee. In 1836, Smith saw Generals Sam Houston and Felix Huston in Baton Rouge and the Schooner Independence in New Orleans. By 1839, Smith moved to Vandalia, Illinois, which served as the state capitol through that year.
Series I consists of three letters from R. H. Smith to relatives in Pennsylvania. One letter is accompanied by a typewritten transcription.
The Wichita Falls Symphony Records document the still-active Wichita Falls Symphony Orchestra Inc. in Wichita Falls, Texas, during the 1960s. Founded in 1947, the Wichita Falls Symphony Orchestra has consistently offered quality artistic concerts to North Texas. During the 1960s, the time period of this collection, the orchestra's board was concerned with something still familiar to musical groups: how to raise money to stay in operation. The minutes also describe the board's work to schedule concerts and fundraisers throughout the year. Through their hard work, the symphony continues to operate today, providing quality musical entertainment to the Wichita Falls community.
This series contains various letters to and from board members and others about the activities of the Wichita Falls Symphony Orchestra. The series is in good condition.
This series contains minutes from the annual board meeting and the executive committee. The series is in average condition.
This series contains legal documents about the organization's governance and organization. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains various lists of people who helped and/or participated in various events with the Wichita Falls Symphony. This series is in good condition.
The religious sects known as the Davidians and Branch Davidians were the products of a reform movement within the Seventh-Day Adventist Church. Problems began when a group of Adventists, led by Bulgarian immigrant Victor Houteff, began to challenge the traditional hierarchy of the denomination. Houteff claimed to have received personal revelations from God and published his controversial views in a book entitled The Shepherd's Rod (1932). Houteff and his followers, the Davidians, believed that the spiritual gift of prophecy was necessary for effective leadership so that King David's earthly kingdom could be re-established on earth prior to the second coming of Jesus Christ. After the leaders of the Seventh-Day Adventist Church excommunicated his sect, Houteff moved to Waco, Texas, and continued to preach until his death in 1955. Leadership among the Davidians fragmented afterwards, with Victor's widow Florence Houteff and Benjamin Roden vying for control. The group that followed Benjamin Roden and his wife Lois would later be known as the Branch Davidians. The Rodens led the Branch Davidians for several decades, but the 1980s brought about further division within the sect. A newcomer named Vernon Howell had joined the Branch Davidians in 1981. Three years later, a schism occurred within the Branch Davidians, with Howell leading his own group of followers to a new site in Palestine, Texas. Through a series of confrontations between Howell and George Roden, the son of Benjamin and Lois Roden, control of the Branch Davidians' headquarters in Waco passed to Howell, who legally changed his name to David Koresh in 1990. Rumors concerning polygamy, abuse, and arms-dealing within the Branch Davidian group aroused the suspicions of the federal government. Thus, federal agencies such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives began to monitor the group. In response to a stockpiling of illegal weapons, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives secured a search warrant for the investigation of the Branch Davidians' compound near Waco, Texas. From 1993 February 28 until April 19, Branch Davidians under the leadership of David Koresh resisted federal agents' attempts to storm their Mount Carmel Center. The fifty-day siege ended when the compound erupted in flames, killing David Koresh and most of his followers. William “Bill” Lee Pitts, the donor of the collection, is currently a professor in Baylor University’s Religion Department. Pitts earned his B.A. at Baylor in 1960, majoring in both history and religion. He then went on to earn a Master of Divinity at Vanderbilt Divinity School and his Ph.D. in religion at Vanderbilt University (1969). He currently teaches church history at the graduate student level. Pitts has long been considered an expert concerning the Davidian and Branch Davidian sects.
This series contains three folders of correspondence written to and from Dr. Bill Pitts. The materials are almost exclusively dealing with the Branch Davidian crisis of 1993.
This series, the largest in the collection, contains approximately three boxes worth of materials written and compiled by Bill Pitts. The major focus of the articles and notes is the Waco siege, but also included in the series are student exams from Dr. Pitts' classes and some pamphlets and programs produced by Baylor University.
This series, the smallest in the collection, contains a single photograph of a sign from Deliverance Today Ministries.
This series contains four audio cassette tapes in which Bill Pitts addressed a Rotary Club concerning the Davidians. The tapes were created in the midst of the fifty-day siege of the Mount Carmel Center.
Alexander Bumpass “Tip” Jones was born on 1868 April 10 in Copeville, Texas. He was the son of James Edwin Jones and Nancy Adams Bumpass. As indicated by letters to his son, Alexander pursued a career in the cattle business. On 1893 April 9, the day before his twenty-fifth birthday, Alexander married Lula Yeary. The couple had four children over the course of their marriage: David, James Weldon, Pat Neff, and Nannie “Tippie.” The eldest child passed away at the age of three, but the three youngest children all reached adulthood. Alexander passed away in Quanah, Texas, on 1963 March 2. James Weldon Jones, the second oldest child of Alexander and Lula Jones, was born on 1896 February 28 in the same town as his father. Along with his younger brother Pat, James attended Baylor University in the late 1910s. James was particularly involved in Baylor community life.
In addition to serving as the junior class poet and the Vice President of the Student Self Government Association, James was a member of a debate team, the university chorus, and the Panhandle Club. In 1917, when the United States entered World War I on the side of the Allies, James enlisted in the United States Army as a private. The bulk of this collection contains letters sent from Alexander Jones to his son James as the latter trained in San Antonio and eventually sailed overseas to France. James Weldon Jones survived the Great War and returned to the United States. Later in life, he earned political appointments in both the Truman and Eisenhower administrations. From 1934 to 1940, he served as the Insular Auditor and Financial Adviser to the High Commissioner as well as Acting High Commissioner to the Philippines. From 1941 to 1955, Jones acted as the Assistant Director of the Bureau of the Budget. James passed away on 1982 November 24 in Harris County, Texas. He was buried in Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia.
This series, the largest in the collection, contains nine folders of correspondence from the World War I era. The letters are all addressed from Alexander Bumpass "Tip" Jones to his son, Private James Weldon Jones of the United States Army. The materials are organized chronologically and are in good condition. The original letters are each accompanied by Xerox copies.
The literary productions series, which consists of one folder of biographical materials, was compiled by an unknown source. The latest materials in the packet of information are dated 2010. Included are brief notes concerning the Jones family, citations of other James Weldon Jones materials across the nation, and a Xeroxed photograph of James Weldon Jones' gravestone.
Benjamin Edwards Green was born in Elkton, Kentucky, on 1822 February 12, to Lucretia Marie Edwards and Duff Green. Benjamin's father, Duff, was an influential newspaper editor, diplomat, industrialist, and friend of Abraham Lincoln. Benjamin grew up in Washington D.C., surrounded by men with political influence and diplomatic connections. He attended Georgetown College and graduated in 1838, then turning his attentions to obtaining a law degree from the University of Virginia. Green finally settled in New Orleans to practice law. In 1843, politician John C. Calhoun was influential in securing a post for Benjamin as Secretary of the Legation to Mexico, where he served as the charge d’affaires at the Mexican capitol from 1843-1845, during the period leading up to the Mexican-American War. He had the authority to negotiate for the United States on border disputes between Mexico and Pre-Republic Texas, and after the War, was hired by Mexico to organize indemnity payments to U.S. citizens. After serving as a diplomat to Mexico, Green returned to Washington D.C. in 1845 and began writing for newspapers on political issues and practicing law. He also became heavily involved with his father in many business endeavors. In 1849, Green was sent by President Zachary Taylor to the West Indies to negotiate for a naval station with the Dominican Republic. He also was to secretly attempt to ascertain the depth of support and influence of Spain and France in the region and look into the purchase of Cuba by the U.S. government. Green returned to the U.S. In the 1850s, and again joined with his father in numerous developments in the United States that would promote industrial growth and the addition of railroads in the South. He became solicitor and general manager of the American Industrial Agency, an organization that was established to attract northern and European investments, and continually worked to promote the financial and economic growth of the South. It is unclear whether Green served in the Civil War, but with his father taking neither side in the slavery/secessionist conflict, it is highly likely that Green, too, was of the same mind. His saw slavery as a capitalism-labor issue and that the conflict between the two was “the greatest and most difficult problem of modern civilizationELleading to four years of fratricide between the states.”Benjamin E. Green died at the age of 85 after a brief illness, at his home in Dalton, Georgia. He was survived by his wife, Lizzie, two daughters and one son.
This series consists of one postcard from the Memorial Department and three pages of handwritten notes.
This series consists of one unpublished manuscript written by Green, two pamphlets, six pieces of unidentified manuscript fragments, and one postscript on State Old Age Pensions.
This series contains genealogical information relating to the Green family. One is a write-up on the Green Family as related to George Washington. Also included is a write-up on the family of General Duff Green (Benjamin's Father), and a copy of a newspaper obituary on Ben E. Green.
Vivienne Lucille Malone, the daughter of Pizarro and Vera Estelle Allen Malone, was born in Waco, Texas, on 1932 February 10. As a member of the African-American community in the South, Malone faced significant challenges growing up, particularly in the area of education. However, thanks in large part to the encouragement of her parents, who were both educators, Vivienne thrived in the pursuit of knowledge despite the obstacles that existed. From her earliest days as a student at North Seventh Street Elementary School in Waco, Vivienne experienced the challenges associated with racially segregated school systems. She did not, however, allow her circumstances to deter her. In 1948, she graduated from A.J. Moore High School at the age of sixteen. Malone then attended Fisk University where she earned her bachelor’s degree (1952) and master’s degree (1954). While at Fisk, Mayes changed her degree from medicine to mathematics after coming under the tutelage of Evelyn Granville, one of the first of two African-American women to earn her Ph.D. in mathematics. It was also during this time that Vivienne married her husband, James Mayes. After a teaching stint at Paul Quinn College, Malone-Mayes decided to pursue doctoral work in the field of mathematics. In 1961, she applied to Baylor’s graduate program but was denied entry because the school had not yet been fully integrated. She was finally accepted into the University of Texas where she became only the fifth African-American woman in the nation to earn a Ph.D. in mathematics (1966). In 1966, Dr. Malone-Mayes returned to Baylor University where she was hired to a full-time position as a professor in the mathematics department. She was the first African-American hired to such a position in Baylor history. She went on to have a successful, lengthy career in her field, serving on several boards and committees of note. She retired in 1994 due to ill health. Alongside her academic pursuits, Dr. Malone-Mayes remained active in the local community. Since the days of her childhood, Vivienne was an active member of New Hope Baptist Church. She also served on various boards for Family Counseling and Children Services, Goodwill Industries, and the Heart of Texas Region Mental Health and Mental Retardation Center. Dr. Malone-Mayes passed away in 1995 June 9 at the age of sixty-three.
This series, the largest in the collection, contains minutes, correspondence, reports, and other materials produced by the Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in Waco, Texas. Dr. Vivienne Malone-Mayes served as a member and chair of the board of trustees during the early 1970s.
This subseries contains materials produced by the Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in Waco from 1967 to 1972. Materials include minutes and reports.
This subseries contains materials produced by the Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in Waco in 1973. Materials include reports, correspondence, and minutes.
This subseries contains materials produced by the Heart of Texas Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in 1974. These include correspondence, reports, and minutes.
This subseries contains materials produced by the Heart of Texas Region Mental Health and Mental Retardation Center in 1975. These include minutes, correspondence, and reports.
The following subseries contains materials produced by the Heart of Texas Region Mental Health and Mental Retardation Center in 1976. These include correspondence, minutes, and financial reports.
This subseries contains materials produced by the Heart of Texas Region Mental Health Mental Retardation Center in 1977 including correspondence, financial documents, and minutes from the Board of Trustees.
This subseries contains all the materials produced from the Heart of Texas Mental Health Mental Retardation Center that did not have a definitive date assigned to them.
This series contains coursework, quizzes, notes, correspondence, and other materials collected by Dr. Vivienne Malone-Mayes during her early years as a Professor of Mathematics at Baylor University.
This series contains a few personal materials belonging to Dr. Malone-Mayes including correspondence, radio reports, programs, and other literary productions. The materials are in excellent condition.
Walter Hale McKenzie was born on 1885 September 17 in Dublin, Texas, to James Wilson McKenzie and Lauren Winn McKenzie. McKenzie was a prominent Texas Baptist leader from a young age. He received his A.B. from Baylor University and his Master's degree in Theology from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. He was ordained to the ministry in 1907. While preparing for ordination, McKenzie taught a course on the Bible at Goodnight Junior College for three years. A well-known minister, McKenzie served a number of pastorates in Texas throughout his career, including Burkburnett, First Baptist in Waxahachie, and University Baptist in Austin (1931-1943). After giving the baccalaureate sermon at Baylor commencement on 1932 May 29, McKenzie was awarded an honorary doctor of divinity degree, an honor he also received from Howard Payne College in 1931.
McKenzie was intimately involved in Texas Baptist life. He served on the Board of Trustees for Baylor University and the Executive Board of the Baptist General Convention of Texas (BGCT), which he also served as chairman in the early 1930s. McKenzie's time on the Executive Board was eventful.
On 1933 March 7, the BGCT inaugurated the Texas Baptist Historical Committee. In the fall of 1933, the Executive Board elected its first women members. While on the Unification Committee of Texas Baptists in 1934, McKenzie contributed to unsuccessful reconciliation attempts between the BGCT and the Baptist Missionary Association, which since 1901 had been separated from the BGCT. McKenzie was instrumental in securing Baylor's financial strength during the 1930s, convincing the wealthy J.G. Hardin family--to whom he had been pastor at Burkburnett--to give $400,000 to Baylor. McKenzie also helped persuade the Hardins to make a gift of $100,000 to Baylor College for Women--a gift that led to the renaming of the institution as Mary Hardin-Baylor College in 1934. McKenzie also maintained warm relations with other Texas Baptist luminaries George W. Truett and Pat M. Neff, who was persuaded to take Baylor's presidency in part by McKenzie. A strong opponent of the sale of alcohol, McKenzie left the pastorate at University Baptist Church in 1943 to assume the leadership of the United Texas Drys--a position he held until his death. McKenzie died on 1952 June 13 in Dallas.
William R. White, the president of Baylor University, presided at his funeral. He is buried at Hillcrest Burial Park Cemetery in Waxahachie, Texas.
The Correspondence Series contains correspondence between Walter H. McKenzie and W.S. Allen, J.B. Cranfill, J.G. Hardin and Pat Neff, among others. The material deals with McKenzie's professional service to Baylor as well as personal sentiments.
The George W. Truett Materials series contains correspondence between Truett and Walter H. McKenzie and collected materials pertaining to Truett. Some of the material is of a personal nature, and much of it deals with the business of Baylor. The series also contains a Christmas and New Year letter from Truett for 1930 through 1931 and a newspaper clipping honoring Truett as one of the "builders of Texas." The Minutes and Proceedings series consists of documents from the various boards and committees on which Walter H. McKenzie served, including the Board of Trustees for Baylor University, Baylor College for Women, and the Executive Board of the Baptist General Convention of Texas (BGCT) and its Finance Committee. These documents illustrate the gratitude of Mary-Hardin Baylor College to McKenzie for his role in securing funds for the college from the Hardin family, and the recognition of the Executive Board of the BGCT to McKenzie for his three years of service as president. Also included is the resolution of Baylor College for Women in favor of changing its name to Mary Hardin-Baylor College in recognition of a gift from the Hardins.
The Literary Productions series contains a program of the 1932 Baylor commencement at which Walter H. McKenzie was awarded the doctor of divinity degree. Also included are newspaper clippings marking the Hardins' gift of $100,000 to Baylor College for Women, the funeral service for Mary Hardin, and an obituary for McKenzie printed in the Baptist Standard.
Christian Henry William Rueter was born 1909 October 22. He was the son of German-American parents Herman and Elise Rueter, who lived in a farmhouse located in Robinson, Texas. Christian was the youngest of nine children. In his youth, Rueter attended Robinson Academy. Rueter's desire to be an aviator was a life long passion. In order to join the Army Air Corps, it was a requirement to have a minimum of two years of college. As a result, he enrolled at Baylor University in Waco, Texas, from 1928 September 14 to 1930 June 6. While at Baylor, Rueter played the clarinet in the Baylor Cadet Band. After completing two years of schoolwork, he applied for aviation training at Randolph Field in San Antonio, Texas. In 1934, Rueter was accepted to aviation school and joined the 143rd Infantry of the Texas National Guard band section. He eventually transferred to the Air Corps training center in Randolph Field and in 1935 February was transferred to the Army Air Force. Rueter completed his Air Corps training school in San Antonio, Texas, in 1935. In 1936 February, he acquired his wings and graduated from the Air Corps Advanced Flying School at Kelly Field, becoming a flying cadet for a year. Rueter was eventually stationed at Langley Field, Virginia. He was promoted to Second Lieutenant on 1938 October 1. Amid Rueter's busy career, in 1939 June, he married Alexine Turner of Mt. Sterling, Kentucky. In 1940, Rueter was once again promoted and transferred to Tampa Army Base in Florida serving as a pilot and operations officer in the 43rd Bombing Squadron. Later on 1940 September 9, he was appointed First Lieutenant in the Army and late in 1941 October 1 was promoted to First Lieutenant in the Air Corps in the Regular Army. During World War II, Rueter's career continued to prosper. In 1942 April, he served as a Squadron Commander of B-24s for the North African campaign. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for leading an American bomber raid on Italy, and he also served with the Ninth Bomber Command in the Middle East and as a commander of the 97th Combat WIng in Europe. Rueter also served in the Balkans, the Mediterranean, and was later transferred to England. Throughout his military career, Rueter served in multiple notable missions. One of his most notable achievements as a bomber pilot was his role as the leader of the first United States raid on Italy. Rueter led successful raids on Tripoli and was the Deputy Commander of the raid on Naples Harbor and the port facilities. During World War II, he also piloted a plane that carried the Archbishop Francis Spellman to Cairo. After the completion of his service during World War II, Rueter in 1946 became a member of the Regular Army Examining Board in Selfridge Field Michigan. On 1948 July 1, he was appointed Lieutenant Colonel in the United States AIr Force. Rueter eventually served as the air force chief of staff at National Headquarters, Civil Air Patrol, Ellington Air Force Base. In 1949, he was assigned to the Military Air Transport Service (MATS) in Washington D.C. and was assigned to the strategy and mobilization branch at the headquarters. Late in 1949 August 4, Rueter completed training a group in the New York Air National Guard. On 1950 January 25, Rueter completed the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk Virginia. In 1954 July 29 he was awarded the Legion of Merit, Far East Command for his outstanding performance from 1952 November 24 to 1963 May 20. He was also awarded the Air Force Commendation medal for his service from 1959 October 5 to 1963 May 13. After serving in the Air Force for more than 29 years, Rueter retired 1963 May 29 in the Houston Texas area. In his retirement, he enjoyed a variety of recreational activities such as golfing and boating. Rueter and his wife lived in Seabrook, Texas until his death on 1977 January 1. He is buried in Robinson Cemetery.
The Correspondence series includes letters detailing Colonel Chris H.W. Rueter's military service, letters concerning specific awards he received, a telegram to his wife, and a letter from Pat M. Neff requesting Rueter's participation in updating his records at Baylor University.
The Literary Productions series consists of documents which include a biographical history of Christian Henry William Rueter written by his wife Alexine Rueter, a history of the Rueter family's church, Rueter's collected certificates from his military service, a portait painting, clippings detailing Rueter's career and a collection of postcards.
The Photographic Materials series includes a collection of photographs dated throughout Colonel Chris H.W. Rueter's life. The materials have been organized according to their subject matter.
The Maps series consists of National Geographic maps collected from throughout the world and a National Geographic Society Maps book in which the maps were originally stored. This map book was compiled by Chris Rueter for his father, so that he would be able to follow him during his travels.
The Artifacts series includes an unidentified flight squadron patch and a painting of Colonel Chris H.W. Reuter.
One of the most popular of United States patriotic songs, "America" or "My County Tis of Thee" was written by Samuel Francis Smith in the early 1800s. This collection contains one of six copies handwritten by Smith existing in the world today. Samuel Francis Smith was born on 1808 October 21 in Boston, Massachusetts. He attended public school in Boston, and then attended Harvard University, graduating in 1829. After Harvard, Smith attended Andover Theological Seminary (today Andover-Newton Theological School), and graduated from Andover in 1832. This is about the time he wrote "America." Smith then served as editor of the American Baptist Magazine, Baptist pastor in Maine, professor at Waterville College (today Colby College), and Baptist pastor in Massachusetts. Smith also served as secretary of the Baptist Missionary Union for 15 years. Smith wrote many hymns and poems, including "America," by far his most popular song. Unfortunately, there are several different versions of how Smith wrote the song, and they do not always agree. It seems he wrote the song quickly, within half an hour, after studying songs used in German public schools. The song was performed for the first time at a church on Park Street in Boston in 1831, for a celebration of American identity and freedom. Since then, it has been one of the most well-loved patriotic songs of the United States. In 1895, the last year of Smith's life, he presented a handwritten copy of his most famous song to his friend A.F. Beddoe of Texas. Beddoe donated his treasured copy of "America" to Baylor University in 1929.
This series contains one document, the lyrics to "America" written by Samuel Francis Smith.
Frank L. Wilcox, the son of Edward and Fannie Wilcox, was born on 1896 June 12 in Alva, Oklahoma. He graduated from Norman High School and went on to attend the University of Oklahoma where he studied engineering from 1913 to 1914. In 1915, Wilcox moved to Waco, Texas. After a few years of working at odd jobs, Wilcox chose accounting as the career he would pursue. In 1923, he earned his Certified Public Accountant (CPA) license, becoming the first Waco citizen to do so via examination. For eleven years (1929-1939), Wilcox served as the secretary, and eventually chairman, of the Texas State Board of Public Accountants. In the midst of his career pursuits, Wilcox married Hallie Maude Neff, the daughter of former Texas Governor and Baylor University President Pat Neff. The couple had no children, but were socially active throughout their forty-four year marriage.
Hallie’s personal papers also reside at The Texas Collection. For approximately fifty years, Wilcox continued his success as an accountant. From 1940 until his death, Wilcox was the Director of the Pioneer Savings Association. Upon the United States’ entry into World War II, Wilcox became an auditor for various ship building companies employed by the United States Navy. In 1949, Wilcox was elected President of the Texas Society of CPAs. A year later, he became the Vice President of the American Institute of CPAs. In addition to his professional accomplishments, Wilcox was also deeply involved in Waco community life. In the late 1930s, Wilcox was the first secretary-treasurer of the Hedonia Club, an organization which celebrated the young women of Waco and their “coming of age” through balls and pageants. From 1945 to 1946, Wilcox served as the Mayor of Waco. At other times in his life, Wilcox was the President of the Waco Symphony Society, President of the Farm and Ranch Club, and Director of the Waco Housing Authority. Wilcox passed away on 1977 July 30 at the age of 81. He was buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco.
This series contains personal and professional correspondence both to and from Frank Wilcox. The folder titles, which have been carried over from the collection's initial arrangement, reveal the topics of the correspondence. These include Wilcox's involvement with the city of Waco and the Hedonia Club, various newsletters that he wrote concerning the war effort, and personal letters. The series is in average condition.
This series contains financial documents pertaining to Frank Wilcox and his father-in-law Pat Neff. There are two prominent issues represented in this series: tax documents for Pat Neff's farms and materials from Wilcox's time as an auditor for the United States Navy. The materials are in average condition.
This series contains legal documents and correspondence pertaining to a lawsuit between Pat Neff and C.H. Wright that stretched through much of the 1940s. The materials are in average condition.
This series contains speeches made by Frank Wilcox as well as articles that he composed concerning the state of Waco's finances during his time as mayor (1945-1946). The materials are in average condition.
James Anderson Slover, the son of John and Rachel Slover, was born on 1824 September 15 in Jefferson County in East Tennessee. Slover spent the majority of his youth working at the family mill and later at the family farm. A section of Slover's autobiography focuses on stories about memorable experiences from his childhood, his experiences growing up on a farm, various religious events, and a variety of schooling adventures. After attending several schools, seminary, and later teaching and preaching, Slover married a former student, Harriet M. Ingram, on 1850 January 17. Shortly after their marriage, Slover and his wife moved to Washington County, Arkansas. During their time in Arkansas, Slover set up a school and participated in the local religious community. James and Harriet had five children, two sons and three daughters. In 1856, Slover got an appointment from the Southern Baptist Convention through the Domestic and Indian Mission Board to preach to the Cherokee Indians. After accepting this appointment, he moved to Tahlequah, capital of the Cherokee Nation, and began extremely successful operations as a missionary. After the completion of this missionary work, Slover and his wife moved back near his old home at Elm Springs and purchased forty acres. Slover's autobiography details various events and political tensions which occurred during the American Civil War. Religious issues pertaining to the Native American perception of slavery are discussed in the context of the Civil War. At some point, Harriet Slover passed away, leaving James to care for their five children. James Slover later married Josephine M. Rodgers, with whom he had an additional two children. Slover moved back to Arkansas to continue with his missionary work, but farther west than he had been before. However, he struggled to make a success in farming, and he eventually gave it up to preach and teach in the community. Towards the end of his life he traveled to see family, acquaintances, and friends. At the conclusion of his trip he moved to Oregon to live with one of his daughters. Slover died of pneumonia on 1913 November 13 and was buried in Ashland, Oregon, in Pioneer Cemetery.
This series contains a copy of the manuscript of the autobiography on James Anderson Slover.
Independence Baptist Church in Washington County, Texas, is one of the oldest Baptist churches in Texas. Eight charter members created the church on 1839 August 31, just four years after the village of Independence was founded. The church had close ties with Baylor University, which was founded in 1845 and until 1886 also located at Independence. Independence Baptist Church occasionally offered its sanctuary as a venue for Baylor commencement exercises and reserved seats for Baylor students in the church. A number of pastors of Independence Baptist, such as Rufus Burleson and William Carey Crane, also served as presidents of Baylor. Independence Baptist Church continues to function today as a gathering point and bearer of the Gospel for the Independence area.
This series contains a bound minute book describing the activities of Independence Baptist Church. The series is in excellent condition.
[Edcouch] First Baptist Church, originally named Los Indios Baptist Church, was organized during the summer of 1924 in Los Indios, Texas. In 1925 June, after church member Silas Rohr donated a plot of land to the church, the church moved to a new location and changed its name to Adams Tract Baptist Church. In 1927 February the church relocated to a lot in the newly formed and nearby townsite of Edcouch and again changed its name to First Baptist Church of Edcouch. In 1929 March, First Baptist Church of Edcouch licensed its first missionary, a young man named E. Paul Carroll. By 1963, First Baptist Church of Edcouch was one of two churches in the town.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains correspondence relating to church membership of First Baptist Church in Edcouch from 1941 to 1954. This series is in average condition.
This series contains documents pertaining to a five-year progress plan for First Baptist Church in Edcouch from the 1950s, a flyer advertising the fiftieth anniversary of the church, and other items. This series is in fair to good condition.
Gladys Allen was born 1897 June 2, in Crawford, Texas, to Sam L. Allen and Florence Morehead Allen. She attended Crawford public schools, Mary Hardin-Baylor College, and Baylor University (graduated 1918 June). Afterwards, she was the principal of the school at Delia, Texas, and later taught English in the Waco, Texas, school system. She taught in Waco until leaving to oversee business affairs for her father upon the death of her mother in 1934. Allen was a member of the Baylor Board of Trustees from 1941-1947, and 1951-1953. During her time as a trustee, she was highly involved in Baylor’s re-admittance to the American Association of University Women (AAUW). When Baylor lost its AAUW status due to perceived gender inequalities, Allen (a member of the AAUW) conducted research which was influential to reclaiming the accreditation. In addition to being a trustee, she was a member of Seventh and James Baptist Church and taught Sunday school classes there from 1928-1947. Allen was also active in the Waco Garden Club and the Waco Garden Council. She also for a decade as president of the Waco Young Women’s Christian Association. Allen died 1953 May 18 from cancer complications. She bequeathed assets to Seventh and James Baptist Church and Baylor University, including three endowed scholarships. Gladys Allen Hall at Baylor was named in her honor.
This series consists of letters to Gladys Allen while a trustee at Baylor University and president of the Waco Young Women’s Christian Association. Also included is a script for a 1946 KWTX radio broadcast involving Allen. This series is in good condition.
This series consists chiefly of correspondence regarding Gladys Allen’s ancestry. Letters from family members and researchers are included in addition to Allen’s completed applications for the National Society for Daughters of the American Revolution, copies of John Allen’s will (recorded 1823, issued 1941), funeral proceedings for Sam Allen (1945), clippings of newspaper obituaries and a report titled “The Name and Family of Allen or Allan” prepared by the Media Research Bureau (issued in 1936). Personal notes are included on notecards and written on some of the items. This series is in average condition.
This series contains materials related to Baylor University’s loss of American Association of University Women accreditation, the bulk of which are responses to a 1944 survey of various institutions of higher education regarding gender equality and operational information. Also included are materials related to a 1947 Baylor University improvement program proposed by the current Baylor president Pat M. Neff. This series is in good condition.
This series consists of an assortment of items including personal notes (possibly genealogical related information), newspaper clippings, ephemera and two notebooks belonging to A. L. Allen chronicling agricultural and climate conditions in central Texas from 1882-1893. This series is in average condition.
This series contains a photograph of the Baylor University Board of Trustees and unidentified photographs found within the materials. This series is in average condition.
The Rufus C. Burleson Society, also known as the “R.C.B.’s”, was one of two literary societies open to women at Baylor during the late 1800s and early 1900s. It was the last formed of the four dominant literary societies at Baylor at the time, which included the Philomathesian Literary Society, Erisophian Literary Society, and Calliopean Literary Society. Founded in October 1887 (almost twenty years after the last established literary society, the Calliopean Literary Society), the group faced initial adversity from the previously established societies and named itself after the then current Baylor president who supported the growing group. Their motto, “Step By Step,” reflects the nature of the gradual acceptance of the organization. Literary societies at Baylor reached their height of popularity around 1900 and offered members the opportunity to socialize outside of the academic setting while providing a unique group identity. Activities were primarily concerned with academic development; oratory skills were especially important. Societies encouraged personal development, held meetings, hosted events, and allowed access to private libraries. Joint meetings and debates were popular among the societies and contributed to the rivalry between them. Eventually, the Rufus C. Burleson Society formed an alliance with the Erisophian Literary Society after the Philomathesian Literary Society and Calliopean Literary Society became brother-sister organizations. As popular interest in debate declined and membership dwindled in the 1920s, the Rufus C. Burleson Society merged with the Erisophian Literary Society, and the group retained the Erisophian name. The group held its last meeting in 1925 and after a brief attempt to revive the society in 1926, ceased to exist.
This series contains two letters regarding the Rufus C. Burleson Society. This series is in fair condition.
This series contains a journal of minutes and operational information. The series is in poor condition.
This series includes the constitution and by-laws and event materials of the Rufus C. Burleson Society. The series is in fair condition.
Born in Waco, Texas, on 1871 October 28 to Ernest Moore and Mary Costler, William E. Moore worked in Waco as a clerk for William T. Wallace in the 1880s, while living with his maternal grandparents. By the end of the century Moore had become an assistant undertaker for Fall & Puckett, a local funeral home in Waco. Later in life he became a funeral director. On 1900 December 27, Moore married Myrtle Winn. They had one son, Walter Edwin Moore. Tragically, Myrtle died shortly after Walter was born. William lived about another forty-four years and eventually died on 1946 November 11 from heart complications at the age of seventy five. He was buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco.
This series contains more than 100 letters written to William E. Moore between 1902 and 1918. Most of the letters were written by Moore's mother-in-law, Ella J. Winn. This series is in average condition.
This is the largest series in the collection and contains more than 400 postcards, some of which are addressed to William E. Moore. This series is in average condition.
This series contains financial documents dealing with property taxes and other financial issues. The series is in average condition.
This series contains a photograph of Walter Edwin Moore, the son of William E. Moore. At the time the photograph was taken, Walter was 14 months old. The item is in good condition.
The Baylor University Committee on AIDS was formed on 1988 April 21 under the leadership of Dr. William Hillis, though it had operated for about seven months prior to the name change as Baylor's Task Force on AIDS. Both the committee and the task force were led by Dr. Hillis, Baylor’s executive vice president for administrative affairs. Created in summer 1987 and having its first meeting 1987 September 22, the Task Force was comprised of ten faculty, staff, and community leaders appointed by Dr. Hillis. Dan McGee, Baylor religion professor, chaired the Task Force, and was succeeded by Sheila Hyde, dean of student life activities. On 1988 March 18, the Board of Trustees approved a seven-point “Baylor University Statement on AIDS” which was composed by the Task Force. The last point of the statement recommended the formation of a “standing committee” to continue the task of researching, developing, and implementing the University’s response to the growing AIDS crisis. The work of the Committee on AIDS was primarily educational. Chaired by Baylor University law professor Michael Morrison and comprised of over a dozen faculty, staff, and students, the Committee was also involved in advising Baylor on its policies regarding legal and health issues of potential AIDS-infected students and employees. Committee members also collected the most recent literature on the topic and attended various conferences on AIDS. On 1988 November 18, the Committee brought Dr. Richard Keeling, leading authority on HIV/AIDS and professor of medicine at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville, to the Baylor campus to speak at an open forum on AIDS. It is unknown whether the committee still exists or if its function has been absorbed into a broader Health committee's responsibilities.
The Committee Documents series contains productions of the committee and its members. It includes drafts of the Baylor AIDS policy, a proposed student survey, list of committee members, and some correspondence of committee members.
The Research Materials series contains items collected by committee members--chiefly Michael Morrison of the Baylor Law School--in the course of its work to provide guidance and education to Baylor University on the AIDS issue. The series includes such items as academic papers, Planned Parenthood pamphlets, copies of state and federal legislation, popular magazine articles, and resource catalogues. Some notes, correspondence and memoranda of committee members is also retained in this series.
The Erisophian Literary Society was the second literary society formed in Independence, Texas, at Baylor University. Originally established as the Caliopean Society on 1853 March 15, the name was changed to the Erisophian Literary Society several months later on October 13. Their motto was “utile dulci” and the group was nicknamed “Sophies” by the students. At the time, the two literary societies (Philomathesian and Erisophian) were the only faculty-approved extracurricular options available to students at the university. These male societies were primarily focused on debating skills but were also concerned with other subjects such as public speaking and composition. The society held meetings and hosted events featuring guest speakers. In 1857, the Erisophian Literary Society began producing the Erisophian Literary Journal. The late 1800s saw the rise of four dominant literary societies at Baylor: two male societies (Philomathesian and Erisophian) and two female societies (Calliopean and Rufus C. Burleson). As the societies grew in popularity, the competition for new members increased tensions. At one point, a university rule had to be created to prohibit new students from joining a society until one week after arrival. Eventually the Philomathesian Literary Society united with the Calliopean Literary Society, which resulted in a reactionary affiliation between the Erisophian Literary Society and Rufus C. Burleson Literary Society. The societies organized public events that featured debates, speeches, readings, musical recitals, theater productions, and other entertainment. Events presented by the societies were often the major social activities at the university. The popularity of the literary societies reached a peak during the early 1900s. Intercollegiate debating was quite popular at the time and most students at Baylor University were members of a literary society. In addition to providing a sense of group identity, the societies provided members other incentives such as private libraries. The materials in the private libraries were highly desired as the university library only maintained holdings related to coursework. The literary societies often competed against one another in heated debates about current events and campus affairs. As general interest in debate declined in the 1920s, membership in literary societies dwindled. Eventually, all of the societies donated their private libraries to the university library. As sports and other social organizations rose in popularity, the literary societies had trouble recruiting new members. The Erisophian Literary Society held its final meeting in 1932 and was the last of the four literary societies to operate at Baylor University.
This series contains the materials used in everyday operations of the organization. The materials date from the original establishment of the Caliopean Society in 1853, through the name change to the Erisophian Literary Society, their transfer to Waco, and until the last decade of the society’s existence. Included are foundational documents, meeting minutes, meeting attendance, membership documents, internal communication, private library records, financial records, and legal documents. Due to the methods used by the society to record information, some books contain multiple material types. For example, foundational documents were typically written at the beginning of a book and followed by meeting minutes. Some of the books served a dual purpose and functioned as a journal of minutes and “roll books,” which contain attendance at meetings, lists of officers, and lists of honorary members. The register’s book is listing of all members of the organization over a 61 year period. Unlike the roll books, it includes some minor biographical information related to members such as hometowns. Record books are a collection of assorted pledge materials, internal communication, financial records, correspondence, and minutes. Due to their fragile condition, the record books were disassembled to enhance preservation and increase access to those materials. The Erisophian Literary Society’s lending library was an important function of the organization, and they kept library catalogs to document what they owned. Library records recorded the distribution of materials among members. Also included in this series is the organization’s charter from the State of Texas. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains volumes of the Erisophian Literary Journal, several speeches and essays written by members are included. Programs provide insight regarding the debate topics and entertainment at the events hosted by the society and in conjunction with the Rufus C. Burleson Literary Society. Many of the pamphlets provide a brief history of the organization and include the society’s constitution and by-laws. The pamphlets were primarily made for distribution among potential members of the society. Also included in the series are various clippings and ephemera such as business cards, stationary, checks, and blank forms. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains correspondence to and from university faculty, university departments, the Rufus C. Burleson Society, debate organizers, prospective speakers, and former members. Some pieces of correspondence contain handwritten notes. This series is in average condition.
The Calliopean Literary Society, the first female literary society at Baylor, was formed in 1867 while the university was located in Independence, Texas. The Calliopeans, or “Callies,” used “vincet quae se vincet” as their motto, a Latin phrase meaning “she conquers who conquers herself,” and sported white and gold as their colors. In order to foster the growth of the society and its individual members, the Callies developed a leadership structure in which the members held leadership positions for short periods of time, allowing most of its members to gain leadership experience. The creation of the Callies was preceded by two male literary societies, the Philomathesian Literary Society and the Erisophian Literary Society, organized in 1851 and 1853, respectively. A second female literary society, the Rufus C. Burleson Society, was started in 1888.
Rivalries developed between the literary societies and eventually the Philomathesians and the Callies formed an alliance, while the Erisophians and Rufus C. Burleson Society also formed an alliance. At one point, N. D. Naman, motivated by the debates and competitions between the Philomathesians and the Erisophians, organized an annual debate between the Callies and the Rufus C. Burleson Society. The winner received a wristwatch. Each of the societies maintained libraries which they allowed their organization’s members to use. The library of the Callies contained a few hundred books, mostly consisting of works of fiction. By 1903, the four literary societies had donated their library collections to the Baylor library in exchange for scholarship monies. The popularity and reputation of the Callies and the other literary societies at Baylor waned in the 1920s as other student organizations formed, such as athletics and Greek organizations. The records of the Calliopean Literary Society provide insights into the happenings of the organization in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.
This series contains an undated letter from Mrs. W. H. Jenkins, one of the original organizers of the society, addressed to the ladies of the Calliopean Literary Society. This series is in average condition.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains a minute book with meeting minutes from 1888 to 1900, membership rolls from 1885 to 1896, library records from 1891 to 1901, and an undated typescript of the society’s constitution and bylaws. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains a Calliopean ribbon and a letter explaining what the ribbon was used for, who donated it to the collection, and when. This series is in poor condition.
Lily McIlroy Russell was born in Kerrville, Texas, on 1887 January 24. Her father, Rev. Chester A. McIlroy, moved the family to New Mexico after the death of his spouse. While in New Mexico, the family met the Claypool family. When Chester McIlroy accepted a position in Oklahoma, the Claypools took in the McIlroy children. After accepting positions at Baylor University, the blended family moved to Waco, Texas. Eventually, Russell attended Baylor and graduated in 1911. After graduation, she taught English at Baylor and, in 1917, was married. Although she later divorced her husband (date unknown), she retained the last name Russell. In 1924, she moved to Portland, Oregon, and later returned to Baylor in 1926 to accept the position of assistant to Irene Marschall, Dean of Women. When Marschall left the university in 1931, Russell was offered the position, which she would occupy for the next nine years. As Dean of Women, Russell was involved in multiple aspects of female student life at Baylor. She was a member of the Woman’s Missionary Union and coordinated some of the organization’s outreach efforts at Baylor such as the Margaret Fund and special events.
Special events included District Meetings and "houseparties," multiple day affairs for area members of the Young Women’s Auxiliary and Girl’s Auxiliary. Russell was a major participant in event and entertainment planning at Baylor, an area she remained engaged in throughout her tenure. In 1940, Baylor President Pat M. Neff named Russell the Director of Public Relations and chairperson of the Baylor Centennial Committee. After Baylor’s Centennial celebration in 1945, she continued as Public Relations director until accepting the position of Dean of the Union Building in 1948. Due to her vast knowledge and collection of information about Baylor’s history, Russell accepted her last position as Baylor’s official University Historian in 1950. Russell was a well-known person on the Baylor campus, and the students dedicated the 1955 edition of the Baylor annual, The Round-Up, to her. During the 1950s, she began to write a complete history of Baylor from its beginnings in Independence, Texas. However, Russell would not be able to complete the project. In 1958, she became ill and began working from home with the assistance of two student secretaries. Later that year, on 1958 August 21, Lily Russell passed away.
This series consists chiefly of correspondence regarding recipients of the Margaret Fund. The Margaret Fund was a scholarship administered through the Woman’s Missionary Union for children of foreign missionaries. Russell was an active participant in the Woman’s Missionary Union and an intermediary between donors and Margaret Fund students. The series contains detailed information about fund recipients, lists of eligible students, lists of missionaries, lists of foreign students, Baptist publications, and some photographs.
This series chronicles Baylor University’s involvement and perception within the Baptist denomination and related organizations. The series spans from Lily Russell’s role as Acting Dean of Women in 1931 through her remaining years at Baylor in various roles. Baylor and Russell’s involvement with the Woman’s Missionary Union and the Southern Baptist Convention is represented within the series. Materials related to specific annual meetings of the Southern Baptist Convention are present. Also included is documentation regarding “Houseparties” that were multiple day affairs for area members of the Young Women’s Auxiliary and Girl’s Auxiliary. Members of those organizations were invited to Baylor for a multiple day program that included classes, guest speakers, and other events. Other topics within the series include a Texas Baptist Training Union Convention and Baptist publications. The series includes newspaper clippings, article drafts, correspondence, event programs, photographs, invitations, reports, schedules, radio scripts, and notes. Event related materials typically include planning materials, correspondence with attendees, and items from events.
This series contains Lily Russell’s research on the history of women in higher education and current events of the day that featured women. The series is chiefly correspondence with various educational and government institutions in addition to newspaper clippings highlighting women or women’s groups in newspaper articles. The bulk of the newspaper articles are related to the role of women in society, with an emphasis on Baylor connections. Also included are various publications and advertisements for publications regarding the status of women in education and society.
Originally a single folder titled “Accounting Department**Truett Grant, Cashier” this series contains correspondence between Lily Russell and Truett Grant (Baylor University’s cashier) regarding finances. Correspondence includes authorization for expenses, dormitory billing, student accounts, etc. Also included is an index of correspondence and notes about expenses and reimbursement.
This series contains materials related to a convocation that presented the then current United States Vice President, John Nance Gardner, and his wife, Mariette "Ettie" Rheiner Garner, with honorary degrees from Baylor University. Items include event planning materials, photographs of the event, article drafts, newspapers, the event program, and an event ticket.
Originally a folder titled simply “Fellowship”, this series consists of material predominantly related to a group of female students receiving assistance that Lily Russell referred to as “Fellowship Girls.” This series is similar to that of the Margaret Fund Students series and contains some materials regarding Margaret Fund students. The bulk of the series consists of lists of students and correspondence about their status.
Field Day was a program sponsored by the Woman’s Missionary Union for high school seniors within the surrounding counties. Also known as the “District Meet” or “At Home,” the event invited students to spend the day at Baylor University. Attendees would be greeted with a reception, taken on guided tours of campus by Baylor students, allowed to visit various university departments, and given tickets to events. Lily Russell assisted in coordinating the event and communicated with educators and student tour guides. Materials include correspondence, lists of high school seniors from surrounding counties (some with contact information), attendance information, lists of student tour guides, Baylor class schedules, directions for tour guides, personal notes, and event tickets. The folders containing “Field Day 1938” materials also contained materials for all previous years of the event (1933-1937).
This series consists of books and pamphlets related to dormitories that were found within the Field Day materials. The pamphlets are most likely those given to incoming female occupants to Baylor’s dormitories. They outline the rules of the dormitory and describe issues related to life on campus. Handbooks are related to managing students and administrative functions of residence halls.
Originally titled "Programs", this series contains materials Lily Russell used in presenting events and productions. Upon Russell’s return to Baylor in 1926, she became involved in campus entertainment. Russell organized theatrical productions which often included original compositions. The series includes song lyrics, original sheet music, scripts (often with notes or alterations), costume patterns, presentation notes, correspondence, invitations, drafts of event programs, actual event programs, photographs, advertisements for guest speakers and entertainers, decorative items, and items used as inspiration or reference. A folder titled “Programs” was renamed “Program Materials” and contains event programs, event planning materials, and notes about productions. The series is largely undated and productions could have had repeated performances. Somewhat related materials found within the series are a number of greeting cards sent to Russell and a 1955 datebook which has been isolated in a separate folder.
This series is comprised of album pages used to create Baylor University’s annual, (please see attached images for examples). Most photographs are small portraits that were trimmed and pasted onto sheets of paper to create an aesthetic arrangement. To preserve materials and enhance access, photographs pasted onto deteriorating paper were removed. Pages of photographs that could be grouped together, but did not have any other information about the arrangement, are labeled "Annual Pages." "Uncut portraits" are portraits that were not trimmed or pasted into arrangements. Many include an identification card that provides information about the individual. In addition to portraits, some photographs depict student life and are identified as simply "photographs." In rare instances, alternate selections are included throughout the series. Some photographs are damaged, but the series is in overall average condition.
This series contains Lily Russell’s datebooks during her time as Assistant Dean of Women, Acting Dean of Women and Dean of Women. In these books Russell logged her daily activities and appointments.
This series consolidated folders labeled “Forms” and “Old Form Letters.” All folders contained an assortment of blank forms, templates for letters, and letters that were written and kept as prototypes for future use. The blank forms include applications, surveys, and other requests for information. Letter templates often contain the bulk of text needed to produce a letter with space provided to include personalization. Copies of letters sent to various people (students, parents, educators, etc.) were retained for future reference and often have handwritten annotations and instructions regarding formatting and situation. The letters provide insight to the scope of Lily Russell’s responsibilities as Dean of Women. Subjects discussed in the letters include admissions, student employment, dormitory housing, and event coordination. The series includes items written by Russell’s predecessor as Dean of Women, Irene Marschall, and successor, Sadie T. Crawley. Also, seemingly unrelated items such as residence lists for dormitories from 1941-1943 were present. The series is in poor condition and many documents have been damaged by moisture.
This series chronicles Lily Russell’s involvement with the dormitories at Baylor University. As Dean of Women, Russell was highly involved in female student placement and staffing of the dormitories. The Management subseries consolidated Russell’s documentation of her involvement with Baylor’s dormitories. Materials include those related to dormitory management (documentation and correspondence regarding occupancy, staff, reports, and announcements), and maintenance issues (itemized damages, purchase lists, and proposed projects). Two deviations from the original arrangement are present in the Management subseries. The Instructions folder consolidated two folders that contained directions for staff. Some drafts are included in addition to personalized copies. The Summer School folder was created from items Russell identified as “Summer School.” These materials are related to dormitory occupancy in the summer months. Near the end of her tenure as Dean of Women, Russell was involved with the completion of Catherine Alexander Dormitory. The Catherine Alexander Dormitory subseries were created from a file transferred from the BU Records: Dean of the Union Building (Lily Russell) collection. The beginning of the transferred material was mostly correspondence about repairs and receipts for multiple dormitories, and those items have been separated. The remainder of the series is primarily comprised of Russell’s correspondence with vendors regarding the design and furnishing of Catherine Alexander Hall. Included are estimates, receipts and lists of vendors. During this time, Russell was also ordering items for Burleson Hall, so a few documents refer to both dormitories. The series is in poor condition, and several items in the series have been damaged by moisture.
This series contains materials collected by Lily Russell during her time as Dean of Women and contains materials related to the education of women.
Catherine Bennett was born on 1879 January 12 to Minter and Henrietta Bennett. She married Lewis W. Alexander on 1903 June 12 in Daviess, Kentucky. The Alexanders soon moved to San Antonio, Texas, where Lewis Alexander owned the Coca Cola Bottling Co.. The two were active members of their church and participated in many short-term missions trips abroad. Through those trips, Catherine developed relationships with missionaries from all over the globe. The majority of these papers are photographs and books related to Catherine’s missionary network. Unfortunately, the family’s next 30 years would be marked by a series of tragedies. The Alexanders lost their second son, Lewis W. Alexander Jr., at only six months of age in 1920. During a missions trip to Kenya on 1935 February 19, Lewis W. Alexander Sr. died and was buried in Nairobi. Only four years later, in 1939, Catherine’s other son, James Quint Alexander, died at the age of 35. After her husband passed away, Catherine moved to Waco, Texas, where she donated a great deal of her fortune to Baylor University. She was the largest benefactor to building Catherine Alexander Hall, a new Baylor dormitory for women. The dormitory was dedicated on 1941 January 31, and included an apartment for Catherine, who would live in the hall until her death on 1968 February 4. Catherine’s presence in the hall, her open door policy for the students, and her leadership of many on-campus missions groups led to her being christened “Mother" Alexander by many of her students.
This series consists of a letter to Catherine Alexander from Baylor President and Governor Pat Neff, and numerous photo greeting cards sent by missionaries around the world.
This series contains numerous printed materials related to Catherine’s involvement with missions work and the Southern Baptist Convention. It also includes a guest book signed by visitors to her apartment in Catherine Alexander Hall at Baylor.
This series contains a travelers guide to Africa and multiple Bibles in various languages. This series is in average to good condition.
This series contains photographs collected by Catherine Alexander, primarily relating to her missions work. Many of the photos are of other foreign missionaries and their families.
Carl Lovelace was born in Jefferson City, Missouri on1876 February 6, to Sarah Harrison and Major Thomas Jefferson Lovelace. The family settled in Waco in 1889, and Carl attended Baylor University. During his time at Baylor, Carl was part of the Erisophian Literary Society, and editor-in-chief of the Baylor Literary. In addition, Carl was one of the original students to kidnap W.C. Brann and bring him to the Baylor campus in 1897, but Lovelace had no part of the violent confrontation that eventually ended Brann’s life. At the start of the Spanish-American War, Lovelace graduated from Baylor early in order to join Teddy Roosevelt’s Rough Riders military unit. As a member of the First Volunteer Calvary, Troop D, he was the only known Baylor student to participate in combat during that war. He took part in the Battle of Kettle Hill, and witnessed the charge up San Juan Hill, an experience that was foundational to his later identity and political opinions. After returning from the war, Carl went to Vanderbilt Medical School from 1899-1900, and eventually earned his MD from Columbian University (now George Washington University) in 1902. Soon thereafter, Carl Lovelace embarked on another adventure, this time in South America. He became the chief surgeon of the Madeira-Mamoré Railroad construction project in Bolivia. That project would become notorious for more than 1,000 casualties, but Lovelace was well-respected for fighting the rampant contagious diseases and preventing even more deaths. Back in the United States, Carl married Lucille Hill in 1915 and the two had three sons. He served as a Major in the Army Medical Corps during World War I, and eventually became a family doctor and the Medical Director for Amicable Life Insurance Company in Waco from 1919 until close to his death. He also remained an active member of the Baylor community, serving as the Baylor Alumni Association President in 1915. Carl Lovelace died on 1944 September 14, while two of his sons were fighting in World War II and his third son was a student at Baylor University.
This series consists of personal correspondence and correspondence related to Baylor, the Madeira-Mamoré Association, the Brazil Railroad, and Dr. Lovelace's medical career. This series is in average to good condition.
This series contains legal documents pertaining to Carl Lovelace. This series is in good condition.
This series contains financial receipts and other financial materials relating to Carl Lovelace. This series is in average condition.
This series contains a wide variety of literary productions collected and produced by Carl Lovelace. They include documents pertaining to his medical career, his participation in the Waco Philosophers Club, and many other aspects of his life. This series is in good condition.
This series contains photographs of Carl Lovelace and his family. It also contains photographs identified simply as "American Hospital" that appear to depict his work with the Madeira-Mamoré Association in South America. This series is in good condition.
John Hill Luther (1824-1903) was born in Rhode Island. He was a graduate of Brown University and Newton Theological Seminary. At a young age he had longed to be a missionary, but as an adult he became pastor in Beaufort County, South Carolina. In addition to being a pastor, Luther became a tutor in the home of Benjamin Jaudon of Robertville. One of the Jaudon children, Anne, later became his wife. John and Anne were married in 1854 August. After a brief time as pastor of several churches in South Carolina, John and Anne moved to Kansas City where John opened a school for girls, the “Young Ladies Seminary.” He served as the president of the Seminary from 1858-1861, and also pastored several churches in Missouri. In 1865 Luther established a Baptist paper, which he called the Central Baptist, which was recognized by the Baptist General Association as the official Missouri Baptist state paper. In 1871, William Jewel College conferred on John Hill the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity, recognizing him as a “foremost educator.” During the Civil War and Reconstruction the family moved often but eventually felt the need to move to a more permanent location. Family members encouraged them to move to Galveston, Texas, where Luther became pastor of the 2nd Baptist Church for a year. In 1878, Dr. Luther accepted the presidency of Baylor Female College at Independence, TX. The Luthers had six children, three of whom died in infancy, and a son died during in his teenage years. The two surviving children were both daughtersDLAnne, born in 1859, and Zollie, in 1865. In 1886, Baylor University moved the male students to Waco. Dr. and Mrs. Luther were asked to move Baylor Female College to Belton, where he continued as President until 1891. Baylor Female College eventually became the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor (UMHB). Zollie Luther, the Luther’s youngest daughter, married William Goodrich Jones, who was a banker in Temple, Texas.
They had three children, Luther, Riette, and Doris Goodrich Jones. Anne Luther, the Luther’s eldest daughter, served as dean of the Baylor Female College during her father’s presidency. Anne also taught mathematics and represented the institution at State Baptist Conventions. It was during one of these conventions, in Calvert, Texas, that she met William Buck Bagby, who, like Anne, felt a call to foreign missions. William was born in 1855 in Coryell County, Texas. His family moved to Waco, Texas, when he was eight years old. William became a Christian while listening to a sermon from Dr. Rufus Burleson. He attended Waco University as the first theology student in the newly established theology department. William Buck Bagby and Anne Luther married in 1881. In 1881, William and Anne were appointed by the Foreign Mission Board (FMB) of Richmond, Virginia, and left for the mission field, becoming the first permanent Baptist missionaries in Brazil, South America. Their work in Brazil constituted one of the longest tenures of any couple in Southern Baptist Missions. The Bagbys founded a church in Bahía in 1882, the first Brazilian Baptist Church, and another in Rio de Janeiro in 1884. The churches were successful, and several more were founded in the larger cities of Brazil. The churches were led by Brazilian pastors, trained by the Bagbys and other Baptist missionaries. Rio de Janeiro became the center for Baptist work in southern Brazil. In 1901, having worked in Bahía and Rio de Janeiro for several years, the Bagbys moved to São Paulo, where Anne was primarily responsible for the establishment of a school, Colégio Batista Brasileiro, that included a boarding school for girls. William continued to evangelize and organize churches throughout the southern part of Brazil. William and Anne had nine children, two of which died as infants. In 1912, their son Willson drowned while trying to save a friend. Another son, Oliver, moved to California after initiating studies at the University of Texas Medical School in Galveston, Texas. The eldest Bagby child, Ermine (1881-1939), married Sidney Sowell, of Fluvanna County, Virginia. They served together as Baptist missionaries and educators in Argentina. They had four children: Maurice, Ben, Anne and John David. Anne Sowell Margrett, a University of Mary Hardin-Baylor graduate, was appointed a missionary by the FMB and became director of the Baptist Training School for women in Rosario, Argentina. Later, this Training School was moved to Buenos Aires where it became part of the Seminario Internacional Teológico Bautista. The other four Bagby children served as missionaries in Brazil DLTaylor Crawford Bagby (1885-1954), Alice (1896-1973), Helen Edna (1900-1993), and Albert Ian (1902-1988). Taylor Crawford (known as T.C.) married Frances Adams of Virginia, and both served as missionaries in Brazil. T.C. was especially active in organizing and pastoring Baptist churches in southern Brazil. They had seven children: Samuel, Kathleen, Luther, William, Priscilla, Jimmy, and Anne. Samuel became a pastor and Anne has served as missionary and educator in South America and Texas. Alice Bagby Smith graduated from Baylor College in Belton (now the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor), and Southwestern Seminary Training School. She was appointed by the Foreign Mission Board as a missionary to Brazil to work in the school in São Paulo. She met Harley Smith, a Baylor University and Southwestern Seminary graduate, and they married in 1922 in Waco, Texas. The Smiths went to Porto Alegre in Rio Grande do Sul in Southern Brazil to work in the mission field there. The Smiths founded the Colégio Batista Americano Brazileiro in 1926 in Porto Alegre, to prepare students to be Christian leaders and witnesses. Harley was also the pastor of the Igreja Batista Central, a church that he and Alice helped to organize in Porto Alegre. In 1945 Harley and Alice resigned from the mission board to become independent missionaries, but they remained in the same area and continued with much of the same work. Harley and Alice moved to Waco in their last years, where Alice died in 1973, and Harley passed away in 1976. The Smiths had three children: Helen Frances (1924-), Paul Bagby (1928-), and Thelma Lou (1936-). Helen Frances, eldest daughter of Alice Bagby and Harley Smith, graduated from Mary Hardin-Baylor in 1946.
In 1947, Dr. Gordon Singleton, president of UMHB, performed the marriage ceremony for Helen Frances and Jimmye Hillman in 1947. Dr. Hillman spent his career as a distinguished international agricultural economist at the University of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona. They have three children: Brent, Brenda, and Brad. Paul Bagby Smith married Gloria Painter in 1950 and had three children, Jerry Paul, Jena Lesa, and Jane Noel. After Paul and Gloria divorced in 1956, Paul remarried in 1958, to Alba Ferrer of Venezuela. They also had three children: Patricia, Paul Harley, and Veronica. Paul was in the oil business, which took them to various places around the world, including Chile, Ecuador, and Venezuela. Paul and Alba now live in Miami, Florida. Thelma Lou graduated from Baylor University and the University of Texas. In 1959 she married William F. Cooper, graduate of Baylor University, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary and Indiana University. Bill is the son of William Lowrey and Catherine Cooper, missionaries to Argentina. William Lowrey was the president of the Seminario Internacional Teologico Bautista in Buenos Aires. Catherine served as music instructor and choir director at the Seminario. They served in Argentina for 35 years. In 1965, William and Thelma moved to Waco, where William was on the faculty of the Philosophy Dept. of Baylor University and was Dean of the College of Arts and Science for 9 years. Thelma was on the piano and piano pedagogy faculty of the School of Music of Baylor University. In 2006, she was inducted into the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor Hall of Fame as a distinguished musician. They have three children, Richard, Jonathan, and Dorisanne. Helen Bagby, a graduate of Baylor College in Belton was appointed as a missionary to Brazil and was active in the school in São Paulo. She later became a teacher and principal of the school in Porto Alegre. In 1939, she married William Coleman Harrison from Kentucky. Harrison was appointed as missionary to Brazil and worked in various parts of Brazil as a pastor, professor, school principle, and mission treasurer. After he and Helen were married, they moved to the state of Pernambuco to work in the Baptist Seminary in Recife, the capital of the state. They had two children, William Bagby and Alice Ann, and adopted a third, Helga. William Bagby worked for the United States government, while Alice Ann has been an educator in Texas and Colorado. Albert Ian, the Bagby’s youngest child, graduated from Baylor University and Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky. He married Thelma Frith, who had worked as an independent missionary with the Smiths in Porto Alegre. They were appointed by the FMB as missionaries to Brazil, where they settled in Porto Alegre, as teachers and administrators in the Colégio Batista Americano Brazileiro. Albert also pastored several churches. They had three sons: Albert Jr., Daniel (both Baylor graduates) and Ronald. Albert Jr. had a distinguished career as professor of Spanish and Portuguese at the University of Texas at El Paso. Daniel served as pastor in Indiana and in Waco, Texas, at Seventh and James Baptist Church, before accepting a professorship in Pastoral Care at the Baptist Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. Ronald has been an educator in Gadsden, Alabama. William Buck Bagby died in 1939 in Porto Alegre, Brazil. His wife Anne Luther died in Recife in 1942 December. By 1939, when William Buck Bagby died, Brazil had 778 churches with 68,731 members. For over 50 years, the family had prepared the way for continued growth of the Baptist churches and schools in Brazil and Argentina.
This series contains four boxes of materials about the Luther family, including correspondence, literary productions, and legal documents. The bulk of the materials in this series focus on John Hill Luther and Anne Jaudon Luther as well as their daughters, Anne Luther Bagby and Zollie Luther Jones. Main themes in the series include John Hill Luther's writings such as speeches and essays, and the Luther family's involvement with Baylor Female College.
This series contains 17 boxes of correspondence and literary productions created by or about the Bagby family. Prominent themes in this series include education and Bagby family history. Materials about the Bagby family's mission work and family heritage are represented in the various manuscripts of Bagbys of Brazil and other writings about the Bagby family legacy.
The Smith Papers consist of 62 boxes of materials including correspondence, literary productions, financial documents, and legal documents. The bulk of the material in this series is related to Harley Smith and Alice Bagby Smith.
This series contains 19 boxes of published and unpublished literary productions including subseries about schools, churches, periodicals, biographical materials, and general productions. The materials in this series were not included in the literary productions subseries of other series because the items did not distinctly relate to only one family represented in the collection. The first two subseries, schools and churches, both include material about institutions in the United States that members of the Luther-Bagby families visited or attended, as well as schools and churches in Brazil that the families were instrumental in founding as part of their mission work.
The photographs in this series are arranged by family when possible, and then by topic. The main themes throughout the photographs include schools, churches, friends and associates, and travel. There are postcards in the travel subseries. The arrangement of many of the family photographs was done using notes from donors and other family members to determine who is pictured.
The scrapbooks in this series include personal scrapbooks that were assembled by family members as well as subject file scrapbooks and topical scrapbooks. The series includes four document boxes and three oversized boxes.
Philip Dale Browne, or P.D. Browne, longtime educator in Central Texas, taught and supervised schools in Teague, Crystal City, Fairfield, and Baylor University. His other interests included American Civil War history, and he wrote extensively on several units from Freestone County. Much of his work on local Civil War history helped to preserve information that might otherwise have been lost through time. Though he was named Philip Dale Browne, Philip preferred P.D. Browne as his name in everyday usage and formal writings, such as essays. His Texas educational career began in 1921-1922 as the principal of Teague High School in Freestone County. As of 1930, Browne was thirty years old, married, had one daughter, and lived in Freestone County. Through 1943 P.D. Browne taught and administered high schools in Crystal City and Fairfield, as well as attending the University of Texas for a year. In 1943-1944 Browne was a mathematics teacher at Baylor, but left to accept a position as education director and financial officer at 7th and James Baptist Church in Waco. After seven years teaching Bible classes and overseeing the monetary affairs of the church, Browne moved back to Baylor and taught mathematics and religion for the next twenty years. Upon his retirement in 1971, Browne accepted the directorship of the Baylor Retired Professor’s program for another nine years. Browne finally retired for good in 1982 after over fifty years of educational service to Central Texas. In addition to his interests in mathematics and religion, Browne was also interested in local history. For a brief time Browne was the president of the Baylor Historical Society, but preferred the roles scholar and researcher. He was quite interested in the American Civil War, and especially in Confederate units from Central Texas. Though he wrote on broad Civil War topics such as Walker's Division, most of his writing emphasized the role of units, leaders, and events to do with Freestone County, Texas. One of his most important essays, “Captain T.D. Nettles and the Valverde Battery,” was the most accurate and inclusive essay on the Val Verde Battery to that point. Browne’s correspondence with Val Verde Battery commander T.D. Nettles’ son is preserved in the collection. Other essays were on L.D. Bradley’s Civil War company, W.L. Moody’s company, and A.M. Maddux’s company. Copies of these essays, including research notes, copies of muster rolls, and supporting secondary materials, can be found in this collection. P.D. Browne made lasting contributions to education at Baylor University and various high schools throughout Central Texas, but his most important academic achievement was his work on obscure local Civil War military units at a time no one was doing research on them.
This subseries contains letters to and from P.D. Browne on a variety of topics. Most of the correspondence is personal, but there are some business and other letters present as well.
This subseries contains legal documents relating to P.D. Browne.
This subseries contains1 folder of various bills and receipts from P.D. Browne.
This subseries contains various works written by or about P.D. Browne about various interests of his, including: Christian faith and learning, Baylor teaching materials, organizational minutes and event programs, and other topics.
This subseries contains photographs of P.D. Browne, the Fairfield area where he worked for a time, and some general photographs, including one of him purchasing a new car.
This subseries contains materials from Browne's extensive career as a teacher and administrator at Baylor University. After teaching in the math and religion departments, Browne served as director of a program for retired professors. He was also active in the Baylor Alumni Association.
This subseries contains programs from Browne's time at Baylor University, and a copy of his manuscript The Layman and His Church.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay on Maddux's Company B, 12th Texas Cavalry. The 12th Texas Cavalry, part of Parson's Brigade in the Confederate Trans-Mississippi West, served mostly as scouts and snipers during the Civil War. Browne photocopied muster rolls, correspondence, and requisitions as part of his research; these are included in the subseries.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay on L.D. Bradley's Company B, 2nd Battalion, Waul's Texas Legion. Waul's Texas Legion, part of John C. Pemberton's Vicksburg garrison during the Siege of Vicksburg, was captured and paroled at the end of the campaign. Browne photocopied muster rolls, correspondence, and requisitions as part of his research; these are included in the subseries.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay on the Val Verde Battery, more formally known as the 12th Texas Light Artillery. The Val Verde Battery, part of Green's Division in the Confederate Trans-Mississippi West, served notably in the Red River Campaign during the Civil War. After the war, the battery buried two of their cannons in and around Fairfield, Texas, to avoid surrendering them to the occupying Federal army. Two of the cannons used by this unit survive today. One is preserved in Fairfield, Texas, on the courthouse lawn, and the other at the Confederate Reunion Grounds State Historic Site, near Mexia, Texas. This interesting story was a major research focus of Browne's, and he produced one of the most accurate histories of the unit, which is preserved in this collection as "Captian T.D. Nettles and the Valverde." Other materials present in this subseries include photocopied muster rolls, correspondence, and requisitions, collected as part of Browne's research.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for several included essays on early Freestone County. Also of note is Brown's interest in post-war Confederate reunions in Freestone County; an essay and related source materials are present on this topic.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay "Freestone County Captains in Walker's Division." These apparently included Means' Company H, 28th Texas Cavalry, Waldrom's Company I, 12th Texas Infantry, Peck's Company I, 12th Texas Infantry, and Wilson's Company D, 10th Texas Infantry . Browne photocopied muster rolls, correspondence, and requisitions as part of his research; these are included in the subseries.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay on Thomas J. Pilgrim, early Texas Baptist educator. The essay is included as Essay, "Thomas J. Pilgrim." This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essays on Henry Lee Graves, first president of Baylor University at Independence. Browne's research interests in Fairfield, Texas, and Baylor University coalesced in Henry Lee Graves, who served as Baylor president and later became president of Fairfield Female College.
This subseries contains source materials used by Browne for his included essay on W.L. Moody's Company G, 7th Texas Infantry. As part of Gregg's Brigade, much of the regiment was surrendered at Fort Donelson, but the regiment received enough recruits to continue as a regiment. The unit fought at Chickamauga and then joined Cleburne's division for the Atlanta and 1864 Tennessee Campaigns. The Battle of Franklin, Tennessee, in 1864, destroyed the 7th Texas as an effective fighting force. Remnants of the unit surrendered as part of Joseph Johnston's army in the Carolinas in 1865.
A popular writer of Texas and New Mexico history articles, Gertrude Harris Cook was born in Moulton, Texas, in 1886. She attended Texas Technical College and Sam Houston College, and received a teaching certificate from Sam Houston College. Cook married at 22 years old, in 1908, but was living in Lubbock, Texas, with her mother and a daughter in 1930. It is unknown whom she married or how many children they had together. Her literary career included writing many articles for the Dallas Morning News, as well as several books. Her earliest noted article was written in 1930, but she was still writing in 1955, twenty-five years later. Included in the collection is a manuscript Cook wrote on the Battle of Glorieta Pass, a Civil War battle in New Mexico that was part of the Confederate invasion of New Mexico and Arizona in 1862. Despite an apparent Confederate victory in the battle, the Confederacy lost their bid for invasion when their wagon train, with all their food and other stores, was destroyed by a detachment of the Union army. This catastrophe forced the return of the Confederates to Texas, and was considered the "high-water mark" of Confederate far-west ambitions.
This series contains correspondence between Gertrude Harris Cook and Guy B. Harrison. Cook wanted support from Baylor University in presenting her manuscript to various reviewers and publishing houses before eventual publication. It does not seem to have actually been published.
This series contains Gertrude Harris Cook's unpublished manuscript on the Battle of Glorieta Pass, a battle in the American Civil War that closed New Mexico and all points west of that state to Confederate influence and occupation. The folders that make up this series are divided according to book chapter.
Frank Jasek, born in 1947, authored the book . The project involved writing about Baylor alumni who died as a member of the military forces of the United States. Each deceased alumni is represented on Baylor campus by a granite lamppost, with their name inscribed on a plaque attached to the lamppost. Their stories are preserved in the book, along with photographs of them as available.
This series contains subject and research files used in compiling histories of individuals discussed in Soldiers of the Wooden Cross.
This series contains supplementary research files used in compiling Soldiers of the Wooden Cross.
John Graham Jones was born in Hubbard, Texas, in circa 1918, Jones attended Baylor University from 1935 to 1941. Although he never finished his degree, he did meet and marry his wife, Baylor alum Wilma Marie Richter, on 1941 April 13. After serving in the U.S. Army during World War II, Jones sought his fortune in the printing business. In 1950, the couple started the Whitley Company, a printing company based out of Austin, Texas. Jones, a collector of Texana materials, donated the valuable Texas materials in this collection in 1983. He went on to set up numerous scholarships at the Baylor University Schools of Business and Education as well as Truett Theological Seminary.
This series, the only one in the collection, contains 127 broadsides from the Spanish, Mexican, and Repulic eras of Texas history. The materials are organized chronologically.
Opened in 1908, the Woodrow School in Dallas, Texas, was a fine arts school for girls from elite families of the greater Dallas area. Operated by Caroline Beatrice Mead Woodrow, the school is a typical example of a north Texas girls' finishing school in the early 1900s. Caroline Beatrice Mead Woodrow, originally from Missouri, first shows up in Texas in 1910. She was 38 years old, and married to Otho D. Woodrow, a railroad clerk and agent in the Dallas area. It is assumed that Caroline must have been well-educated prior to opening her school, since she taught many of the classes herself. She opened her new school in 1908, first at 279 Elm Street, but then moved to the Watkins Studios at 1205 Elm Street. The name of the school also changed as Woodrow was fine-tuning her teaching operation. Originally the school was known as the "Woodrow School of Elocution and Dramatic Art." By 1913 it was the "Woodrow School of Elocution and Physical Culture," a name which it kept for a number of years. By 1912 Woodrow was able to hire an assistant, and by 1915 Caroline had a staff of three and was teaching about 90 students a year in the White system of expression. This system of expression was a noted way to teach students how to best utilize gesture, emotion, and voice in public. By the 1920s the Woodrow school was doing very well, with multiple instructors teaching over 200 students a four-year curriculum of voice, acting, singing, violin, piano, dancing, literature, French, and other liberal arts subjects. The school had also moved again by 1925, this time to Bush Temple on 1311 Elm Street, and slighly changed their name to the "Woodrow School of Expression and Physical Culture." The school had official colors of crimson and gold, and produced a school newspaper, the "Woodrow School Siren." Many issues of this newspaper are present in the collection. Appropriately enough, the school was placing heavy emphasis on public performances of the students' learning, with seven plays scheduled to be performed in 1921. Also in the 1920s, the Alumni Association of the Woodrow School is mentioned, though the alumni could have been meeting informally for years. By that time the school had moved again, to 1203 Elm Street. Night classes at the Woodrow School are mentioned in 1938, along with classes in radio, and home study courses. The school's name had also been shortened to the "Woodrow School of Expression." On a more personal note for Woodrow, her husband, Otho Dwight Woodrow, passed away in 1939. The school continued operations into the 1940s, though they changed locations again in 1942, to 3215 Mabray, in a "cottage studio." By now, it seems the demand for girls' finishing schools had lessened, as Woodrow had no assistants helping to teach. No total count of students was available, but it seems the number of students had dropped significantly. Woodrow continued teaching for many years, but passed away in 1963 at the age of 92. She had trained hundreds of north Texas girls in liberal arts, was head of one of the longest-running girls' schools in the area, and had made a significant impact in the art and culture of Dallas, Texas.
This series contains 2 scrapbooks on activities at the Woodrow School in Dallas, Texas.
Plans to construct a building for the Bible Department at Baylor University began in Mineral Wells, Texas, in 1936 November, during the annual session of the Baptist General Convention of Texas. A group of 125 attendees met in the basement of First Baptist Church, where they discussed the construction of a new building on Baylor’s campus. Those present decided that the building should be named after Josiah Blake Tidwell, head of the Bible Department, to recognize his distinguished service to the university. The following year, architect Birch D. Easterwood designed floor plans for the proposed Tidwell Bible Building, which called for a two-story structure measuring fifty feet wide and 140 feet long. The building was to include three classrooms, a lounge room, office spaces, prayer rooms, a library with reading room, an assembly room, restrooms on a basement floor, and space for the Baptist Student Union Council. Fundraising efforts slowed in the early 1940s because of construction restrictions during World War II. Work began anew in 1944 November, with the organization of a statewide fundraising campaign. Along with the renewed fundraising effort came the hiring of Guy A. Carlander, a prominent architect from Amarillo, Texas. Carlander was also the son-in-law of J. B. Tidwell. Carlander's new plan for the Tidwell Bible Building was for a ten-story building that included lecture rooms, offices, prayer rooms, a library, nursery, and a chapel that would seat 800. The most elaborate and prominent portion of the design was the 100-foot tall window that Carlander called the “wall of light.”Ground for the Tidwell Bible Building was broken on 1949 May 28, but the structure would not be completed for several years. After Carlander’s architectural plans for the building were submitted to contractors for bids, the estimates greatly exceeded the $600,000 budget. When the committee asked Carlander to modify his design to reduce costs, Carlander refused. Subsequently, the committee relieved Carlander of his duties. In the summer of 1952, feeling that the university owed him more money than the $7,200 he had already received, Carlander sued Baylor for $109,000, a figure he based on the projected costs of the building he had designed. Despite a challenge to the lawsuit from the university in 1957 February, Carlander won and received $92,000 in 1958. Meanwhile, the campaign committee rehired Birch D. Easterwood to modify the building plans to fit within the budget. The finished structure, dedicated on 1954 October 22, rose to seven stories and cost just under $600,000.
This series consists of campaign committee meeting minutes from 1945 to 1948. It also contains meeting minutes from the Baptist General Convention of Texas from 1946.
This series contains financial records dealing with fundraising efforts and construction of the Tidwell Bible Building. Items in the series include pledge cards, donation and gift records, and financial reports.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains many letters regarding fundraising efforts for the Tidwell Bible Building.
This series contains construction proposals, building and mechanical contracts, and furniture and equipment specification documentation for the Tidwell Bible Building.
This series includes press statements and public relations items, campaign literature, advertising suggestions, and blueprints relating to the Tidwell Bible Building.
This series consists of legal documents relating to the lawsuit that Guy A. Carlander filed against Baylor University.
This series contains documents regarding contents of and contributions to the Bible library formerly housed in the Tidwell Bible Building.
 Theodore “Ted” Amar Lyons was born on 1900 December 28 to Asa and Sudie Lyons in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Admitted to Baylor on a baseball scholarship in 1919, Lyons was also the starting center for the Baylor basketball team. After his coach convinced him to try pitching, Lyons’s stellar baseball career began. His Baylor baseball years culminated in a 6-2 victory over the Texas Longhorns in 1923, where Lyons pitched a complete game to claim the Southwest Conference Championship. On July second of that year, Lyons signed a contract with the Chicago White Sox, skipping the minor leagues entirely and pitching in his first major league game the very same day. According to Chicago newspapers, Ted Lyons quickly became the most popular player on the White Sox team. His career eventually spanned 21 years, and he won 260 games with a team that never finished higher than third in their division. His career included three 20-win seasons, leading the league twice. Lyons was so reliable and popular that from 1939-1942 he pitched almost exclusively on Sundays, the day of highest park attendance. Thus, Ted Lyons became known in baseball as “The Sunday Pitcher.” In 1942, after a season where he posted an exceptional 2.10 ERA, Lyons left baseball to join the United States Marines fighting in World War II. As a Marine, Lyons served primarily in the South Pacific, notably organizing a baseball camp in the Marshall Islands to spread goodwill with America’s national pastime. After returning to the White Sox in 1946, Lyons pitched one more season before becoming the Sox manager for three years. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1955. Ted Lyons never married, and spent the rest of his life back home in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Even as late as 1981 he was receiving hundreds of autograph requests each year. He died on 1986 July 25. His legacy and career as a Baylor Bear and White Sox pitcher make his collection a fascinating study for any researcher interested in Baylor, sports, or twentieth century cultural history.
This series contains letters regarding Ted Lyons's career. There are also several letters authored by Ted.
This series contains newspaper clippings and other literary productions pertaining to the career of Ted Lyons.
This series contains original photographs of Ted Lyons.
This series contains a textile square with Ted Lyon's White Sox number, #16, embroidered on it. It appears to be a piece of his jersey. It is attached to a frame with staples.
Reverend Samuel Pascal Wright was born in Clarksville, Tennessee, on 1838 February 1. We know little of his life until his marriage to Mary Wyatt Harris, the seventh child of John Wyatt Harris and Judith Eldridge Cox, in Russellville, Alabama. Wright and his wife moved with their family to Lorena, Texas, in 1870, when Pastor Wright preached at Stanford’s Chapel. Samuel and Mary had nine children, eight of whom survived into adulthood. Reverend Samuel Wright later served as president of Waco Female College from 1883 to 1887 after which he served as Presiding Elder for the Northwest Texas Conference. No exact date of death for Rev. Samuel Pascal Wright has been found. Mrs. C.N. McCulley is the descendant of Reverend Wright who collected and compiled the material in a single location. In February 2013, she donated the collected materials to the Historic Waco Foundation, who then donated the items to the Texas Collection in 2013 August.
The Genealogy series consists of collected genealogical information regarding the descendants of Samuel Pascal Wright. Items in this collection are both created by individual persons and official public records. The material type ranges from oral histories and photographs, to legal documents and correspondence.
Edward Charles (E.C) Blomeyer was born in Missouri in 1882. He married Amma Pottinger in 1904 and together they had three children, Mary, Edward, and Earle. During his time in Waco, Texas, 1912-1920, Mr. Blowmeyer became one of the early pioneers in the telephone industry in central Texas. He served in many capacities in this growing field, helping to establish and improve communication networks throughout the central Texas area. As well as his work in the telephone industry, he was active in community service in the Waco area. Examples include membership in the following organizations: the Young Men's Business League (YMBL), in which he served as chairman, Waco Chamber of Commerce, Waco Ad Club, Waco Public Library, and the Waco Rotary Club. He was also a member of the Karem Temple and various Masonic organizations in the city. Additionally, his two sons were born in Waco.
 In 1904, Blomeyer entered the telephone industry working for the Southeast Missouri Telephone Company, in Charleston, Missouri, starting as auditor, then secretary, and later its manager. In 1912, he moved to Waco, Texas, to work for the Brazos Valley Telegraph and Telephone Company. In 1914, the Texas Telephone Company merged with 5 separate telephone companies in central, south, and east Texas. This conglomeration expanded the Texas Telephone Company greatly operating lines through thirty-four towns in the state at that time. Blomeyer first served as secretary-treasurer of the newly formed Texas Telephone Company, as well as assistant to the president, J.B. (John Baylis) Earle II. The Texas Telephone Company's local expansion included Lorena, Mart, McGregor, Moody, Waco, and West, Texas. In 1918, E.C. Blomeyer became president of the TTC as the company continued to buy out or merge with several other independent telephone operations in the greater central Texas area. Additionally, in 1918, he began serving as president of the Texas Independent Telephone Association, a position he held until 1920; he would later be designated an honorary life member. Serving in this capacity he took part in proceedings, and later, executive positions in the United States Independent Telephone Association. E.C. Blomeyer's time in Waco and the central Texas area helped build on his previous experience in the telephone industry. As a result, in 1920, he took a position with the Automatic Electric Company, owned by Theodore Gary and Co., of Chicago, Illinois. The AEC of Chicago's corporate lineage began in the Strowger Automatic Telephone Exchange Co., started by the inventor of the dial telephone, Almon Strowger. AEC bought the patents from Strowger in 1918 and was a major supplier of dial-telephones to independent telephone companies in the United States and abroad. Blomeyer's arrival at Automatic Electric was at an important time in that company's history. The Strowger (rotary-dial telephone) patents which they held had just been licensed to the Bell Corporation for a sum of $2.5 million. After the sale, AEC still continued to produce the rotary-dial system for telephone operations other than the Bell Corporation. In his position at the Automatic Electric Company, Blomeyer also served as contract sales manager for its associated company, the International Telephone Sales and Engineering Corporation. In doing so, he supervised overseas business and contract sales of dial telephones. At this time, the AEC manufactured and supplied approximately 80 percent of the automatic dial-operated telephone equipment used worldwide. In 1923, he was made vice-president of Theodore Gary and Co., owner of the AEC, and remained so until his retirement in 1956. The Theodore Gary & Co., was later purchased by General Telephone Corporation in 1955, later renamed General Telephone & Electronics (GTE). With his keen interest in the telephone industry and engineering, Blomeyer was also a prolific writer contributing articles to several publications including: : Letters to Managers. By 1934, copies of the ten book series numbered over three million in circulation. After retirement, he spent some of his remaining years in Palm Beach, Florida, where he died in 1964. A year later, to recognize his life's work in the telephone industry, E.C. Blomeyer was inducted into the Independent Telephone Hall of Fame. Additionally, the Blomeyer's were a philanthropic family and shared the benefits of their success. The widow of Edward Charles Blowmeyer, Amma, donated funds to Palm Beach Atlantic College enabling the establishment of the E.C. Blomeyer Library, dedicated on March 9, 1969. The library is now called the Warren Library (dedicated 2007) as a series of donations has enabled Palm Beach Atlantic University to expand since its beginning in 1968. E.C. Blomeyer's legacy carries on as a benefactor of this university, in his writings, photographic record, and contributions to the telephone industry, including that of central Texas.
In 1904, E.C. Blomeyer entered the telephone industry working for the Southeast Missouri Telephone Company, in Charleston, Missouri. The images in this series include industry related subjects beginning in the states of Missouri and Illinois. Blomeyer then moved to Waco, Texas, in 1912, to work for the Brazos Valley Telegraph and Telephone Company, and later The Texas Telephone Company after a large merger of many independent telephone entities. The merging expanded operations of the Texas Telephone Company to Lorena, Mart, McGregor, Moody, and West, Texas. By 1918, E.C.
Blomeyer had become president of the TTC and the company continued to buy out or merge with several other telephone operations around the state. The images in this series help document the work done after these acquisitions. In some cases, telephone poles, lines, and equipment were primitive or outdated for their time, and they are detailed in these photographs.
This subseries of images includes buildings, office spaces, switch board operators, equipment, and people from the Southeast Missouri Telephone Company. Most are believed to be in or around Charleston, Missouri, although some locations include telephone exchanges in Illinois. These images by E.C. Blomeyer date from approximately 1906 to circa 1912.
This subseries contains rural telephone poles and lines documented by E.C. Blomeyer. They help show the primitive way in which equipment used for telecommunications was constructed in the early days of this industry in McLennan County, Texas, and surrounding counties. Additionally, storage facilities are included showing a detailed look at early telephones and equipment.
This subseries shows operators, switchboards, and telephone related scenes. The locations the images were taken are in Texas, Missouri, and Illinois.
Edward Charles Blomeyer left behind a detailed photographic record of the state during the time he lived in Waco, Texas (1912-1920), after moving from Missouri to work in the telephone business. He photographed Waco extensively, including images of local military facilities, events, parks, rivers, and parades. Around the state, he took pictures on trips to San Antonio, Austin, New Braunfels, Port Arthur, Galveston, and Lake Greenbriar in Tyler. A few of the images pre-date the year E.C. Blomeyer moved to the state, including some of the images of San Antonio which were taken approximately 1906. He also photographed the railroad that ran through central Texas including the Missouri Kansas and Texas (MKT) and St. Louis Southwestern Railway (Cotton Belt). These show locomotives, carriages, crossings, and tracks. The rural roadways in and around McLennan County are detailed as Blomeyer took pictures of the rough road conditions encountered in his travels by automobile. Also included is a group of pictures of an unidentified Texas oil field.
E.C. Blomeyer lived in Waco, Texas, from 1912-1920. As well as serving as President of The Texas Telephone Company, he was also an avid photographer. His images shown in this subseries show Waco during an important time in its history as it was experiencing tremendous growth with many changes. Some images include Rich Field, Camp MacArthur, derailment of Camp MacArthur troop train, Gurley Park auto race, monuments, Texas Cotton Palace Parade, Texas Cotton Palace main building, cotton trade days on the Waco city square, Brazos River, Washington Street Bridge, floods in downtown, and Elm Street.
This group of images shows some of Waco's most popular scenic spots such as Cameron Park, located within the city and the Brazos and Bosque Rivers that flow through the park and nearby downtown. The river crossings that span the Brazos such as the Waco Suspension Bridge, Interurban Bridge, and the Washington Street Bridge are shown. Images of the Brazos River at flood as well as low water levels are seen. Elm Street is included as the images show how it was adversely affected when the nearby Brazos River flooded.
On June 18, 1918, troop train number 264, carrying soldiers from the 80th Field Artillery, which was posted at Camp MacArthur, left Waco, Texas, traveling eastward on the Cotton Belt rail line, derailed in the nearby town of Selby. The Waco News-Tribune, June 19-20, 1918, states that the accident caused the deaths of 2 troops: Corporals Laurn Harrell and August Handschumacher, Jr. Additionally, about 30 military personnel and 4 employees of the railroad were injured. The wreckage of the derailment is documented by E.C. Blomeyer in this series of photographs.
The photographs in this group demonstrate the importance of the cotton industry in Waco and McLennan County. The cotton yard that was once located in downtown Waco in the area of Second and Jackson through Clay streets is shown stocked with many bales of cotton ready for market. Waco was home to the Texas Cotton Palace, an annual event that drew tens of thousands of people annually for several years; an image of the main building is shown. Additionally, this series contains images of the annual Cotton Palace Parade making its way on Austin Avenue. Texas Governor Jim Ferguson is photographed participating in this event.
This group of pictures includes scenes of Waco's military bases such as Camp MacArthur and Rich Field. Other images show auto races, street scenes, the Shakespeare monument, and bird's eye views of downtown. Additionally, the remains of the Huaco Clubhouse after a fire destroyed it are included.
This subseries shows images of Texas such as Austin, Galveston, Port Aransas, San Antonio, Waxahachie, Tyler, and New Braunfels. Other scenes show rural gravel roads in or around McLennan County and the rough conditions early motorists faced. Other pictures show examples of the many rail roads and an unidentified oil and natural gas "boomtown." This series of photographs consists mainly of steam locomotives hauling passengers and freight by the Katy (Missouri, Kansas, and Texas-M.K.& T.) Railroad of Texas. Some images may have been taken in Waco near the Katy depot but most are taken in rural areas in or around McLennan County, Texas.
E.C. Blomeyer captured several scenes of the roads around Waco, McLennan County, and the central Texas area at a time when they were suited more for wagons than automobiles. He consistently photographed his Ford Model-T along these roads as if to record the adverse conditions he encountered in his travels.
This group of images includes some of Texas' most prominent sites such as the State Capitol in Austin, the Alamo in San Antonio, and the Texas gulf coast. Coastal images include the Galveston Causeway, Hotel Galvez, and Galveston Seawall.
This group of photographs shows one of Texas' many booming oil and natural gas fields of the early 20th century. Its location is unknown.
Ranging from Arkansas to Canada, E.C. Blomeyer and family took many trips that they documented through taking photographs of their favorite scenes, activities, living spaces, and people they knew or met on their journeys.
This subseries shows pictures E.C. Blomeyer took while on vacation at Bella Vista, Benton County, Arkansas. Images are of lakes, wooded areas and trails, water falls, caves, cabins, and various people including family members.
The printed photographs in this series show the observation tower at the top of Pikes Peak and the cog train rail track that leads to it. Also shown is Royal Gorge, Canon City, and the railroad route that travels through the mountain range.
This subseries includes images taken of the trails and views on Mount Pisgah, North Carolina. Most of the images are views taken of the surrounding Appalachian mountain ranges from the mountain top.
This subseries includes images of the exterior of George Washington's tomb in Mt. Vernon, Virginia, and a park service employee overseeing it. Another image shows the George Washington Monument in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Scenic views of the Potomac Canal around Maryland and Virginia are included; E.C. Blomeyer is photographed standing on its banks.
This group of photographs includes scenes of Yellowstone National park including geyser basins, water falls, gorges, and buffalo.
The Blomeyer family traveled to Niagra Falls, circa 1920. This subseries shows scenes including Honeymoon Bridge, and an early version of the "Maid of the Mist" that still transports passengers close to the falls.
This group of photographs includes lake scenes, rivers, ponds, creeks, mountains, and wooded areas or forests. It also contains images of bridges, monuments, fountains, and structures including buildings, and cabins. A few images contain a group of Native Americans.
The majority of the people in this series are unidentified with the exception of a few including E.C. Blomeyer and his immediate family. Most of the locations include Missouri, Texas, and a few images taken after the Blowmeyer's move to Illinois after 1920.
This subseries includes images of Edward Charles (E.C.) Blomeyer and his immediate family: wife Amma, daughter Mary, and sons Edward and Earle. Included are candid photos taken in Missouri, Waco, Texas, and Illinois.
The items in this subseries include pictures of unidentified people with the exception of a few. Locations include Missouri, Texas, Illinois, and other unidentified locations, some were possibly taken while on vacation.
The photos in the series include the aftermath of a flood and subsequent damage. Other images show general street scenes in rural areas and towns. Another group of photos is of the John Robinson Circus in an unknown town. Shown is its arrival by train followed by a circus parade. Other images show lakes, rivers, and railroad tracks.
This series contains images of aircraft, automobiles, street cars, wagons or carriages, and watercraft including steamships, river boats, sailboats, and ferries. Several examples of early steam powered water vessels are represented. One better known example is a photograph of the passenger steamship "Eastland," included in this collection.
This subseries contains images of ranching and crop-raising. Included are livestock such as cattle, goats, pigs, and chickens. The crop scenes show fields and an early water irrigation system. Locations are not certain, but it is believed that most are of Texas with some images taken in Missouri.
This series of photographs consists of several small combined groups such as unidentified homes, rugs, photos taken for publications, and animals such as birds and horn toads. The publication photographs were sent to Popular Mechanics Magazine, for stories written about filing photographic negatives, organizing hand tools, and home improvement.
Frances Louise Cobb Todd was born in Waco, Texas, in 1930, to Eddie and Irene Caufield Cobb. The papers of Irene Caufield Cobb are also preserved at The Texas Collection. Frances Cobb Todd graduated from Waco High School, and went on to Bishop College in Marshall, Texas, where she graduated magna cum laude. She also received a master's degree from Prairie View A&M. On 1953 December 28 she married Emmitt Todd, who had also attended Bishop College. A scrapbook from their days together at Bishop is available in the collection. After marriage, the Todd family lived and worked in Waco, Texas. Frances was a schoolteacher in the Waco Independent School District for over thirty years, and taught reading and language at Cedar Ridge Elementary, and Barron Springs Elementary. She was also very involved in community activities, such as Phi Delta Kappa, Waco Civic Theatre, Jack and Jill Incorporated, and her church, New Hope Baptist. Emmitt and Frances Cobb Todd had one daughter, Alicia Todd Grinage. Alicia was very gifted musically, winning a number of awards for her piano playing. She attended Bishop College like her parents had, and received a degree in mathematics and computer science. She went on to receive a graduate mathematics degree from Howard University, and worked as a computer specialist for Texas Instruments and the United States Environmental Protection Agency. She married Robert James Grinage at New Hope Baptist Church in Waco on 1975 July 21.
This series contains various materials on Todd's life, mostly organized topically, including letters, family materials from her daughter Alicia Todd Moss Grinage and others, photographs, and personal materials on Francis Cobb Todd.
This series contains materials collected by Francis Cobb Todd about New Hope Baptist Church, including church worship bulletins, various church programs, and photographs.
This series contains materials on various civic organizations that Francis Cobb Todd joined. In 1973, Todd was vice-president of the Waco chapter of the Jack and Jill Incorporated organization. She was also the first African American woman to serve on Waco Civic Theatre board of directors.
Roxy Harriette Grove was born at Liberty, Missouri, about 1889. She graduated from Howard Payne College in 1906 when that school was a two-year college, and received her AB. degree from Baylor University in 1908. She later received her bachelor of music and M.A degrees from Baylor and was awarded a Doctor of Music degree from the Southern School of Fine Arts in Houston. Grove served as a missionary to São Paulo, Brazil, from 1909 to 1912. From 1912 to 1913 she studied music under Arthur Schnabel in Germany. She taught at Howard Payne College and Hardin-Simmons University before accepting a position at Baylor in 1926. During her administration as chair of the School of Music from 1926 to 1943, Baylor became the first school in Texas to attain membership in the National Association of Schools of Music. Roxy Grove Hall at Baylor was named in her honor. Grove was active in the Texa Association of Music Teachers, National Matthay Association of America, Mu Phi Epsilon music society, Waco Music Teachers Association, and the Waco Ensemble Club. She continued to teach music at Baylor until her death on 8 January 1952.
The Personal Materials Series consists of correspondence, invitations, sheet music and musical scores, issues of Musical America Magazine from the 1940s, postcards, financial receipts, performance programs, news clippings, photographs and prints, Grove's scrapbook from Germany, and teaching records. Some materials in Grove's teaching records are restricted. Please see the Archivist for further information.
This series contains music scores and lyrics, reports, clippings and Baylor School of Music materials such as programs for recitals and performances. Commencement and Baccalaureate programs, maps, and biographies on other musicians can also be found in this series. The largest section of this series deals with publications, literary productions, and catalogues from other universities, organizations and businesses selling musical scores and items. Books and lists round out this series.
This series contains oversize music scores and choral pieces, either some or all handwritten by Roxy Grove. Some scores have only a few parts completed while others have full sections. Some are simply one part music. There is one print of John Phillips Sousa and one portrait of an unidentified female also in the oversize materials.
On 1922 February 11, the dome of the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library on the Baylor University campus in Waco, Texas, caught on fire. Despite the efforts of local firefighters to contain the blaze, flames quickly spread throughout the structure and destroyed the building. At the time, the edifice housed the contents of Baylor’s libraries, including the Browning Library, law library, and the university’s general library holdings. While the structure was completely gutted by the fire, portions of the general collection and the entire Browning and law libraries were preserved through the efforts of students who ran into the burning building and retrieved armfuls of books. The following month, a twenty-member committee organized to coordinate efforts to rebuild the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library. They announced that the building would be reconstructed immediately and proposed that the new edifice include a bigger chapel to better accommodate the university’s student body, and a larger library to provide space to grow. The committee assigned the primary concern of fundraising to the Alumni Association, and appealed “to every former student, to every Baptist in Texas, and to all interested friends” to donate or pledge money to the campaign. The fundraising and rebuilding of F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library did not take long, for on 1923 December 12, the newly rebuilt structure was reopened to the public during a celebration of President Samuel Palmer Brooks’s birthday. Although the reconstruction did not include a chapel as originally had been suggested, it did contain space to house the university’s general library holdings, Browning Library, law library, and the recently acquired Texas Room (now known as the Texas Collection). The building also had a trophy room, several classrooms, and even a courtroom for the law school. Though the uses of the building have changed through the years, the Carroll Library is still in active use today by various Baylor departments.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains letters and some telegrams regarding fundraising efforts for the reconstruction of the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library.
This series contains financial records dealing with fundraising efforts for the reconstruction of the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library. Items in the series include pledge lists and receipts.
This series contains a document outlining suggested procedures for implementing the Alumni Rebuilding Campaign and a list of “big givers” who had contributed large sums of money to the 75 Million Campaign.
This series contains a 1923 program from when the newly reconstructed F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library reopened.
D.K. Martin was born in Johnson County, Texas, on 1878 January 17, but moved to Hill County later. He attended Baylor University, graduating in 1900. An excellent athlete while in college, Martin won the first Field (Track) Day medal awarded by Baylor to a student. After graduation, Martin moved first to Itasca, then to San Antonio, where he worked as an insurance salesman and real estate agent. He married Mary Woodall Martin in 1904, and they had one son, Edward W. Martin. Martin was a member of the Texas State Highway Commission for eleven years under Governors Ross Sterling and Dan Moody, 1925-1936. This service and the efficiency of the highway system at this time was a source of considerable pride to Martin. He was mentioned more than once as a possible candidate for governor during his service on the commission. In addition to his political life, D.K. Martin is remembered for his long service to Baylor University as a fundraiser, member of the Board of Trustees, president of the Baylor Alumni Association, administrator, and Baylor booster. His fundraising activities alone continued for over 30 years, including involvement as chairman of the 1920s Greater Baylor campaign, 1940s Tidwell Bible Building campaign, and an active member of the Baylor Centennial Foundation. Although involved with many Baylor activities, he was closely involved with fundraising for Rena Marrs McLean Gymnasium, Tidwell Bible Building, Alexander Residence Hall, Morrison Hall, Armstrong Browning Library, Marrs McLean Science Building, and other associated buildings. He also was involved with fundraising for Baylor athletics. Martin retired from business and moved to Waco in 1957, where he continued his active involvement with Baylor. D.K. Martin died in Waco on 1965 August 18.
This series contains letters written to or by D.K. "Dock" Martin during his career as insurance salesman, real estate agent, Baylor fundraiser, and highway commissioner.
This series contains various materials on Martin's life and career, including subject files, newspaper clippings, reports, legal papers, and other associated materials. Many of the subject files include correspondence about the topic.
On 1931 May 14, Samuel Palmer Brooks, president of Baylor University from 1902 to 1931, died. Only five days after Brooks’ death, the school newspaper reported that the Alumni Association was expected to make plans to establish some sort of memorial to honor President Brooks. By the end of the month, the Association decided to raise money to purchase and install a pipe organ in Waco Hall as a tribute to Brooks. They also determined to place a plaque or bust honoring Brooks in Waco Hall, and, if able to procure enough funds, to erect a chapel in Dallas at the Baylor Medical College. In order to purchase and install a pipe organ in Waco Hall, the Alumni Association resolved to raise $40,000. Earl B. Smyth, Alumni Association president and chairman of the S. P. Brooks Memorial Organ Committee, hoped that the funds could be raised quickly so that the organ would be in place for Baylor’s 1932 commencement. Unfortunately, the Great Depression slowed fundraising efforts and it took several years to raise sufficient funds for the instrument. Two years prior to the installation of the Brooks organ in Waco Hall, a smaller organ, called the Kimball organ, was placed in the building. Robert Markham, professor in Baylor’s organ department, designed the specifications of the Brooks organ, which was an enlargement of the Kimball organ. Dedicated on 1937 May 30, the new Brooks organ was purportedly the largest pipe organ in the Southwest at the time.
During the dedicatory services, Baylor’s Board of Trustees and Mattie Sims Brooks, President Brooks' widow, presented the University with an oil painting of the former president. Also, a bronze memorial plaque was placed in the foyer of Waco Hall in commemoration of Brooks.
This series is the largest in the collection and contains letters regarding fundraising efforts to finance the purchase of an organ honoring Baylor president Samuel Palmer Brooks.
This series contains financial records dealing with fundraising efforts to finance the purchase of an organ honoring Baylor president Samuel Palmer Brooks.
This series contains literary manuscripts dealing with fundraising efforts to finance the purchase of an organ honoring Baylor president Samuel Palmer Brooks. Contents include a notebook that contains meeting minutes, letters, a list of the number of Baylor graduates by year, and a list of Baylor class secretaries. A ledger book, entitled “Brooks Memorial Organ Solicitation Lists,” contains lists of Baylor graduates by year, and the names of “Friends of Baylor and of Dr. Brooks.” The series also has a copy of the “Brooks Memorial Organ Edition of the Baylor Monthly." At the beginning of the twentieth century, construction of two new buildings became possible thanks to the generous donations of George W. Carroll and his father, F. L. Carroll. Construction of the first building began in 1901 May when George W. Carroll donated $60,000 to Baylor University to build a science hall. George’s contribution jumped to $75,000 when he later offered an additional $15,000 to equip the building. Only four months after George offered his first donation for the science hall, his father, F. L. Carroll, gave $50,000 to Baylor for a chapel and library. The university held a joint two-day cornerstone laying ceremony for the two buildings in 1902 March. A little over a year later in 1903 April, both buildings were dedicated in a joint three-day celebration. When completed, the George W. Carroll Science Hall and the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library greatly expanded the size of campus. While these buildings have been used for different purposes over the years, they are still in active use today and stand as tributes to the generosity of George W. Carroll, F. L. Carroll, and their families.
This series contains letters regarding the furnishing of the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library and the George W. Carroll Science Hall.
This series contains dedication programs from when the F. L. Carroll Chapel and Library and the George W. Carroll Science Hall were dedicated.
Grace Noll Crowell was born in Inland, Iowa, on 1877 October 31 and graduated in 1901 with her Bachelor of Arts from German-English College in Wilton, Iowa. She married Norman H. Crowell on 1901 September 4 and had three sons, Dean, Reid, and Norton. Crowell’s family moved to Wichita Falls, Texas, in 1917, and to Dallas in 1919. Crowell began writing poetry while immobile after giving birth to her first child. Her first written poem was “The Marshland,” and she published her first poetry book in October 1925, White Fire, winning first prize from the Texas Poetry Society.
Many of her poems were published in magazines and newspapers, clippings of which appear in this collection. They illustrate various parts of life, especially homemaking, motherhood, family, holidays, and religious themes. Crowell won numerous awards and honors for her poetry, including being named Poet Laureate of Texas in 1935, winning the Golden Scroll Medal of Honor in 1938 as National Honor Poet, and being chosen as honorary chancellor of the National Federation of State Poetry Societies in 1965. She was also chosen as American Mother of the Year by the Golden Rule Foundation in 1938. Baylor University awarded her an honorary doctorate in 1940. Crowell had a full career of writing and publishing poetry, prose, and stories, amounting to over thirty-five published books. The most well-known books of poetry are Songs of Hope (1938). Grace N. Crowell died in Dallas on 31 March 1969 and is buried at Hillcrest Mausoleum.
This series contains scrapbooks mainly containing Crowell’s poems, other poems of inspiration, and newspaper and magazine clippings of stories on Crowell.
This series contains correspondence, including a manuscript of “The Glowing Word,” legal documents, invitations and booklets, and a Storm Lake, Iowa, newspaper with a publication by Crowell’s husband.
This series includes photographs of Grace Noll Crowell’s family and photographs from German-English College.
This series contains a printing plate for three films from 1933, “Female,” “Hoop-La,” and “Man’s Castle.” The John H. Talton Papers provide a fascinating insight into the life of one black man who lived in Waco, Texas during the 1920s. John H. Talton was born in Louisiana on 1875 November 22. After some further study on the university level, Talton moved to Texas where he took a job at Paul Quinn College as the foreman of the Mechanical Printing Department. In 1905 he was promoted to the position of History Teacher, and eventually became a professor in the Department of History and Biography where he would remain until 1924. Paul Quinn College was founded in 1872 by the Methodist Episcopal Church, moving to Waco in 1877. Relocated to Dallas in 1990, Paul Quinn College is the oldest African American liberal arts college in Texas. While in Waco, Talton met his wife Pinkie Althea Talton, who was born in Texas on 1882 September 27. Pinkie was a teacher at A.J. Moore High School in Waco and the two were married by the time of publication of the 1910 Waco City Directory. In 1924, Talton left Paul Quinn to become a grocer. During the 1920s, Talton was also involved with the Mount Moriah Lodge of the Prince Hall Masons in Waco. John H. Talton died in Waco on 1968 September 11. His wife Pinkie died less than a year later, in 1969 August. Although the details we know about Talton’s life are scarce, his connections to the Mount Moriah Lodge of Prince Hall Masonry and Paul Quinn College make his papers an especially rich collection of resources.
This series contains correspondence, financial materials, and literary productions relating to the personal life of John H. Talton.
This series contains correspondence and literary productions related to John H. Talton’s work at Paul Quinn College.
This series contains ledger books and literary productions related to the Mt. Moriah Lodge of the Prince Hall Masons in Waco, Texas.
 Billie Huggins Harrison, the daughter of G. W. Harrison and Emma Ruth Gibson, was born on 1926 May 24 in Temple, Texas. After graduating from Temple High School in 1943, Billie attended Temple Junior College (now named Temple College), where she received an associate’s degree. She also attended Baylor University and graduated in 1947 with a bachelor’s degree in business administration. While in school, Billie kept scrapbooks that provide insight into the life of a female student during the 1930s and 1940s. Upon graduating from Baylor, Billie moved back to Temple and began a thirty-year career working in the administrative offices of the Olin E. Teague Veterans’ Medical Center. On 1949 November 20, Billie married Bill R. Harrison. Throughout their lives, as Billie worked at the VA hospital, Bill worked as a sales manager at various car dealerships. The couple, it appears, never had any children. Bill died on 1997 October 29. Billie lived another sixteen years and eventually died on 2013 December 28. Bill and Billie are buried at Bellwood Memorial Park in Temple.
 This series contains two scrapbooks documenting Billie Huggins Harrison’s elementary, junior high, high school, and college years.
 This series contains a photo album and two loose photographs.
 This series contains Billie Huggins Harrison’s two diplomas from Baylor University.
The Waco Public Library Association records trace the formation and continuing operations of the first Waco Public Library, funded in part by philanthropist Andrew Carnegie. The Waco Public Library Association was formed on 1898 May 4, intending to furnish Waco with its first public library.
In 1899, using circulars, benefits, and other means of raising financial support, the Association founded a library of 600 books in a rented cottage at 116 North Eighth Street. The library officially opened to the public on 1900 January 22. The library soon grew out of its small home, however, and the Association wrote to Andrew Carnegie for potential financial backing. Carnegie, who eventually built 32 such libraries in Texas, agreed to donate $30,000 if a site and $3,000 of yearly support could be obtained from the City of Waco. The city government agreed, and a Building Committee with local businessman William Herman Hoffman Sr. at its head was formed. The new Carnegie Library, with some 3,200 books, opened in Waco on 1904 November 28. Although the original Carnegie building was eventually demolished, the Waco Public Library system remains strong today; its board is now called the Waco-McLennan County Library Advisory Commission. The Waco Public Library Association Records will prove to be an excellent research for anyone interested in the history of Waco, Progressive Era philanthropy, Carnegie Libraries, or the development of a public library from the ground up.
This series contains correspondence regarding fundraising for the Waco Public Library, including communication with other Carnegie libraries. Also included are mailing lists of potential supporters and donors.
This series contains legal documents regarding the new Waco Public Library including business and architectural contracts.
This series contains financial materials related to the fundraising associated with the development of a new library.
This series contains a scrapbook of press clippings related to the Waco library.
This series includes reports, membership lists, clippings, circulars, and other printed materials related to the Waco Public Library Association.
 Annie E. Keeling was born in 1887 October to Ben and Arie Keeling. After moving to Waco in the early 1900’s, the Keeling family lived on North Sixth Street. Annie attended college at Central Texas College, a school in Waco with close ties to her church, New Hope Baptist. In college, she majored in general education, but took a special interest in poetry and drama. She was part of several plays at Central Texas College, and also traveled around the local area giving dramatic readings at local churches. She also wrote several plays and poems, two of which make up this collection. Annie married Sarnie Randle on 1911 July 12. After getting married, she helped to start the Waco City Department of Recreation as a volunteer. She was later hired to teach drama and speech in the Waco Public Schools, but in order to be trained to teach, she attended Baylor University without getting credit. This was in approximately 1932, many years before the first black student was officially admitted to Baylor. After retirement, Randle was involved with many local clubs, including a gardening club and an art club. She died on Christmas Day in 1984. This collection is an excellent resource for anybody interested in early 20th-century theater, or the black community in Waco.
This series contains two plays written by Annie Keeling Randle.
L.L. Johnson grew up in Ellis County, Texas, and attended Baylor University. After graduating from Baylor in 1909, he studied at Southwestern Theological Seminary in Waco and Fort Worth, serving in churches near Fort Worth. He graduated from Southwestern in 1911, married Sammie Guynes in September of the same year, and served as pastor of a Baptist church in Whitesboro, Texas, for the next four years. In 1915, the family departed as Baptist missionaries to Brazil. They would stay in Brazil until 1954, setting up Baptist churches, training Brazilian Baptist pastors, leading worship, and ministering to the people of Brazil. After thirty-nine years in the mission field, Johnson reluctantly retired to Muskogee, Oklahoma. L.L. Johnson passed away in 1971 October 30.
This series contains class lecture notes compiled by L.L. Johnson, a student in a class taught by Benajah Harvey Carroll.
V.H. McClintock, as he was commonly known, was born on 1897 September 16 in Coryell, Texas, to Thomas and Anna Garrett McClintock. Little is known about McClintock’s career before or after his tenure in Germany, except that he practiced law in Texas, including some time in Lubbock. He married his first wife, Calla Walker McClintock, and had one daughter, Anna Sue Caswell, before the start of World War II. McClintock’s work with the War Crimes section was primarily spent reviewing sentences given to convicted NAZI war criminals during the Dachau Trials. The Dachau Trials were the hearings held before the infamous Nuremberg Trials, and were trials for lesser-known NAZIs. McClintock was primarily assigned to review two types of cases, P.O.W. cases (often known as “flyer” cases), and concentration camp cases. The most famous P.O.W. case McClintock reviewed was known as the Malmedy massacre, when over 70 American prisoners of war were killed during the Battle of the Bulge outside of the Belgian town Malmedy by troops of the German First SS Panzer Division. The trial was one of the most-publicized and most controversial of the war, with over 70 defendants and 43 initial death sentences (none of which were ultimately carried out). McClintock was also involved with reviewing cases from various concentration camps, including Mauthausen, Flossenberg, and Nordhausen. Case files, memoranda, and reference materials relating to all of these cases are included in this collection. Unfortunately, McClintock’s first wife Calla died in the United States on 1956 December 23. He later married a German woman, Elisabeth Gliemann, before the family returned to Texas in 1961. The couple had three children, Elisabeth Umble, William Hoyt McClintock, and John Carey McClintock. Virgil Hoyt McClintock died in Temple, Texas, on 1974 May 3. His papers are an excellent resource for any researcher interested in studying legal history, the Holocaust, or justice during World War II.
This series contains case files and legal reviews pertaining to the NAZI war crimes defendants from the Dachau Trials. The case files are organized alphabetically by the defendant’s last name. Case numbers are also included, and should be noted when viewing files of various defendants that were tried in one trial.
This series contains printed materials containing official information regarding V.H. McClintock’s job as a member of the War Crimes section.
This series contains various materials relating to V.H. McClintock’s legal work in Germany.
This series contains correspondence, financial documents, photographs, and other material related to V.H. McClintock’s personal life during his years in Germany.
This series contains two scrapbooks documenting, in photographs, the Dachau Trials of 1945-1947.
This series contains books related to V.H. McClintock’s legal work in Germany, as well as propaganda books printed during the rise of the NAZI party.
Dr. John Thomas Harrington, Jr. was born in 1858 in Chicksaw County, Mississippi, to John Thomas and Margaret Williams Belk Harrington. He attended the Louisville Medical College, the Medical School of St. Louis, and the New York Polyclinic Medical College before establishing his first medical practice back in Mississippi. He then moved to Texas where he lived in Bremond, Sweetwater, El Paso, and Abilene before settling down in Waco in the late 1880s. Here, Harrington was on staff at the Hillcrest and Providence Hospitals, as well as serving as the city physician. Among his achievements, he was the president of the board of health at El Paso as well as the director of the Epileptic Colony at Abilene for four years. He was a founder of Simmons College (later Hardin Simmons University) at Abilene where he served as secretary-treasurer of the Board of Trustees. Likewise, he helped to organize the McLennan County Medical Society in 1903. Harrington was a member of the Board of Trustees at Baylor University, serving as chairman from 1932 to 1947, and was a co-founder of Baylor Medical College. Additionally, he served as president of the Chemical Oil Company and secretary-treasurer of the Etla Gold Mining Company of Waco. Dr. Harrington married Genoa Cole at Independence, Texas, in 1884. They had two daughters, Genoa and Jessie, both of whom attended Baylor University and later married. He died in Waco on April 29, 1947.
This series includes a variety of personal correspondence. Much of the material relates to John Thomas Harrington’s medical career.
This series includes correspondence, notebooks, and journals from Harrington’s family members, including his nephew, Milton M. Miller, and his brother, Henry Harrington.
This series includes general collected material.
This series includes both identified and unidentified photographs.
This series includes four types of artwork, a charcoal by Genoa Harrington, a matted print of a watercolor, and a hand-colored print.
In 1927 November, members of the Baptist General Convention of Texas (BGCT) created the Education Commission, whose role was to offer suggestions for improving Baptist denominational schools in Texas. Within a few months, the Commission voted to recommend that Baylor University be relocated to Dallas, and planned to formally make their recommendation during a special session of the BGCT scheduled for 1928 June 5. The proposal for the university’s removal came about because some Dallas citizens offered 1,000 acres of land and $1,500,000 to the institution if the school was moved. Shortly after learning that the Education Commission planned to suggest that Baylor be moved to Dallas, many Wacoans and Baylor alumni began expressing their disapproval of the idea. In an early effort to frustrate the proposed move, the Waco Chamber of Commerce offered to provide the university with three new buildings: a chapel (to be named Waco Hall); a women's dormitory; and a new athletic stadium. On 1928 May 1, in hopes of persuading the Education Commission to reverse their decision about the removal of Baylor to Dallas, members of the Waco Chamber of Commerce and other interested individuals launched the Movement for the Perpetuation of Baylor University. This program, part of the larger Greater Baylor Campaign, was designed to disseminate information regarding the disadvantages of moving Baylor to Dallas and offer reasons for why the school should remain in Waco. Within a few weeks of the creation of the Movement for the Perpetuation of Baylor University, the Education Commission decided not to recommend the relocation of Baylor on the conditions that Wacoans raise $1,000,000 within the next seven years, of which $350,000 had to be pledged by June 5 to build Waco Hall, and that Texas Baptists raise another $1,000,000 within the same timeframe. With slightly over one week to raise $350,000, individuals involved in the Movement organized committees and sent people all over the city to seek donations. When the BGCT met on June 5, the Movement had received pledges from Waco citizens totaling $416,350. Consequently, the Education Commission unanimously recommended that Baylor remain in Waco.
This series contains correspondence regarding efforts to keep Baylor University in Waco.
This series contains literary manuscripts regarding efforts to keep Baylor University in Waco.
This series contains two receipts.
This series contains newspaper clippings from Waco, Dallas, and Houston newspapers concerning the proposed move of Baylor University to Dallas.
A.J. Cooksey was born on 1833 July 3 in Alabama. At some point Cooksey moved to Texas, and he married Elizabeth Henson Tubb Cooksey on 1860 February 21 in Montgomery County, Texas. Together they had four children: Luella born 1861 April 17, James Alvis born 1862 December 24, Anne O’Neal born 1867 August 20, and Anner Jackson born 1880 June 25. At the time of the Civil War, the Cooksey family still lived in Montgomery County. Finding enough men to serve in the Confederate army was a constant problem, and this issue drove the South to pass a draft law in early 1862. While the conscription law certainly brought in new men for the army, many civilians enlisted immediately upon passage of the law so that they could have some choice in the matter, instead of being forced to serve. In this political climate immediately after the conscription law passed, the 20th Texas Infantry was formed in the summer of 1862. A.J. Cooksey joined Company H of the 20th Texas, which was also known as Elmer's Regiment. Cooksey served for the rest of the war with the 20th Texas, which was assigned to guard the Texas coastline for the duration of the war. For three long years, Cooksey helped patrol the area around Galveston, watching for Union naval activities. His regiment, or perhaps his company, seemed to be based in Oakland, Brazoria County (close to Galveston) for most of the war, as indicated by addresses on his letters. Andrew Jackson Cooksey died on 1880 April 2, three months before the birth of his youngest child. Other Civil War letters in the collection appear to be from the Robertson family. None are originals, but a transcript of one letter indicates he was in the 7th Texas Infantry, Gregg's Regiment, Granbury's Brigade, Army of the Tennessee. The Robertson family connection to the Cooksey family is through A.J. Cooksey's son, James Alvis Cooksey. His granddaughter Reba Laucille Rushing married Henry W. Robertson, and the birth certificates for Reba and Henry’s children, as well as other materials from the ancestors of A.J. Cooksey, can be found in the collection. This collection provides a rich historical look at guarding the Gulf Coast during the American Civil War.
This series contains the letters of A.J. Cooksey to his wife Elizabeth Henson Tubb Cooksey throughout the Civil War. Also included are a log book of cotton picked during a season, and an 1863 tax receipt.
This series includes documents about the Robertson family, descendants from the A.J. Cooksey family. Several transcripts of Civil War letters and birth, marriage, and death certificates can be found in this series.
Browning Worth Ware, longtime pastor, author, and church leader, was an important contemporary of Baptist figures Foy Valentine, Charles Wellborn, and other Southern Baptist leaders. Ware pastored Texas churches in Beaumont, Denton, Cleburne, Hubbard, Satin, and Austin, and wrote a column called "Diary of a Modern Pilgrim" that ran in the Austin-American Statesman. On the state and national levels, he was an active leader in what later became the Baptist General Convention of Texas, the Southern Baptist Convention, and was Chaplain of the Texas House and Senate for fourteen years. After many years of dedicated service to God and the people of his church and community, Browning Ware passed away from cancer on 2002 November 1. He is buried in the Texas State Cemetery in Austin, Texas.
This series contains materials from Browning Ware's long service as a Baptist pastor. Much of what he wrote was not able to be traced to a specific church that he pastored, especially since he preached so often at neighboring church services and revivals.
This series contains materials from Ware's regular newspaper column "Diary of a Modern Pilgrim." This column ran in many newspapers, though it was best-known for being in the Austin-American Statesman.
This series contains materials from Ware's personal life, including a high school paper he wrote, letters, and documentation of his retirement from his long service as a pastor.
This series contains materials from Ware's studies at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, and other universities. Also included are documents from when Ware studied at Harvard later in life.
This series contains sermons authored by Dr. Browning Ware, through the different churches he served and the various revivals and other speaking engagements he did that required sermons. Also included are inspirational stories and notes that Ware drew content or inspiration from for his sermons, and some sermons not by Browning Ware that nevertheless influenced his sermons.
This series contains a specialized kind of LP record produced using a Gray Audograph machine, and audio cassette tapes. Recorded on this media are Browning Ware's sermons for select years. Many of these sermons, but not all of them, have been transcribed.
The Women’s Missionary Society was an organization affiliated with one of the Methodist churches located in Wharton County, Texas. The collection records the details of their monthly meetings beginning 1933 December and ending in 1939 December. During these six years, the organization was known by three names and had only two secretaries during that time (Mrs. J.O. Graham, 1933, 1937-1939; Mrs. Hart, 1934-1936). Initially, it was recorded as the Missionary Society, followed by the Women’s Missionary Society, and finally as Women’s Christian Service beginning in 1939 July. The Women’s Missionary Society meetings were highly organized in which they regularly followed a set schedule. Events sponsored by the organization included religious education for children, the maintenance of a women’s home in Houston, and support of Methodist missionaries in Texas oil company towns and in China. In order to support these activities, the organization engaged in various fund raising initiatives. These included soliciting wealthy individuals for donations, selling brand products, and hosting teas, fairs, and special events, such as the Shirley Temple Show during the summer of 1937. These fund raising endeavors provided enough money for the organization to increase its funds during the Great Depression from $300.57 in 1933 to $1,070 in 1939. The Women’s Missionary Society in Wharton County is an example of how a women’s organization flourished during the Great Depression.
This series contains the minutes of the Women's Missionary Society of the Methodist Church.
Harding Black was born in 1912, near Aransas Pass, Texas. He became interested in ceramics while excavating ancient American Indian mounds near Big Bend, Texas, and was taught to throw clay by his colleague, Rudolf Staffel. In 1933, Black set up his first studio in a streetcar, behind the Witte Museum, in San Antonio. He taught ceramics classes for children as part of the Witte Museum's series of children's classes. In the late 1930s, Black became involved with the Works Progress Administration (WPA). During the 1940s and 1950s, his work began to be exhibited in major venues, and in 1953, his groundbreaking work on copper-red glazes was featured the January issue of Ceramics Monthly. Harding Black is best known for his glaze research, primarily in ancient Chinese and Scandinavian glazes. He kept meticulous records of his glaze tests, and it is possible to match the glaze codes found on many of his ceramic test pieces to glaze formulas recorded in his notebooks. As noted in the 1998 exhibition catalog from the University of Dallas, “His discovery of methods which duplicate the elusive chun, flambe, oxblood, and oilspot glazes of ancient China’s Ming and [Song] dynasties fundamentally altered the landscape of contemporary American ceramics.” In 1989 Harding Black became acquainted with Baylor University ceramist Paul McCoy. The two artists developed a friendship that lasted the rest of Black's life.
In 1995, Harding Black gave Baylor University his extensive collection of glaze research, in the form of thousands of test tiles, vases, and bowls, as well as volumes of glaze formulas and related notes. Harding Black’s work continued to be exhibited and published into the early 2000s, including a retrospective at Baylor University in 1995. Harding Black died of respiratory failure on May 2, 2004.
Subgroup I. Personal Papers contains materials created or collected by Harding Black, including his glaze code formulae, firing logs, as well as correspondence and printed publications. The first 3 boxes of the subgroup have been digitized due to the fragile nature of the materials and are also available through the Baylor University Libraries Digital Collections.
Subgroup II. Collected Papers contains materials created or collected by Baylor University and avid Harding Black collectors. The subgroup includes substantial information about Baylor University Professor Paul McCoy's work on the Harding Black Collection and Archive, including correspondence with collectors, plans for development dinners, and proposals for possible use of the collection. The end of the subseries includes photographs of Harding Black's work and of Harding Black himself working in his San Antonio studio. There are also multiple oral histories conducted by Paul McCoy with Harding Black and other collectors.
Judge Joseph Hickman Aynesworth (1874-1940) was born on November 11, 1874, in Williamson, Texas, to George L. Aynesworth and Sarah Ellen Hickman. Joseph Hickman Aynesworth was an attorney and judge. He married Mary Alice Timmons on December 17, 1895. Together, they had nine children.
Aynesworth passed away on July 25, 1940, in McLennan County. He is buried in Childress, Texas.
The first series of photographs is composed of photographs of the Aynesworth family. All of the photographs have handwritten notes on the back identifying the subject of the photograph. Only one photograph is dated, circa 1935. The other photographs are presumed to be from a similar time period, with a few possibly dating to earlier 1900's. This series is in good condition.
The second series, Scrapbook, contains a scrapbook filled with clippings. Some of these clippings were written by Joseph Hickman Aynesworth. They discuss local and Texas history. This series is in average condition, with some acid deterioration, however, the scrapbook has kept the clippings well-preserved. All of these clippings date from 1924-1936.
The Texas Collection, a Baylor University special library, participated in the McGregor Plan from 1936-1942. As one of a very select group of participants in the McGregor Plan, the story of Baylor's involvement in the plan is also the story of the McGregor Plan itself. Tracy W. McGregor was a multi-millionaire who collected rare Americana as a hobby. In 1933, he desired to unite his humanitarian efforts with his love of books and the result was the McGregor Plan, officially known as the "McGregor Plan for the Encouragement of Book Collecting by American College Libraries." Under the supervision of the American Historical Association’s Committee on Americana for College Libraries, McGregor selected and bought books identified as important and sold them at cost to libraries who needed help in expanding their rare book holdings. Universities and colleges applied to be accepted by the McGregor Plan and had to meet several stipulations. They could not be near a university with a significant holding of Americana or in a large metropolitan area. The university or college also had to be willing to match the McGregor Fund’s (the group responsible for the financial side of McGregor’s estate) annual donation of $500 through outside donations and alumni support, combining for a total of $1,000 to be spent annually on rare Americana. The books acquired through the McGregor Plan had to be marked as rare books and could not be defaced in any way. Baylor University’s Texas Collection was one of fifteen libraries accepted to the program by 1936. McGregor died unexpectedly on 1936 May 6, but his plan continued under the leadership of Randolph G. Adams. The headquarters of the plan transferred from Washington D.C. to the Clements Library at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The plan flourished until the economic strain of World War II resulted in a vote for the plan’s suspension in November 1942. After the end of the war, the plan did not receive enough support from the McGregor Fund’s trustees to restart and the remainder of Mr. McGregor’s collection was liquidated among the participating libraries.
The series contains letters exchanged between the representatives of the McGregor Plan and librarians at the Texas Collection. The series is in good condition.
This series contains a list of all the books in the Texas Collection purchased through the McGregor Plan. The series is in good condition.
Donald I. Moore (1910-1998) was born in Farnhamville, Iowa, on 1910 April 11. He graduated from North Des Moines (Iowa) High School; attended Drake University for one year; received his B.A. degree from Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, in 1932, and his M.A. degree from Colorado State College of Education in 1940. After directing high school bands in Iowa at Charles City and Britt, he moved to Dallas, Texas, where he directed school bands and the all-city orchestra until he was named Director of Bands at Colorado State College of Education in January 1941. Moore served in the U.S. Navy from 1942 to 1945. After his service, he completed his Ed.D. degree at the University of Michigan, and then went to New York City for a year as director of bands at both the Juilliard School of Music and Columbia University. In September 1948, he became Director of Bands at Baylor University. Moore was a Professor of Music and Director Emeritus of Bands at Baylor, where he directed the Golden Wave Band from 1948 to 1969. During Moore’s 20-year tenure, the band accompanied the football team to bowl appearances, represented Baylor at Baptist meetings around the world and grew to 135 members, more than tripling the size of the original Golden Wave Band. While at Baylor, Moore also became nationally recognized as a composer, conductor, clinician, and adjudicator of bands throughout the United States. Over thirty of his compositions have been published, and some of his concert marches are played by bands all over the world. The best known of these are: "Marcho Poco," "Ides of March," "Dawn of Peace," "March Forth," and "Rise and Shine." This series contains letters from Donald Moore to his wife, Norma Moore, during his service in World War II, letters involving his work as band director of the Baylor University Golden Wave Band, and his letters to colleagues and music production companies. The series is in good condition. The letters from WWII are all scans of the original letters and are in pristine condition. The other correspondence in the series is original and the majority have some tears and creases.
This series contains marching formations, Moore's director notebooks, roll call, posters, and flyers from Moore's tenure as director of the Golden Wave Band. Moore was a Professor of Music and is Director Emeritus of Bands at Baylor University, where he directed the bands from 1948 to 1969.
This series is in good condition, the notebooks and marching formations have minor tears and creases. The posters and flyers for the Golden Wave Band are slightly bent and damaged on the sides and ends.
The series contains a wide variety of items: sheet music, program booklets, roll call, clippings, and notes. The majority of these focus on Moore's involvement with Baylor University, his tenure as the director of the Golden Wave Band, and his leadership and participation with various organizations, including the American Bandmasters Association and Kappa Psi, the National Honorary Band Fraternity. Moore was Grand President of Kappa Kappa Psi from 1955 to 1957. In 1969, he was given Kappa Kappa Psi's highest honor, the Distinguished Service to Music Award. The series is in good condition. The sheet music has a few rips and tears on the sides and edges. The programs, booklets, and notes are all well preserved, with minor tears and creases.
This series contains numerous film reels documenting Moore's tenure as band director of the Golden Wave Band at Baylor University. Nearly all of the tapes are labeled with dates and which football game they correspond to. The condition of the film is unknown. Some have been labeled by a prior processor and state they have color but no sound, while others are black and white.
This series contains photographs from Moore's tenure as director of the Golden Wave Band. Images depict many of his marching band formations. The photographs are in excellent condition, with no decomposition and only minor tears and creases. An oversize box of photographic slides is also included in this series. Many of the slides have titles and dates to identify them.
This series contains items from Moore's tenure as director of the Golden Wave Band at Baylor University and his participation in the fraternity Kappa Kappa Psi. It contains: Moore's director's coat, Kappa Kappa Psi pins, an award from Kappa Kappa Psi, and plaques from Baylor University and Kappa Kappa Psi. All of these items are in good condition, with minor wear and tear. The plaques are in excellent condition.
Lily McIlroy Russell (1887-1958) was born in Kerrville, Texas, on 1887 January 24. Her father, Reverend Chester A. McIlroy, moved the family to New Mexico after the death of his wife, Mary Francis Laro McIlroy. After several years of living in New Mexico, the Russell family moved to Oklahoma and eventually Waco, Texas. Lily Russell attended Baylor University where she received her bachelor and master's degrees in 1911 and 1931, respectively. Her family ties to Baylor reach back at least one or more generations, as her father attended Baylor University in Independence.
Prior to joining the faculty at Baylor as an instructor in English, she taught at Baylor Academy from 1912 to 1917. Russell taught English at Baylor for five years. On 1917 May 4 she married Junius Brownrigg Russell; they had one daughter, Mary Claudia Russell, and an unnamed son who presumably died at birth. Lily Russell and Junius Russell later divorced at an unknown date. Lily Russell moved to Oregon in 1924 December, but returned to Baylor in 1926. That same year, she became an assistant to the Dean of Women. President Pat Neff appointed her as the Dean of Women in 1931, a position she held for the next nine years. In 1940 Russell became the Director of Public Relations, and served eight years in that role. As director, she chaired the Baylor Centennial Committee. She also served as Dean of the Union Building. Outside of Baylor, she was also a member of the William Tryon Chapter of the Daughters of the Republic of Texas, the American Association of American Women, and the Waco Convention Bureau. Her final position at Baylor was as official university historian, starting in 1950. In her capacity as historian, she worked closely with Frank Burkhalter and others in the Baylor Historical Society, as they worked to preserve Baylor University history. Lily Russell died on 1958 August 21 following complications of a broken hip. She was buried in Oakwood Cemetery next to her unnamed son. Upon her death, her dream of writing a book on the history of Baylor University was carried out by Baylor employees Lois Smith Douglas Murray Strain and Sue Moore, who used her files to write Baylor at Independence. The series was created by Lily McIlroy Russell and posthumously by her secretary, Dulce Ware. It spans Russell's various positions held at Baylor University, as the bulk of the files are from 1942 to 1958. Dulce Ware continued compiling these alumni files following Russell's death in 1958, causing many of the files to date up to the late 1960s. The files cover many of the academic areas and professions that Baylor University offers to its graduates. The majority of the files are focused on missionaries from Baylor, as Russell was asked to collect artifacts from missionaries for the newly-built Tidwell Bible Building, write a book on vocations, and ask former Volunteer Band members to submit their work to a publication for the centennial commemoration of the Volunteer Band. Russell filed her alumni files by broad category title, often by a more specific subcategory as well, and then the name of the subject file. These original file titles have been kept to preserve Russell's original intent. Often extra information, such as the location of a missionary, was also written on the file title. This information has now been included in the file itself. This series is in good condition, with minor rips and tears.
This series contains materials on both Russell's professional life and personal life. Often, these two consistently intermingled, for her personal life greatly involved her duties at Baylor and her friends and colleagues from Baylor. Russell's correspondence begins before her initial assignment at Baylor as Assistant Dean of Women in 1929 and continues past her death in 1958. It contains letters from her friends, family members, colleagues, and several presidents of Baylor University. Russell's correspondence to Baylor alumni documents the university's growth and development through the years. She consistently describes life on campus, new construction, capital campaigns, and the university's enrollment numbers. This series is in good condition. Russell's correspondence has minor rips and tears.
The series of Literary Productions is composed of writings Russell produced for Baylor University and those she wrote for personal enjoyment. While Russell's death prevented her finishing the history of Baylor University, several of her initial chapters and many of her notes are included in this series. All of her literary productions are undated. This series is in good condition, with minor rips and tears.
The series contains Russell's personal collected materials, including W.M.U. programs, address lists, several Bibles, a bound copy of her master's thesis, datebooks, calendars, and most importantly, her collected notes and correspondence on Henry Lee Graves, the first president of Baylor University. This series is in good condition, except for the Bibles which are in poor condition. One is missing a front cover and the leather binding and covers are on others are flaking off.
The series contains photographs and tintypes. The photographs are of Russell's family, the Claypool family, and friends. There are two types of tintypes in this series. One group of tintypes is loose and have been removed from their original frames. The group of tintypes are set in decorative frames and plush-box holders. These tintypes were given to Russell by Jack Standard and believed to be Baylor family members. Some of the loose tintypes have been damaged by scratches and wear and tear due to age. The tintypes in the decorative frames are in excellent condition. The other photographs in this series are in good condition, with minor creases and tears on the edges of the photographs.
Rosemyrtle McLaughlin worked in the Order and Traffic office of the General Tire and Rubber Company in Waco. It is not known when she began working there or how long she worked.
The General Tire and Rubber series includes administrative files and photographs collected from the General Tire Order and Traffic office.
The Kansas City-Mexico-Orient Railroad was the vision of Arthur Stilwell, a businessman and railroad tycoon, who wanted to connect the central portion of the United States to the vast markets of the Pacific Ocean. Operating from Kansas City, Stilwell sought to build tracks to Topolobampo, Mexico, the closest port city situated on the Pacific Ocean. The railroad faced major challenges in its construction with three vast mountain ranges, a local Indian tribe (the Yaqui), and complications from the international nature of the venture to consider. Judge C. E. Casebier, a resident of Fort Stockton, Texas, and the author of the essay found in this collection, wrote a brief historical background of the railroad and its significance to Pecos County. In 1923, when officials threatened to abandon the arm of the railroad that connected to Fort Stockton, Casebier and a few other ambassadors of the community traveled to Washington, D.C. where they implored President Calvin Coolidge to reconsider and advocated for the appointment of Walter Marshall William Splawn as a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Splawn would go on to serve two years on the Texas Railroad Commission and nineteen years on the Interstate Commerce Commission. The fortunes of the Kansas City-Mexico-Orient Railroad improved in the late 1920 as the discovery of oil fields in West Texas continued to fuel development and economic growth. In 1928, the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe Railway purchased the Kansas City-Mexico-Orient Railroad.
Series I. Literary Productions contains an essay by Judge C.E. Casebier of Fort Stockton, Texas. The work recounts Casebier's trip to Washington, D.C. in 1923 to advocate for the Kansas City-Mexico-Orient Railroad, and reveals some of the high-ranking government individuals he met along the way.
The Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway was chartered on 1873 May 28. The owners designed the railroad with the intention of promoting trade between the port of Galveston and the Texas interior by ultimately by-passing the city of Houston. Santa Fe, New Mexico, as the name suggests, was the railroad's western terminal. Many of the inhabitants of Central Texas wanted railroads to pass through their towns for the potential of increased commerce and growth; the people of Belton were no exception. The citizens of Bell County hoped to attract the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway to Belton. The railroad agreed on the condition that Bell County raise $75,000 for the project. Local citizen Orville Thomas (O.T.) Tyler vowed to donate $1,000 and a portion of his land holdings near Belton to jump-start the project. His attorney, George W. Tyler, was a famous lawyer, Texas Senator (1888-1892), and local historian. He drafted the deed. The deed itself was eventually cancelled as the railroad executives opted instead to build a track from Temple to Valley Mills in 1881. However, Belton was eventually connected to the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway in 1882 with track leading to Lampasas.
The Legal Documents series contains a single land deed drafted by O.T. Tyler and his attorney George W. Tyler. O.T. Tyler vowed to donate money and land to the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway if it were to connect their rail lines to Belton. The deed, dated 1880, was eventually cancelled and the railway was built to incorporate Temple instead.
 Nora Elizabeth Potter Sims was born on 1914 November 14 to Samuel Potter and Margaret Ava Orr in Brandon, Texas. She had five siblings all of whom died before her except her sister Mable. After receiving her B.S. degree in Elementary Education from Texas Tech College, she taught at New Deal Consolidated School in New Deal, Texas, until 1943, when she became an instructor at Amarillo Air Base, teaching pilots how to repair electrical systems on B-17s and B-29s. In 1953, she completed her Master of Education degree at West Texas State College in Canyon, Texas. Prior to her retirement in 1971, she was a Jr. High teacher with Phillips Independent School District. Nora Potter Sims was married to Myrle Andrew Sims on 1949 August 27. They were the first couple to be married in the First Presbyterian Church of Borger. She was a member of the Texas Education Association and National Education Association and Texas Retired Teachers Association. Sims was also a member of #811 Order of the Eastern Star, Home Demonstration Club, and Hutchinson County Retired Teachers Association. Nora Elizabeth Potter Sims passed away on 2012 September 2.
These papers pertain to Nora Potter Sim's life. The bulk of the materials fall between 1943 and 1971 dealing primarily with her employment as an instructor at the Amarillo Air Base and as a teacher for the Phillips Independent School District. There are also a variety of legal documents, diaries, photographs, and 3-D objects. The collection is in overall good condition.
Roy Elmer Beck, the son of William Franklin Beck and Amanda Louise Harp, was born in Midlothian, Texas, on 1885 June 25. He married Elizabeth Lethella Howell on 1919 December 23 and together they had one daughter named Hester Mae Beck Willis. For 35 years of their marriage, the Becks lived in Waco, Texas. Roy found steady employment as a conductor for the Texas Electric Railway Company. Also known as the “Interurban,” this company was formed in 1917 to connect some of the larger cities of Central Texas and to facilitate the movement of passengers and goods throughout the region. Beck worked for the railway for 28 years, traveling primarily between Dallas and Waco. Many of the materials found in this collection originated from Roy's experiences working for the railroad. Roy Elmer Beck passed away on 1944 August 25. He, along with his wife Elizabeth, were buried in Oakwood Cemetery. Due to the advent of the automobile industry and the interstate highway system, the Texas Electric Railway Company began to face severe financial struggles. Executives decided to cease streetcar operations in Waco by the winter of 1948.
Series I. Correspondence consists of letters sent by the Texas Electric Railway Company to their employees. These deal primarily with income and Social Security tax deductions.
Series II. Financial Documents contains receipts procured by Roy Elmer Beck and his wife Elizabeth. Most of the items relate to household utilities such as power, gas, and water. There is also a poll tax receipt that Elizabeth received from an election in McLennan County in 1946.
Series III. Literary Productions comprises the bulk of the collection. Its materials deal primarily with Roy Beck's employment at the Texas Electric Railway Company. The series also contains Roy Beck's Selective Service registration card from a local McLennan County draft board in 1918.
Aaron Douglas Estes (1820-1864) was born on 1820 May 10 to Hiram M. Estes (1797-1854) and Lucy Anna Richardson Estes (1799-1845) in Franklin County, Tennessee. He married Elizabeth Lucretia Wilson Estes, originally from Alabama, in Morgan County, Missouri, in 1838. They came to Texas in 1840, and settled in McLennan county, though they later moved close to Hillsboro in Hill County. They had nine children together. When the Civil War came, Aaron Estes enlisted into Company B, 10th Texas Infantry, under Colonel Allison Nelson. The regiment was captured at Arkansas Post on 1863 January 11. Estes would have been imprisoned with the rest of his regiment for a time in Camp Douglas, Chicago, a Union prisoner of war camp, until they were exchanged and sent south. After being exchanged, the regiment was consolidated with the 6th Texas Infantry and the 15th Texas Cavalry (dismounted) and assigned to Cleburne's division, Army of Tennessee. Estes and his unit participated in battles at Chickamauga and Chattanooga and the Atlanta Campaign. Aaron Estes was killed in the Battle of Jonesborough on 1864 August 31, the final battle of the Atlanta Campaign.
This series contains letters to and from Aaron Estes, a Confederate soldier during the Civil War. Also included are muster rolls and indexes of cemeteries. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains financial documents, programs from an event at a cemetery, and a hair album. This series is in average condition.
The railroad proved to be integral to the development and urbanization of Central Texas, particularly in the case of Waco. Interurban lines were established in Dallas, Waco, and other cites to aid the flow of commercial goods and passengers. In 1917, the Texas Electric Railway Company was formed through a merging of the Southern Traction and Texas Traction Companies. Following World War II, with the rise in automobile sales and the creation of the interstate highway system, railroads no longer served as the primary means of public transportation. On December 31, 1948, the Texas Electric Railway Company ceased streetcar operations in Waco. Gordon Zahorik, the creator of this collection, was an avid photographer and train enthusiast. A veteran of the U.S. Army, Zahorik served during World War II from 1943 to 1946. He resided in the Robinson area and was vocal about Waco's need for a strong public transportation system. He passed away in Lorena, Texas, at the age of 75 on April 16, 2000.
The Literary Productions series is comprised of two items. The newspaper clipping by Alan Hunt provides some biographical information about Gordon Zahorik, the creator of the collection. The time card, produced by the Texas Electric Railway Company, details train arrivals and departures for the Dallas-Denison and Dallas-Waco lines in 1948. The materials in this series are in excellent condition.
Series II. Photographic Materials contains approximately 45 photographs of streetcars operating on the Texas Electric Railway from 1939 to 1947. The photographs have been arranged according to the terminal from which the cars were operating including Dallas, Waco, and Hillsboro. The photographs in this series are in excellent condition.
Prior to 1870, there was not a single bridge that spanned the Brazos River for a nearly 800-mile stretch of Central Texas. Cattle drivers could use the Chisholm Trail to ford the river, but attempting to ford brought its own risks, particularly with the Brazos River’s tendency to flood.
Thus it was, in 1866, when prominent Waco citizens led by Joseph Warren Speight approached the Texas State Legislature for assistance constructing a bridge in Waco. The Texas State Legislature saw the need for such a structure and granted a charter for the Waco Bridge Company on November 1, 1866. The company, in effect, held a monopoly, for no competing bridge could be constructed within 5 miles of Waco for 25 years. A sum of $25,000 was set aside for the construction of a steel suspension bridge, but the estimated costs of the project rose to approximately $140,000. Construction of the bridge commenced in 1868. John Roebling and Son, an eastern-U.S. company famous for its construction of New York City’s Brooklyn Bridge, provided some of the steel components for the 475-foot structure. John T. Flint was appointed the first president of the Waco Bridge Company; his local banking house partner David Towles Chamberlin was the first treasurer. The Waco Suspension Bridge was officially opened on 1870 January 7. At the time, it was the longest suspension bridge west of the Mississippi River. The bridge had an immediate impact on Waco’s cattle and cotton trade. However, citizens quickly became resentful of the tolls charged for passage of the bridge. Although the U.S. Fifth District Court sided with the Waco Bridge Company, upholding the terms of its charter, the company decided to sell the bridge to McLennan County for $75,000 in 1889. The county, in turn, sold the bridge to the city of Waco for $1 with the understanding that the city would cover maintenance costs and remove all tolls. With many modifications and repairs through the years, the bridge still stands today as a landmark of Waco and Central Texas.
Series I. Legal Documents contains two booklets. The first is a record of testimony given in the case of the Waco Bridge Company v. Lee Slaughter. The primary cause of tension between the Waco Bridge Company and the citizens of Waco was the tolls charged for passage of the Suspension Bridge. This was ultimately resolved in 1889 when the Waco Bridge Company sold the bridge to McLennan County.
Series II. Financial Documents contains a wide variety of materials pertaining to the Waco Bridge Company. These include balance sheets, receipts for construction supplies, blank envelopes, bulk correspondence to be mailed to shareholders, and an oversized ledger kept by treasurers D.T.
Chamberlin and William L. Prather from 1868 to 1885.
Series III. Literary Productions is the largest series in the collection. It contains local newspaper clippings about the Suspension Bridge, books of organizational minutes that span most of the Waco Bridge Company's existence, sample tickets from the 1880's, and an article about the construction company that supplied many of the steel components for the Waco Suspension Bridge.
The Belton-Temple Traction Company built one of the earliest interurban railways in Texas when it constructed a 13-mile line between the two towns in 1904-1905. Belton was the county seat of Bell County and by the 1880's had become a regional hub for the cotton trade. Temple, which had been founded in 1881 to serve the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway, had quickly surpassed Belton in population and offered opportunities for increased economic growth. The citizens of Belton also sought to expand their markets southward via the railroad. At the turn of the century, Williamson County was the second largest producer of cotton in Texas. Albert Bentley and other leading businessmen surveyed land for a potential rail line to the south in 1913. In 1918, the Belton-Temple Traction Company was re-organized as the Southwestern Traction Company with Albert Bentley as its president. Unfortunately, improved roadways and the rise of the automobile industry led to the gradual decline of the interurban railways in Texas. Although citizens of Belton were able to file a Writ of Injunction through the courts to stop the destruction of the Belton-Temple Interurban line in 1918, service was ultimately terminated by the Southwestern Traction Company in 1926. By 1948, virtually all Texas interurban railways had ceased operations.
This series contains two legal documents involving the railroad industry and Belton. The first is a contractual agreement made in 1913 between Albert F. Bentley and the citizens of Belton. Bentley and several local businessmen spearheaded the effort to raise funds for a survey of a potential rail line between Belton and Williamson County to the south. The second document is a Writ of Injunction filed by the citizens of Belton in October 1918 to stop the destruction of the Belton-Temple Interurban line. Judge F.H. Spann ordered the defendants, primarily individuals from Temple, not to destroy the track. The materials in this series are in average condition.
This series contains a single, undated newspaper clipping. The article pertains to Albert Bentley, President of the Southwestern Traction Company, and his desire to build a railroad between Dallas and Houston that would incorporate the line between Temple and Belton, and update the tracks between Temple and Marlin.
The 1880’s brought about significant growth in Central Texas, particularly in Belton. Initially settled in the years of the Texas Republic, Belton had become a regional hub for the trade of agricultural products, especially cotton. The arrival of the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railroad, the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad, and Baylor Female College (now the University of Mary Hardin-Baylor), further stimulated economic development. In 1895, the Belton and Northeastern Railway Company was organized by a group of local businessmen, including President George C. Pendleton. The railroad was designed to connect Belton to McGregor in the north. This twenty-eight mile track would open Belton’s markets up to the Cotton Belt Railway, formally designated the St. Louis Southwestern Railway. The project was overcome by financial hardships from the start. Estimates from an engineer in Galveston, Texas, suggested the railroad would cost $18,398.33 per mile of track for a sum total of $514,153.39. The company's failure to subscribe the $336,000 bond issue and the Cotton Belt Railway's inability to assist the endeavor financially resulted in the company's dissolution by 1899.
Series I. Correspondence consists of letters written to and by the President of the Belton and Northeastern Railway Company, George C. Pendleton. Pendleton corresponded to an engineer in Galveston named M.W. Wambaugh who advised Pendleton on the estimated costs of building the railroad. Some of the letters Pendleton wrote to the Railroad Commission of Texas requesting the authority to issue bonds are also located in this series.
Series II. Financial Documents contains a wide array of materials from the Belton and Northeastern Railway Company including franchise tax receipts, a directory of stockholders, notes, and pledge sheets.
Annie Jenkins Sallee was born on 1877 February 28 in Waco, Texas, the daughter of Judge Warwick Hoxey and Jessie Speight Jenkins. She received her B. S. degree with honors at Baylor University in 1897 and her master's degree from Baylor in 1899, being the first woman from Baylor to earn a master's degree. After teaching one year at Moody Bible Institute and two years at Decatur Baptist College, she attended the Baptist Missionary Training School in Chicago, graduating in 1905. This prepared her for her future career as a Southern Baptist Convention missionary to China. While still in Texas Annie Jenkins met William Eugene Sallee, another missionary to China, whom she married on 1906 September 18 in China. Dr. Sallee was educated at Georgetown College and Rochester Theological Seminary. Dr. and Mrs. Sallee were both pioneers of the interior mission field in China, where Mrs. Sallee organized an "industrial school" for women. In 1930 they returned to the United States, when Dr. Sallee became home secretary of the Southern Baptist Foreign Missionary Board. After her husband's death in 1931, Mrs. Sallee wrote his biography, Christ's Ambassador, which was followed by a biography of her father and a biography on the lives of missionaries in China. She returned to China in 1935 as a missionary to Kaifeng. During World War II, she was imprisoned by the Japanese for nine months. Returning to the United States in August 1943, she taught Sunday School at First Baptist Church of Waco, where she was a member. Annie Jenkins Sallee passed away on 1967 March 1.
This series contains literary work produced by Annie Jenkins Sallee as well as various collected materials and biographical information. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains photographs from various times and locations in the United States and China. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains scrapbooks on various topics and span throughout most of Annie Jenkins Sallee's life. This series is in average condition.
This series contains correspondence from Annie Jenkins Sallee, William Eugene Sallee, extended family members, and the Baptist Foreign Mission Board. This series is in good condition.
The Waco Conference of Christians and Jews (known as The Greater Waco Interfaith Conference as of 2002 September) was first proposed in a 1980 February meeting hosted by Dr. Gary Cook, who would become the organization's first president. Mrs. Payton Kolb of the Arkansas Conference of Christians and Jews challenged those present at the meeting to organize a Conference of Christians and Jews in the Waco area. Dr. Cook took the challenge and invited the community to attend a discussion about the formation of a Waco chapter of the conference, prompting their first official meeting on 1980 March 6. Their first sponsored event was a Holocaust remembrance worship service in 1980 September at Baylor University. Since then, the organization has sponsored and created several programs and events centered in the Waco area. The first Annual Dinner was created in 1981 as a fundraiser for the organization. The honorary chairperson is recognized at this annual dinner, and the Humanitarian and Family of the Year awards are presented. The organization also held seminars on various topics including the dangers of the Klu Klux Klan (with speech given by Leon Jaworski), the rise of Neo-Nazism, the rights of religious liberties, and institutional racism. Another prominent annual event established in 1983 was the "Tour of Understanding" which invited board members and members of the community to visit local places of worship for dialogue. In order to reach the maximum number of people in the Waco area with their message, the organization changed its name to The Greater Waco Interfaith Conference in September 2002. This change came with the addition of new board members representing Islam, the Hindu religion, and the Baha'i Faith. The organization continues to operate.
 This series contains speech transcripts, newspaper clippings, photographs, and film negatives from various events sponsored by the organization, mostly taking place during the late 1980s. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains documents, minutes, bylaws, financial records, memos, recommendations, correspondences, history documents, and award information dating from the organization's creation in 1980 to meetings and events from the early 1990's. This series is in excellent condition.
In 1909, entrepreneurs and investors came together to establish the Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company. These three towns were the county seats of McLennan, Bell, and Williamson Counties, respectively, and were all influential markets in the Central Texas cotton trade at the turn of the century. Backers of the newly chartered railway company sought to build a railroad that would connect Waco to Georgetown in the south with stops at Belton, Ritchie, Moody, Salado, Prairie Dale, and Corn Hill. The railroad was designed to stretch an estimated seventy-five miles with the intention of completely by-passing the town of Temple. Proposals to use portions of the Cotton Belt Railroad to shorten the length of the new railroad were also entertained. Engineer M.D. Parlin, under the mandate of the Steering Committee, presented the Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company with estimates for construction. Upon considering a number of factors, Parlin concluded that the railroad would cost approximately $14,250 per mile of track. Efforts to raise the necessary $75,000 for start-up costs failed, however, and the railroad was subsequently abandoned.
The Correspondence Series consists of letters pertaining to the initial survey and gathering of information conducted by the Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company. Various correspondents, including Judge G.M. Felts, exchanged letters and reports discussing the financial and logistical aspects of the railroad.
The Financial Documents Series contains a few undated, unidentified balance sheets listing the towns' proposed contributions to the railroad. There are also rosters of some individuals who had been willing to purchase stock in the Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company.
Series III. Literary Productions contains a variety of materials including the 1909 Articles of Incorporation drafted for the Waco, Belton, and Georgetown Railway Company. Clippings from the Waco Daily Times-Herald detail the initial progress of the company, particularly the early successes and support it enjoyed among the citizens of Waco. There is also a rough, hand-drawn sketch of a map detailing the proposed routes and stops of the railroad.
The Belton-Temple Traction Company built one of the earliest interurban railways in Texas when it constructed a 13-mile line between the two towns in 1904-1905. Belton is the county seat of Bell County and by the 1880's was a regional hub for the cotton trade. Temple, founded in 1881 to serve the Gulf, Colorado, and Santa Fe Railway, had quickly surpassed Belton in population and offered opportunities for increased economic growth. In 1918, the Belton-Temple Traction Company was reorganized as the Southwestern Traction Company with Albert Bentley as its president.
However, improved roadways and the rise of the automobile industry led to the gradual decline of the interurban railways in Texas. Although citizens of Belton were able to file a Writ of Injunction through the courts to stop the destruction of the Belton-Temple Interurban line in 1918, service was ultimately terminated by the Southwestern Traction Company in 1926. By 1948, virtually all Texas interurban railways had ceased operations.
Series I. Correspondence pertains to Bell County transportation in the 1920's, particularly in Belton. The City Attorney of Belton had requested information from officials in Fort Worth in regards to how the latter had organized their city bus lines and how these adhered to various local and state ordinances.
Series II. Legal Documents is the largest series in the collection. The materials deal primarily with a petition filed by citizens of Belton in 1918 in an effort to stop the new owners of the Southwestern Traction Company from decommissioning and destroying the line between Belton and Temple.
The series contains notices, court orders, summons, and the original petition. The series also contains a document from a lawsuit filed by the Trinity Portland Cement Company against the Southwestern Traction Company.
The advent of the railroad marked a significant development in Texas history. As more and more railroads were constructed, sparsely populated regions of Texas were opened to urban markets across the United States. Many towns, including Lawrence, Texas, sprang up in direct response to the railroad. The Texas and Pacific Railway Company was particularly active during the 1870's. As its name suggests, this railroad was designed to connect cities in eastern Texas to the Pacific Ocean. In 1872, the Texas and Pacific Railway Company completed a line in what is now Kaufman County.
Investors saw great potential for the lands around the growing Dallas area. One such group, the Texas Colony Association, purchased significant tracts of land thirty miles to the east of Dallas. The Texas Colony Association established two main offices for its operations: one in Chicago, Illinois, headed by John A. Francis and the other in Austin, Texas, led by Colonel J. W. Lawrence. The Texas Colony Association encouraged Americans from across the country to move to Texas for its excellent climate, fertile soil, and abundant natural resources. The broadside that comprises this collection serves as a testament to the marketing angle that investors implemented. Membership in the association cost $15 and secured a 25’ by 125’ lot in the newly established town of Lawrence. While the upstart town did have its own post office by 1874 along with corn and grist mills, Lawrence did not live up to the investors' lofty expectations, and has historically been home to only a few hundred residents.
Series I. Literary Productions, the only series in this collection, is comprised of a single broadside produced by the Texas Colony Association in the mid-1870's. This document was part of a concentrated effort by investors to persuade Americans to move to Kaufman County, Texas after the arrival of the Texas and Pacific Railroad in 1872.
Tommy West worked for the Fort Worth Press, West wrote a Page 1 column that appeared daily.
This series contains literary articles written by Tommy West, as well as biographical notes from those that knew him. This series is in good condition.
Born on 1929 November 19, James Lee Barrett served in the United States Marine Corps before becoming a screenwriter. Many of Barrett’s films were western- or military-related, and his better known works included The Greatest Story Ever Told (1965). Many films produced from Barrett’s screenplays featured well-known actors, including James Stewart, John Wayne, and Dean Martin. Barrett remained active from the late 1950s until shortly before his death on 1989 October 15.
This series contains a screenplay used in the production of the 1968 film Bandolero!. This series is in good condition.
Frederick Peabody Leavenworth was born in 1833 to Abner Johnson Leavenworth (1803-1869) of Petersburg, Virginia. At the time of his enlistment in the Confederate army in 1862, F.P. Leavenworth was in Van Buren, Arkansas. Appointed as captain in the Ordnance Department of the Trans-Mississippi in 1863, Leavenworth serves as commander of the Confederate arsenal in Shreveport, Louisiana, 1863-1864. At that time, Shreveport was headquarters of the Trans-Mississippi Department and a major military supply depot for Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Missouri. After the fall of Shreveport, Leavenworth moved to Jefferson, Texas, to command the rapidly expanding ordnance supply depot there. He was there to surrender his facility at the end of the Civil War in 1865. After the war, he became an engineer in charge of materials for the Marshall Railroad. He and his wife Eliza Leavenworth had one daughter, Hester Leavenworth.
This series contains the order book of F.P. Leavenworth, ordnance officer in the Confederate army. It contains various orders and lists pertaining to running the ordnance complex at Shreveport, Louisiana, and Jefferson, Texas.
Betty Jean Wilke Cox was born on 1928 September 25 in Fort Worth, Texas to L.A. Wilke and Viola Helen Anderson Wilke. L.A. Wilke was a respected journalist and Texas newspaper editor who deeply influenced his daughter's future career choices. In 1944, Betty Cox graduated from Gainesville High School in Gainesville, Texas. She then attended Texas Woman's University in Denton, Texas, from which she received her bachelor's and master's degrees. After graduating, she initiated her writing career as a newspaper reporter for the Sweetwater Reporter in the late 1940's.
Later, she taught briefly in Dallas and Del Valle, Texas, before pursuing the library science field. Cox worked as a librarian at the Austin Public Library, the Texas State Library, the Texas A&M University Special Collections Library, and the Ocotillo Branch Library in Phoenix, Arizona. Following her retirement, Cox founded Woodburner Press, which she ran in conjunction with her editing business, Hudman Editing Service in Austin, Texas. Through Woodburner Press, she published fourteen of her client's books, several of which are housed in The Texas Collection. Her own book, Liz Carpenter: Girl from Salado, was published in 1994 by Eakin Press. Betty passed away on 2006 August 28 in Austin, Texas.
The bulk of this series contains correspondence, manuscripts, and research materials for several of Cox's clients. These items are in the first subseries, "Clients." The second and final subseries, "Other," houses papers pertaining to the daily operations of Hudman Editing Service and Woodburner Press such as invoices, newsletters, service descriptions, and sales tax permits. This series is in good condition.
This series is comprised of two subseries. The first, "Betty Cox's Work," includes manuscripts, notes, research material, clippings, and correspondence related to a variety of Cox's creative works such as her book Assembly of Suspects (please note that Chapter 25 is missing from the collection). "Other," the second subseries, houses manuscripts for creative works not concretely attributable to Cox, or by other authors altogether. This series is in good condition.
The third series, Personal Materials, provides an excellent overview of Cox's life. It includes materials pertaining to her education, employment history, medical situations, finances, and her passing in 2006. It also has photographs, notes, cards, and a memoir. The dates for this series range from 1896-2007, but the bulk of the material falls between 1944 to 2006. This series is in good condition.
This series is composed of correspondence, cards, and photographs related to several of Cox's family members such as her granddaughter, Hallie Cox, and her sister, Helen Wynn. However, the majority of the series contains materials pertaining to her son, Mike Cox.
This final series is a collection of research materials, including some correspondence, for a variety of subjects. None of the original folders specified what the research was for. This series is in good condition.
Born in 1895, Rose Franken spent her early life in Gainesville, Texas. At the age of twelve, however, Franken’s parents separated and she moved with her mother and siblings to New York City. There she completed her education, married, and began writing novels while raising her three children. Franken produced from these novels a number of successful theater productions and motion pictures, including several which depicted the well-known character of Claudia Naughton, a young housewife. Franken’s writings frequently used simple domestic situations to offer broad social commentary. Franken remained an active writer into the 1960s, and died in Arizona in 1988.
This series contains two screenplays and two synopses written by Rose Franken. The series is in good condition.
Born in 1900, Gerald Drayson Adams wrote film stories and screenplays from the 1940s to the 1960s. He specialized in western movies and television shows, most of which are lesser known, but ended his career by writing stories for two notable films featuring Elvis Presley: Harum Scarum. Adams died in 1988.
This series contains materials relating to the production of the 1954 film Three Young Texans. This series is in good condition.
Home Improvement. Natalie Portman, an up-and-coming star at the time, played the lead role in the film alongside actresses Ashley Judd and Joan Cusack. The screenplay was given to Baylor University by director Matt Williams as a gesture of appreciation. On 1999 August 16 the production crew filmed scenes at various locations across Baylor University's campus including Pat Neff Hall and Armstrong Browning Library. Due to its resemblance to prestigious East Coast campuses, Baylor University served as a fictional college campus in Maine. Many Baylor students volunteered as extras for the film.
Series I. Literary Productions consists of a single, pre-production screenplay for the 2000 film Where the Heart Is. This copy has been autographed by the director, Matt Williams, as well as lead actress Natalie Portman. The materials are in excellent condition.
 The San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company was chartered on 1884 August 28. The railroad from San Antonio to Aransas Bay, which covered a distance of 135 miles, was designed to connect San Antonio to a large, deep-water port other than Galveston. The railroad experienced significant growth during the late 1880s, including a line from Yoakum to Waco. By 1891, the railroad boasted 688 miles of track within the state of Texas. Due to various lawsuits and accidents, however, the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company went into receivership in 1890 July. The Southern Pacific Railroad attempted to buy control of its competitor but was sued by the Texas Railroad Commission in 1903 for attempting to own “parallel and competing lines.” By 1925, the Southern Pacific Railroad was permitted to buy the SA&AP outright. J.O.B.
Johnson, the creator and donor of this collection, spent many years collecting materials pertaining to the history of the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company. John Oscar Birgen (J.O.B.) Johnson was born in Travis County, Texas on April 18, 1911. At the age of 25, Johnson moved to Waco where he became a machinist for the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad. He was also a railroad enthusiast, collecting vast amounts of personal research and serving with various historical societies including the Central Texas Chapter of the National Railway Historical Society. Johnson passed away in Waco in 1997.
Series I. Annual Reports is the largest series in the collection. It consists exclusively of annual reports produced by the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company between 1891 and 1933. Some of the annual reports are more generic, but the bulk of the materials are copies of annual report packets submitted annually by the company to the Texas Railroad Commission. The latter reports contain a wide range of information about the railroad including officers, stock, equipment, incomes, expenses, and mileage.
Series II. Literary Productions contains decisions reported by the United States Interstate Commerce Commission, timetables created by the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway Company, and an article from a June 1983 issue of Waco Tribune-Herald) that President McCall's directive to shut down the play had come as a complete surprise; however, McCall's testimony to the Board of Trustees of Baylor University alleged this was not the case. McCall also asserted that when he contacted Baker about complaints of the production, Baker himself asked him to give official orders to shut down production so that his reputation in the theater world would not be tarnished. The production of the play at Baylor, cancellation of the play, and Baylor and Baker's responses to it is still controversial, over 50 years later.
Correspondence contains letters written to and from Baylor President Abner McCall. The collection is in excellent condition.
Subject Files contain newspaper clippings, opinion pieces, pamphlets, brochures, envelopes, church bulletins, and internal Baylor documents related to the controversy. This series is in excellent condition.
Jacqueline Presson was born in San Angelo, Texas, on 1922 March 3. She moved to Southern California in the early 1940s to pursue her dream of acting. She also married, but divorced after a number of years of marriage. After acting did not work out as a career, Presson transitioned to writing. She published her first novel, Lord of the Flies. Allen passed away in New York City on 2006 May 1. She was 84 years old.
Series I. Literary Productions, the only series in the collection, is comprised of two screenplays composed by Jay Presson Allen. Travels with My Aunt (1972) was the property of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. The materials in this series are in good condition, and all metal fasteners have been removed.
James Edward Grant was born in Chicago, Illinois, on 1905 July 2. At the start of his professional career, he wrote for various newspapers before moving to Southern California to work in the film industry. He directed two films, was nominated for an Academy Award in 1958 for Best Original Screenplay, and had writing credits on more than 50 films including The Comancheros (1961). Grant, who often wrote screenplays for Western films, worked on a number of occasions with legendary actor John Wayne. Grant passed away in Burbank, California, on 1966 February 19.
Series I. Literary Productions consist of a single screenplay written by James Edward Grant in 1961. The film, The Comancheros, was a Western starring John Wayne. The series is in good condition, with all metal fasteners removed.
Albert Horton Foote, Jr., more commonly known as Horton Foote, was a renowned American dramatist and screenwriter. Albert was born on 1916 March 14 in Wharton, Texas, a town 40 miles southwest of Houston. He was the eldest of three sons born to Albert Horton Foote, Sr. and Harriet Gautier Brooks. From his youth, Foote desired to become an actor. Upon graduating from high school at age sixteen, he moved to Pasadena, California, and eventually to New York City, studying method acting and performing at various theaters and playhouses. While living in New York City, Foote met Lillian Vallish whom he married on June 4, 1945. They were together until 1992, when Lillian passed away. Foote struggled to find success as a young actor. After receiving encouragement from various mentors, he ultimately found his calling in writing, excelling at dramatic plays for television and Broadway. In many of his stories, Foote focused on the theme of human suffering, and often set the action in fictional Texas towns. He enjoyed relative success throughout his lengthy career, winning two Oscars and a Pulitzer Prize. He passed away in Hartford, Connecticut, on 2009 March 4 at the age of ninety-two.
Series I. Literary Productions, the only series in this collection, consists of three scripts and two screenplays produced by esteemed Texas writer Horton Foote. The materials have been removed from their original binders and are in excellent condition.
Joe Lett Ward, Jr. was born in Waco, Texas, on 1916 November 30. Joe, Jr., the son of Joe Ward and Camille Webb, was a fifth generation Wacoan. He graduated from Waco High School in 1933 and later earned a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Texas in 1937. Following his graduation on 1937 October 25 Joe married his high school sweetheart, Martha Harrison. Ward worked as a petroleum engineer for seven years but returned to Waco after his father passed away. He assumed control of his father's business, the Joe L. Ward Company, and ran the company until he sold it in 1989. Alongside his business endeavors, Ward was involved in civic organizations throughout the Waco community. He was a co-founder of the Ridgewood Country Club in 1946. Ward and his wife Martha were one of fifteen couples to start the St. Alban’s Episcopal Church. He also served on numerous boards including those of the Waco Industrial Foundation, the Waco Business League, and the Citizens National Bank. After serving four years as a member of the Waco city council, his fellow council members appointed him the Mayor of Waco from 1959 to 1960. As reflected by the materials in this collection, Ward was also an active participant in the civil rights movement in Waco. The city boasted a relatively peaceful integration of its schools and businesses thanks in large part to a nine-man committee chaired by Ward. Operating alongside the Progressive Community Council headed by Reverend Marvin Griffin, these local leaders subtly introduced integration to the community. Ward passed away on 2009 October 29 at the age of ninety-two.
Series I. Civic Organizations, the only series in the Joe Lett Ward, Jr. papers, contains materials from three different Waco civic organizations: the Waco Association for Good Government, the Community Relations Committee, and the Human Relations Commission. The materials -- largely correspondence, minutes, and reports -- are products of Ward's membership in these organizations. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
William “Billy” Richardson White was born on his family's farm in Henderson County, Texas, on 1892 December 2. His parents, Gibson and Kittie Dorman White, died early in his childhood, and he was raised by his maternal grandmother, Missouri Ann White, in Frankston, Texas. In 1913, he entered Baylor University in Waco, but health issues forced him to transfer to Howard Payne College. It was at Howard Payne College that White met his first wife, Edna Woods. After graduating in 1917 with a Bachelor of Arts, both William and Edna White attended the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary. William served as the head of the seminary's department of missions after he received his masters and doctoral degrees. University Chancellor 1961-1963 and President Emeritus 1963-1977As Chancellor, White continued his development-focused role. After his travels, he returned to Baylor and soon began teaching religion courses. In 1970, his wife of 20 years, Catherine, died after battling cancer. White later remarried Odera Mohr and stayed with her until his death on 1977 March 24. He is buried in Oakwood Cemetery near Edna White in Waco.
This series consists of the correspondences that White received throughout his tenure at Baylor University and beyond. This series is arranged into four subseries: I. General, II. People, III. Associations and Affiliations, and IV. Baylor University. The General subseries was originally filed by the senders’ last initial, and this arrangement was kept for the collection. The subjects discussed in this series vary, but most tie back to Baylor University, religion, and politics. The People subseries are correspondence that were filed by the full name of the sender. These folders have been arranged alphabetically. The Associations and Affiliations subseries is arranged by the organization and topic in alphabetical order. It differs from the Memberships and Affiliations series because of the lack of organizational records. The Baylor University subseries consists of invitations, scholarships, and various requests made to the president of the university. This subseries is arranged alphabetically. This subseries differs from the Baylor University Records series due to the lack of institutional reports presented within the folders.
This series is a paper collection of the records from the Office of the President, Chancellor, and President Emeritus. This series is arranged alphabetically.
This series contains seven subseries: I. Datebooks, II. Literary Productions, III. Lessons and Notes, IV. Sunday School Lessons, V. Family Illness and Funerals, VI. Awards, and VII. Subject Files. The Datebook subseries contains White's journals and appointment books and is arranged chronologically. The Literary Productions subseries is the published and unpublished material from White's speeches, books, articles, and sermons. This subseries is arranged alphabetically. White wrote Sunday school lessons for the Sunday School Board based in Nashville, Tennessee beginning in 1962 until his death in 1977. The Sunday School Lessons subseries is arranged chronologically. Family Illness and Funerals document the declining health of Edna and Catherine. It also contains a sampling of condolences from the funerals of White and his wives. This series is arranged chronologically.
Awards include the various plaques and certificates given in honor of the Whites throughout their lifetime. This series is arranged alphabetically. Subject Files are folders that cover various issues and topics. They have been arranged alphabetically.
This is a paper collection of records from the various organizations where White held a membership or administrative position. Notable organizations include The Boy Scouts, Bishop College, and Mid-Western University. This subseries is arranged alphabetically.
This is a mixed media collection containing audio tapes and phonographs of sermons, most given by White. It also includes photographs taken while White was affiliated with Baylor University as well as family photographs. There are three subseries: I. Recordings, II. Visual Material, and III.
Photographs.
While many artists painted works in this collection, the most well-known three artists represented in the collection are Donald Yena, Erwin M. Hearne Jr. and Henry Arthur Mcardle. Much of the information regarding the other paintings and their artists is unknown. Erwin M.
Hearne painted " Eight Great Moments in Baptist History," of which The Texas Collection owns six paintings. Hearne was a commercial artist and Baptist Layman and was a member of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Texas. The Sunday School Board of the Southern Baptist Convention commissioned Hearne in 1963 to paint the "Eight Great Moments."Another well known artist contained in this collection is Donald Yena who was came to Texas from Illinois. He studied at the Hunter School of Commercial Art and featured the American Southwest in many of his paintings. The Texas Collection houses six paintings done by Yena of the old Spanish missions in San Antonio, Texas. The third major artist represented in The Texas Collection is Henry Arthur McArdle, who is known in Texas for his paintings on display in the Texas Capitol, including The Battle of San Jacinto. McArdle was born in Ireland and moved to America as an orphan where he went to the Maryland Institute of Art. He won the Peabody Award, a much sought after prize for art students, in 1860. McArdle served as an engineer, draughtsman, and cartographer for the Confederate Army in the American Civil War. He moved to Independence, Texas, in 1868 and taught art at Baylor University in the 1870s and 1880s. After Baylor moved to Waco in 1886, McArdle stayed in Independence, but by 1895 he had moved to San Antonio to be closer to family. He passed away on February 16, 1908, in San Antonio.
Painting of Henry A. McArdle by his son W.A. McArdle.
George W. Baines, former president of Baylor University, and great-grandfather of the President of the United States, became editor of Texas' first denominational newspaper, The Texas Baptist. Baines in the foreground, studies one of the copies still fresh from the hand-set press.
John Thomas Harrington, co-founder of Baylor University College of Medicine, Chairman of Baylor University Board of Trustees 1932-47.
Matron of Baylor University, for whom Georgia Burleson Hall was named. Compiler and publisher (1901) of "The Life and writings of Rufus C. Burleson," in honor of her late husband. Charter Member, Columbus Avenue Baptist Church, Waco.
As the first president of Baylor University (1845-1851), Henry Lee Graves expanded the curriculum, added departments of mathematics and classics, and raised money for Baylor's continued operations. He is also credited with the construction of the first solid masonry building on the campus at Independence.
First Woman Trustee of Baylor University 1926-1938. Chair, Women's Auxiliary, Central Texas Baptist Sanitarium, Waco. Leader in Columbus Avenue Baptist Church, Waco. First President, Waco YMCA. First president, City Federation of Missions. Member, Central Committee for Woman's Memorial Dormitory, Baylor. Member of State Executive Board, WMU.
Historian and professor of church history at Baylor University.
Francis Calhoun Parker was a niece of John C. Calhoun. The rest of this portrait was destroyed when Union soldiers burned the Parker mansion during Sherman's March to the Sea.
John Thomas Harrington, co-founder of Baylor University College of Medicine, Chairman of Baylor University Board of Trustees 1932-47.
John Thomas Harrington, co-founder of Baylor University College of Medicine, Chairman of Baylor University Board of Trustees 1932-47.
First in a series of paintings on children who live on the United States-Mexico border. Exhibited in Del Rio in 1936, Washington D.C. in 1942, and in Cumberland, Maryland, in 1945.
Old Texas flag presented by the ladies of San Antonio during the American Civil War to General John R. Baylor.
Alvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca, an early Spanish explorer in the Southern United States, was part of a group sent to establish a Spanish colony between Florida and Mexico in 1527. Through an error, a group of these explorers who had landed in Florida were abandoned by their ships. This group of 250-300 men then spent the next nine years traveling over 2,400 miles to Mexico City. They had many adventures with American Indians along the way. One group of Indians they encountered believed Cabeza de Vaca was a healer, and compelled him to treat their sick. This painting shows Cabeza de Vaca performing the first surgical operation ever performed by a white man on the North American continent in 1535.
George Webb Slaughter, Baptist preacher and rancher in Texas, is being arrested in this painting for attempting to hold a Protestant church service in Mexican Texas.
During the American Civil War, 143 men from Baylor University entered the Confederate forces. During the war, Confederate forces were granted temporary use of university buildings. The President's house, built by Rufus C. Burleson, became military headquarters for the Confederate troops.
This painting shows what the chartering of Baylor University might have looked like. Standing at the far end of the table is Judge R.E.B. Baylor, with James Huckins seated at his left, and William Tryon writing in the name Baylor University. Anson Jones, President of the Republic of Texas, in the foreground, with President of the Senate Kenneth Anderson and Speaker of the House John M. Lewis ready to affix their signatures to the official document.
Dr. Samuel Palmer Brooks (right), President of Baylor University from 1902 to 1931, confers with Board President Pat M. Neff in "Prexy" Office shortly before President Brooks's composition of his immortal message to seniors and his eventual death. Neff gave the funeral eulogy for his former roommate and succeeded him as President of Baylor University.
Baylor University opened law classes at Independence in 1858 when Judge R.E.B. Baylor and Judge Abner Smith Lipscomb volunteered to give law lectures. Benches from the Independence Baptist Church were used in the first classroom. Judge John Sayles and Judge Royal T. Wheeler later joined the staff.
Rufus C. Burleson, Baylor's president from 1851-1861, surveys the Independence campus, seeking God's guidance in serving students--those present and those to come.
Artist Bettie Williams Graves was daughter of Henry Lee Graves, first president of Baylor University.
Artist Bettie Williams Graves was daughter of Henry Lee Graves, first president of Baylor University. She completed the painting when she was fifteen years old.
Rufus Washington Weaver was born in Greensboro, North Carolina, on 1870 June 3. As a young man, Weaver worked as a printer and a journalist. Weaver received an A.B. and M.A. from Wake Forest College in 1893, a Th.D. from Southern Baptist Seminary in 1899, and four additional degrees between 1912 and 1920. He married Charlotte Mason Payne in 1911. All the while, Weaver was both pastoring Baptist churchesDLfrom North Carolina to Ohio to MarylandDLand beginning a longstanding involvement in Baptist education. Weaver started by teaching high school, moved on to leadership of the Baptist Education Board in Tennessee, and eventually became the president of Georgia’s Mercer University, a position he held from 1918 to 1927. During and after his time at Mercer, Weaver remained active in the educational work of the Southern Baptist Convention, and in his later years he instructed graduate students at the American University in Washington, DC. After he left Mercer University, most of Weaver’s professional work took place in the nation’s capital and centered on the relationship of church and state. A prolific author, Weaver published numerous books and pamphlets on the relationship of Christianity to American culture, including a collection of sermons titled The Christian Faith at the Nation’s Capital (1936). Weaver also had key leadership roles in the District of Columbia Baptist Convention and the Southern Baptist Committee on Public Relations. The latter organizationDLtogether with similar committees from the Northern Baptist Convention and the National Baptist Convention USA, Inc. DLwas later subsumed into the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairs, which in turn maintained and then donated Weaver's personal papers to Baylor University. Rufus W. Weaver died in Washington, DC, on 1947 January 31.
This series contains a book manuscriptDLincluding tables of contents, chapter drafts, and bibliographiesDLwritten by Rufus W. Weaver between the 1920s and the 1940s. The book appears to be an overarching summary of religion’s historic role in culture, with a particular focus upon Christianity. This series is in average condition.
This series includes addresses, articles, statements, and other documents produced by Rufus Weaver while he was the president of Georgia’s Mercer University (1918-1927). Many of these documents relate to Mercer’s role in establishing Baptist churches, colleges, and seminaries across the South. The series is in average condition.
This series is comprised of the lecture and research notes, addresses, statements, and sermons of Rufus W. Weaver. Most of these materials were produced during Weaver’s later years, while he was living in Washington, but some relate to his early pastoral ministry. This series is in average condition.
The Texas Council of Church-Related Colleges (TCCRC) was founded in 1937 during a meeting at Baylor University. Its stated purpose was to “give emphasis to the fundamental place of religion in education,” and specifically to promote the mutual needs of and cooperation between church-related colleges in Texas. Representatives of fifteen senior and junior colleges were present at the TCCRC’s first meeting, though its early membership included some twenty-nine Texas colleges. Throughout its existence, the TCCRC served as a forum for communication between administrators from church-related colleges across Texas. Though not a particularly active organization, the TCCRC’s annual meetings attracted national speakers and dozens of local college presidents and deans. These meetings featured addresses and roundtables relevant to the common issues faced by these administrators: financial shortfalls, denominational relations, community involvement, legal questions, and the like. Over time, however, other Texas-based organizations such as the Independent Colleges and Universities of Texas (ICUT) began to form more active but less religious alternatives to the TCCRC. Finally, in 1981, the TCCRC was dissolved following recommendations from Baylor’s president, Abner McCall. McCall suggested that the TCCRC had to “devise a program which would mean something and deal with value education,” or else simplify the schedules of administrators by disbanding and leaving its work to the ICUT. The group’s members decided on June 4, 1981, and voted unanimously to dissolve the TCCRC.
This series is largely comprised of correspondence between the officers of the Texas Council of Church-Related Colleges (TCCRC) and the administrators of its member institutions. Most of the documents relate to the planning of annual meetings, the payment of dues, or the TCCRC's scholarship certificate program. The series is in good condition.
Most of the documents in this series are related to the annual meetings of the Texas Council of Church-Related Colleges. They include meeting minutes, correspondence, pamphlets, budget reports, and a variety of other printed materials. This series is in good condition.
This series is comprised of financial documents from the Texas Council of Church-Related College's last two decades, including check stubs, bank statements, and ledgers. The series is in good condition.
The Texas Sheet Music collection is an artificial collection created over time by The Texas Collection staff from many different sources. All of the songs herein relate back to the central theme of the collection: life in Texas.
Series I. Compositions, the only series in the Texas Sheet Music collection, consists of songs and scores related to the state of Texas. The themes represented in this collection are quite diverse with particular emphasis on the Texas War for Independence, the Mexican-American War, Christmas in Texas, the city of Waco, patriotism, and life in the American Southwest. The contents of this series are arranged alphabetically by title and are in average condition.
BU Records: Baylor Sheet Music collection is an artificial collection created by The Texas Collection staff from different donors over time. The songs in this collection relate to events, athletics, campus, students, and traditions surrounding Baylor University. Many of the songs in this collection are still sung at various Baylor events. Some songs were written by people affiliated with Baylor, including staff and faculty members, such as Lily Russell.
Series I. Compositions contains sheet music related to Baylor University. The main theme of the materials relates to events, traditions, and athletics at Baylor University. There are also songs that do not directly relate to Baylor but are dedicated to Baylor by the composer. The materials in this series are in poor to average condition.
The history of the Baylor Home Economics Department can be traced back to 1850. Five years after Baylor officially established itself as a university in Independence, Texas, it began teaching home economics classes. In 1933, the Department of Home Economics was established at Baylor in Waco, Texas. At the time, the Department of Home Economics offered three degrees: home economics education, general home economics, and fashion merchandising. The Home Economics Department found its permanent home at the Mary Gibb Jones Home Economics Facility in 1977. In 1994, the department became known as Family and Consumer Sciences.
This series contains correspondence produced by the Home Economics Department, including invitations for events. It also contains correspondence of Mrs. T. C. Cardwell during her time as chairman of the Home Economics Department. Some of the correspondence is personal, but most reference the department in some way. This series is in average to good condition.
This series contains material related to the education of home economics, including notebooks, lesson materials, and government forms. Most of the material in this series is undated and was collected by Clyde Newton Cardwell. This series is in average condition.
This is the largest series in BU Records: Home Economics Department and contains various publications produced by the Home Economics Department, publications related to home economics and vocational education, recipes published by large companies such as Heinz, and clippings collected by students and Clyde Newton Cardwell. It is in average condition.
Esse Forrester O'Brien was born in Waco, Texas, on 1894 November 21. She attended Waco High School and earned a fine arts diploma in 1913 from Baylor University. O’Brien completed a year of postgraduate work in art at Baylor and studied under George Bridgman at the Art Students League in New York City. She continued to study art and writing until she returned to Waco and earned a B.A. from Baylor in 1934. Esse Forrester married John L. O’Brien in 1917. She published Art and Artists of Texas in 1935. O’Brien died 1975 May 21 in Waco.
This series contains correspondence with various people as O'Brien gathered information for her book Art and Artists of Texas.
This series contains notes used by O'Brien as she wrote her book, including lists of people to contact and exhibits to see. This series is in average condition.
This series contains manuscript materials used for O'Brien's book Art and Artists of Texas. This series is in average condition.
This series contains pamphlets, brochures, and other print materials used by O'Brien to write her book. This series is in average condition.
Ralph Henry Durkee, the son of Milan Charles Durkee and Elizabeth Silverthorn, was born on 1888 October 8 in Ashtabula County, Ohio. Ralph graduated from Ohio State University with a Bachelor of Science in Education in 1911. Afterwards, he served as a teacher and administrator in a number of Ohio schools. With the outbreak of World War I, Durkee entered an Officer’s Training Camp at Fort Benjamin near Indianapolis. Following the war, Durkee moved to San Antonio where he met Mary Carter whom he married in 1924. Durkee retired from active military duty but continued to serve in a civilian capacity throughout his lifetime. He was the Civilian Aide to the Secretary of War, representing the state of Texas six times. In 1935, he was promoted to the rank of colonel. Colonel Ralph Durkee served as the commandant of the Army Specialized Training Unit at Baylor University from 1943 to 1944. Years later, in 1979, Durkee donated this collection of programs and rosters to The Texas Collection. He passed away on 1981 February 1 and is buried in San Fernando Cemetery in San Antonio.
Series I. Literary Productions, the only series in this collection, is comprised of two folders. The first contains programs from two graduation ceremonies celebrating the fulfillment of basic engineering courses. The second folder houses rosters for Company A and Company B of Unit #3857, a unit of the U.S. Army Specialized Training Program with headquarters at Baylor University. The materials are in good condition.
Elma Merle Mears, the donor of this collection, was born on 1895 September 6 to Thomas Robert Mears and Rosa Elma Belcher Watkins. Her family moved to Gatesville when her father was elected to the Texas House of Representatives. Merle, who preferred to be called by her middle name, graduated from the University of Texas in 1917 with a double major of history and science. Over the next few years, she served as a teacher in the Gatesville area. On 1920 June 1 Merle married a lawyer named William Clay McClellan. In 1922, the couple had their only child, a son named Thomas Rufus McClellan. The McClellan family moved to Waco to further Clay’s law career, but in 1938, he passed away from cancer at the age of 48. The following year, Thomas accepted an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Merle accompanied her son and subsequently began graduate work at George Washington University. Merle eventually returned to Waco where she earned a Master’s degree in history at Baylor University in 1941. She taught briefly at Baylor (1941-1945) while also serving as the Armed Services Representative for the university. Baylor President Pat Neff appointed Merle to the position in the spring of 1943. Her responsibilities centered on acting as a liaison between the government and the university, particularly proposing exemptions from military service on a case-by-case basis. Merle left Baylor in 1945 when she married a businessman named Bruce Duncan. She eventually taught a second stint at Baylor University (1956-1960) before retiring in Waco. She passed away on 1985 September 30 at the age of 90.
Series I. Correspondence is the only series found in the collection. It consists of letters sent to Merle Mears McClellan, the Armed Services Representative for Baylor University during World War II. Her correspondents were primarily former Baylor students who had since been transferred elsewhere in the United States for further training or had been deployed to combat overseas. There are also a few letters from parents of such students along with letters from Texas Congressmen and various military officials. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Phi Delta Phi is an international legal society established in 1869 at the University of Michigan with the intent to foster a higher standard of professional ethics within the legal world. There are over 130 active chapters (known as “Inns”) across the world and over 200,000 initiated members. The Hemphill Inn of Phi Delta Phi was established at Baylor on 1949 October 21 and became the 78th Inn of the international organization. Members of the Justinian Society of the Baylor Law School, previously known as the Pre-Law club, petitioned for and were granted a charter to become an Inn of Phi Delta Phi. The namesake “Hemphill” Inn came from John Hemphill, the first Chief Justice of the Texas Supreme Court.
This series contains materials relating to the operation of Phi Delta Phi at Baylor. It includes financial statements, various reports, information about members and potential initiates in the Law School. This series is in average condition.
This series contains letters sent from and to the organization, as well as invitations to pledges for events and initiation into the organization. This series is in good condition This series contains various publications produced or received by the organization, both locally and nationally. This includes bulletins, clippings, histories, and materials related to Law courses at Baylor. This series is in average condition.
Mamie Boone (1888-1979) was longtime principal of John H. Reagan Elementary School in Dallas, Texas, during the 1950s. Prior to her time at Reagan Elementary, she was principal of James S. Hogg Elementary School, also in Dallas. She served as Vice-President of the Texas Elementary Principals and Supervisors Association in 1922. After a long and distinguished career in public education, she passed away in 1979 and was buried in Laurel Land Memorial Park, Dallas.
This series contains bound and loose poetry and other literary materials, including a Dallas Texas high school scrapbook. This series is in average condition.
This series contains materials on Boone's numerous travels during summers, when she had time off work from her job as a school principal in Dallas, Texas. Included in this series is an extensive number of postcards she collected of various places she visited in Europe. This series is in good condition.
This series contains correspondence, Waco University speeches, poetry, photographs, and other materials from Mary Cole Boone, Mamie Boone's mother. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains materials on the dedication of an elevator at Baylor University's Student Life Center by the NoZe Brotherhood. These materials appear to have been sent to Mamie Boone. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains loose recipes and The White House Cook Book. This series is in poor condition.
The Nose Brothers were founded in the 1920s as a rival to the Baylor Chamber of Commerce and as a satire on men’s social organizations. Although the exact date of the organization’s founding is disputed, it is the oldest men’s social organization at Baylor University. Its annual gala, The Pink Tea, dates back to 1926. The organization has gone by a number of names, including The Nosemen of Truth, The Most Noble Nose Brotherhood of Baylor Barber College, the Nose Brotherhood of the Universe, Unlimited, and, currently, The NoZe Brotherhood. NoZe was spelled with a capitalized “z” after 1965. The NoZe Brotherhood is governed by "The Book of Holy Law," which stipulates the structure of the organization as well as standards of conduct for its members. All members of the organization adopt humorous, nose-related pseudonyms. Members of the organization were originally called “Nosemen” and are currently called Brothers. The Brotherhood became a secret society in the mid-1960s. Currently, brothers “undress” (wear costumes, often wigs, glasses, and beards or mustaches) to keep their identities hidden. The NoZe Brotherhood publishes The Rope parodied a study-abroad program using racial stereotypes, and the Brotherhood was subsequently kicked off campus when it refused to register with the University as a formal organization. Currently, the NoZe Brotherhood is not an official student organization at Baylor University.
This series is arranged chronologically. It contains a 1970 sociology paper on the organizational structure of the Brotherhood; a proposed, 1984 agreement between Baylor University and the Brotherhood; and a 1995 copy of "The Book of the Holy Law." This series is in excellent condition.
This series is arranged chronologically by decade. It contains newspaper and magazine clippings about the NoZe Brotherhood. This series is in good condition.
This series contains correspondence to and from members of the NoZe Brotherhood. This series is in excellent condition.
This series is organized alphabetically, except the folders containing The Rope, which were placed at the end of the series in order to ensure room for continued expansion. This series is in good condition.
The Baylor Student Education Association (BSEA) was chartered in 1971 at Baylor University as a professional organization in the School of Education. It was the local chapter of the Texas Student Education Association (TSEA), a student affiliate of the Texas State Teachers Association and the National Education Association (NEA). The primary mission of the BSEA was threefold: preparing future teachers at Baylor through training experiences and events, encouraging highly selective standards for individuals in the teaching profession, and interesting students in teaching careers. To be a member of the BSEA, the student must have been an education major or a “friend of education” at Baylor, as well as a member of the National Education Association and Texas State Teachers Association. The organization remained active until 2009.
This series includes several scrapbooks created by members of the organization over time. Some scrapbooks were removed from their covers and placed in folders for preservation purposes. This series is in average condition.
Dr. Rufus B. Spain was born in Pickens County, Alabama, in 1923. A Baptist and a historian of Baptists, he began his higher education at two Baptist institutions in Mississippi: Clarke Junior College and Mississippi College. Spain’s time at the latter was interrupted by World War II, in which he served in Europe with the U.S. Army between 1943 and 1945. Spain finished his A.B. at Mississippi College in 1947, and he spent subsequent years gradually earning his M.A. (1948) and Ph.D. (1961), both in history, from Vanderbilt University. Along the way, Spain taught at the secondary level, served as history professor at Tennessee’s Cumberland University, and served an additional three years in the U.S. Army. Spain came to Baylor University from Vanderbilt in 1957 and began teaching courses in the Department of History. These included American history surveys and a specialized course on American religious history. Spain’s revised Ph.D. dissertation--At Ease in Zion: A Social History of Southern Baptists, 1865-1900--was published by Vanderbilt University Press in 1967 and played a significant role in the development of the field of Southern religious history. Spain retired from full-time teaching in 1988 but taught part-time in the Department of History for another ten years. After his full retirement from teaching in 1998, Spain took on the directorship of the Baylor Retired Professors/Administrators Program, which he continued to lead until 2013. Spain spent a total of fifty-five years as an employee at Baylor University.
This series reflects Rufus Spain’s tenure as a full- and part-time professor at Baylor from 1957 to 1998. It consists of administrative documents, correspondence, student publications, programs from campus events such as guest lectures and Focus Weeks, and political advertisements and newsletters. This series is in good condition.
This series is a product of Rufus Spain’s semi-retirement as the director of the Baylor Retired Professors/Administrators Program, a position he held between 1998 and 2012. It consists primarily of printed email correspondence and other materials relating to the Baylor 2012 strategic plan, as it evolved under the presidencies of Robert Sloan, John Lilley, and Kenneth Starr. This series is in good condition.
Like Series II, this series contains materials reflective of Rufus Spain’s retirement years. The subject files in this series highlight responses from across the Baylor community to particular facets of the Baylor 2012 strategic plan as proposed by President Robert B. Sloan, Jr., including the relationship of faith to higher education and the priority of graduate as opposed to undergraduate education. This series is in good condition.
As in Series II and Series III, the materials in this final series were collected and produced after Rufus Spain’s retirement from teaching at Baylor. This series contains newspaper clippings and magazine articles, many of them closely related to the Baylor 2012 plan, as well as often-annotated newsletters of the Baylor Retired Professors/Administrators Program. This series is in good condition.
Dr. Thomas F. Walker received his master’s degree in Spanish from Baylor in 1946 after serving in the US Navy during World War II. He then went on to receive his PhD in Spanish from the University of Texas at Austin. After finishing his doctoral coursework, he returned to Baylor as a professor and stayed until his death in 1976. During his last ten years at Baylor, Dr. Walker served as the Spanish Department’s chairman. His publications include his master’s thesis, “The Historicity of the Chroniclers on the Conquest of Mexico,” and the chapter “The Struggle for Independence and the First Empire: Pre-Revolutionary Pamphleteering in Mexico” from Essays in Mexican History; The Charles Wilson Hackett Memorial Volume published by the Institute of Latin-American Studies at the University of Texas. Baylor University’s Spanish Department is part of the Department of Modern Foreign Languages in the College of Arts and Sciences. The DMFL offers courses in eleven different modern languages, divided into four divisions: Asian and African Languages, French and Italian, German and Russian, and Spanish and Portuguese. The Spanish Department offers both an undergraduate and a graduate program. Highlights of the program include numerous study abroad opportunities and a chapter of Sigma Delta Pi, the National Collegiate Hispanic Honor Society.
The first eight folders contain teaching materials and doctoral student materials from T. J. Walker's time at the University of Texas. The teaching materials are arranged largely by date, but special care was taken to keep the student materials in roughly the same arrangement they were supplied in. The remaining folders in this series contain student term papers and materials from T. J. Walker's time at Baylor. These are separated into folders by class, and are arranged by date within the folders. The latter half of the series contains research materials and writing drafts which are kept largely in their original order.
This series contains various materials relating to Baylor's Spanish Department, including student papers, teaching materials, correspondence, and promotional materials. They are in good condition.
John N. Rowe III was born to John Nelson and Margaret Elizabeth Rowe around 1937 in Dallas, Texas. From a young age, he began collecting bank notes, and this hobby soon turned into a passion. He began donating his collection of papers to The Texas Collection in 1985, with the last donation in 1991. Today, Rowe is one of the foremost numismatic dealers in the United States, earning the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Professional Numismatic Guild in 2009.
The Spanish Documents series contains correspondence, official municipal documents, preprinted government documents, incomplete documents, a ledger, receipts and a typewritten transcript. Notable among these items is a 151 piece section of correspondence to and from Conde Antonio de Perez Galvez from 1808, and a section of 86 documents relating to Puerto Rico from the 1850s. There are also State documents relating to San Luis Potosi and other Mexican States, and a 1831 hymn book from Santa Teresa de Jesus, Mexico. Due to the age and fragile nature of these documents, they are placed in protective sleeves and cannot be removed. Please use caution in handling them.
The Early Texas Documents series contains general correspondence, legal documents such as land grants and titles, wills, marriage licenses, court documents and legal representation documents. It also contains financial documents such as treasury warrants, bonds, inventories and numerous pieces of currency from the Republic of Texas as well as the Civil War period. Rounding out this series are documents in German, French and Latin, flyers, sheet music, invitations, tickets, circulars, and publications.
The correspondence subseries consists of general correspondence with no set theme or groupings. Of particular note is one letter to General S.F. Austin, Branch F. Archer and William H. Wharton from October 16, 1835, relating that "Bexar has fallen!" The legal subseries is the largest of the Early Texas Documents and consists of materials covering land grants, land titles, wills, marriages, court documents, and documents pertaining to legal representation. In some cases, there are more than one document for a particular person, but most are stand alone items. Rare signatures such as Moses Austin, Stephen F. Austin, and Sam Houston can be found in this subseries.
The third subseries, financial, is made up of financial documents in the form of treasury warrants, inventories, receipts, bonds, Republic of Texas and Civil War currency, and checks. As with the other subseries in this section, most of the documents are stand alone items and have no connection to others in the subseries. The Republic of Texas and Civil War currency are interesting for the range and variety of notes.
Other is the fourth subseries and contains materials in languages other than English and Spanish, such as German, French, and Latin. It also holds early flyers, sheet music, invitations, tickets, circulars, publications, and a section of letters and documents from the Arthur Stiles family.
The Stiles family materials are three document boxes of correspondence and business records from Arthur's surveying business.
The Early United States Documents series contains early documents relating to the United States apart from Texas. Confederate State currency, United States currency, bank notes and script from non-Texas states, treasury warrants, United States treaties with individual Indian tribes, and correspondence call be found in this section of the papers.
Wilson Fielder Jr. was born on 1917 July 28th, to Baptist missionaries John Wilson Fielder Sr. and Maudie Ethel Albritton in a hospital in Kaifeng, China. He was the first of five children born to the couple between the years of 1919 and 1932. During those years, the family moved between China and the United States due to the political turmoil in the country. In 1936, Fielder left his family to spend time traveling around Europe. He then moved to Texas, where he began to attend Baylor University to pursue a degree in journalism. By 1939, Fielder had become the editor of the Baylor Time’s correspondent and headed to where fighting was heaviest, the Taejon Front. It was here where the 1st Battalion of the 24th infantry division was attempting to hold the North Korean advance. It also became Fielder’s last known location before he went missing in action during the fighting. It took over two years for Virginia and the Fielders to learn of their son and husband’s death. When Fielder’s body was finally recovered, the 33-year-old man was buried in a graveyard for Westerners outside of Yokohama, Japan, on 1952 March 11th. In Fielder’s memory, a scholarship was established to support students of journalism at Baylor University.
This series contains the correspondence relating to Wilson Fielder Jr. The materials include letters to and from his family, wife, and letters of sympathy written to Fielder's family after his death. The materials are dated from 1935 to 2002. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains the literary productions of Wilson Fielder Jr., including magazine articles, newsletters, newspaper clippings, military records, the diary of Wilson Fielder Jr., and a thesis written about him. The materials are dated from 1935-2001. The condition of the collection is good.
This series contains photographs relating to Wilson Fielder Jr., including photographs of him as a young man, his time in the military, and of his funeral, gravesite, and memorial plaque on the campus of Baylor University. The condition of the collection is good.
This series contains the personal materials of Wilson Fielder Jr., which include his identification card for the Marine Corp, his 1948 Marine Corp Officer's School Yearbook, and the ribbons used during his funeral.
Established in 1956, the Inter Club Council of Baylor University organized and governed the activities of the social clubs on campus, especially rush, the process by which clubs gained new members. Separate officers were elected for the men and women's councils, although occasionally the two groups met jointly. The Inter Club Council sponsored a university-wide dance as well as social events for the members of the social clubs. The Inter Club Council had the authority to impose sanctions on clubs based on violations of the rush handbook. The council also acted as a liaison between the social clubs and university administration. Mrs. Virginia Crump served as the faculty sponsor of the group for the majority of its existence. The Inter Club Council disbanded in 1977 when most of Baylor's social clubs voted to affiliate with national Greek organizations.
This series consists of newspaper clippings, minutes, and rush information related to the Inter Club Council. This series is in good condition.
The Faculty Development Committee at Baylor University sought to provide opportunities and resources for faculty members to advance their research, publications, and classroom materials. The committee accomplished its goal by administering university sabbaticals, summer sabbaticals, fellowships for course releases, summer teaching institute fellowship, and discussion groups and workshops. Faculty members had to apply for university sabbaticals, which gave them eight months off with pay to research and write. The committee evaluated all proposals and recommended recipients to the Executive Vice President and Dean. At some point, the Office of the Provost subsumed the responsibilities of the Faculty Development Committee.
This series contains memorandums related to the various activities of the Faculty Development Committee. This series is in good condition.
This series contains publications created by faculty members on sabbatical selected by the Faculty Development Committee. It also contains event flyers and program information for the committee's various activities. This series is in good condition.
The Lone Star Baptist Church was organized in 1903 by J. W. Attaways in Calf Creek, Texas. While the community of Calf Creek was large enough in the late 1800s and early 1900s to support a school and several local businesses, the population grew smaller throughout the mid 1900s. The school district was merged with the school in Brady, Texas, in 1949, and the post office closed in 1953. Today the Calf Creek community numbers less than 25 people.
These ledgers were mass-produced by the Baptist Sunday School Board and include a standardized Declaration of Faith and Rules of Order. Blank sections were included, to be completed by individual congregations.
Pi Gamma Mu is a collegiate honor society for students studying the social sciences. It was founded in 1924 by Dr. Leroy Allen, who was the head of the economics department at Southwestern College in Winfield, Kansas. The organization quickly spread throughout the country and in 1981 it became an international organization with the establishment of a chapter at the University of the Philippines. Pi Gamma Mu has also published a journal since 1925, when it was originally called Currently, there are over 150 chapters in the United States and abroad. The Texas Beta Chapter of Pi Gamma Mu was charted at Baylor University on 1924 December 1 after Charlie D. Johnson reached out to the society for recognition.
Johnson would also become the organization’s first secretary. The organization operated on campus until its dissolution sometime after 1968.
This series contains correspondence between members of the Texas Beta chapter of Pi Gamma Mu as well as correspondence between the chapter and the national organization. This series is in good condition.
This series contains club materials such as handbooks, histories, membership details, ritual information, and newspaper clippings related to the Texas Beta Chapter of the Pi Gamma Mu fraternity. This series is in good condition.
Wilford Wolfie Naman was born to Jacob I. Naman and Fannie Cohen Naman on 1887 March 6 in Waco, Texas. Naman was the salutatorian of his high school class, graduating at the age of sixteen in 1903. Though Naman’s father worked in the cotton industry, there was no expectation that his son should join the family business. The semester following his graduation, Naman began taking classes at Baylor University. While at Baylor, Naman met Samuel Palmer (S. P.) Brooks, the President of the university. In his career, Brooks had spent two years at Baylor before moving on to Yale to finish his law degree. A great admirer of Brooks, Naman vowed to follow the same path. After two years at Baylor, Naman was accepted to Yale with no examinations required, and moved to Connecticut to begin classes. Upon his graduation, Naman moved back to Waco, Texas, in 1910, where he taught high school for one year before deciding to practice law. In 1917 Naman helped to found Naman, Howell, Smith and Chase, a prominent law firm that still exists today under the name Naman, Howell, Smith and Lee. Upon the outbreak of the First World War in the spring of 1917, Naman enlisted in the National Guard. His unit was sent to Camp Bowie in Fort Worth in September of that year, where training began. Naman had drilled with the Baylor student military organization during his undergraduate years. As a lieutenant in the 131st Field Artillery, Naman shipped out to France with his unit in August of 1918. Naman was never on the front lines of the war, instead working as an artillery spotter. While on leave in Paris, he bought a fancy pair of boots that earned him the nickname “Beaucoup Boots.” Naman came home from the war in the spring of 1919, where he resumed work in his legal practice. He married Isiadora Levy on 1923 February 12, and the couple had their only son, Jacob “Jay” Naman in 1925. Over the course of his professional career, Naman became a member of several different organizations, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the Ex-Students Association at Baylor, and the American Bar Foundation. He died on 1978 May 3, aged 91, and is buried at the Hebrew Rest Cemetery in Waco.
This series is made up of Wilford Wolfie Naman's correspondence, particularly letters, from the First World War. Most are written by Naman and sent home, however, some are written from his sister, Charlotte Birdie Naman Silvers (Mrs. Robert Silvers), or other friends and family to Naman. The series is in average condition.
This series contains postcards and photographs and is in average condition.
This series contains receipts, tax records, warranty deeds, military promotion and movement records, a booklet from the Supreme Court of Texas and the State Democratic Executive Committee. The series is in poor condition.
This series contains a dance card, a pistol manual, several opera playbills, Trail Logs of the 131st (2nd Texas National Guard) Field Artillery, a booklet concerning the Brazos River, a journal, and other materials collected by Wilford Wolfie Naman during his lifetime. The series is in average to poor condition.
This series contains full newspapers, clippings, and a magazine. The series is in poor condition.
Mary McCauley Maxwell was born in Moody, Texas, on 1884 October 8. She attended Baylor Female College (now the University of Mary-Hardin Baylor), graduating in 1904. She then attended Baylor University, where she was a member of the Calliopean Literary Society, and graduated in 1908. She served as the head of the History Department at Baylor Female College until she married F. O. Maxwell in 1913. The couple had three children. Mary McCauley Maxwell developed an interest in Judge R. E. B. Baylor, one of the founders of both of her alma maters, in the 1930s, and she began to collect his relics. She donated the items to the university at the 90th Commencement in 1935. Because of her research and contact with the Baylor family, she persuaded them to donate several valuable family relics to Baylor University as well. Maxwell was one of the primary people working to preserve Baylor's original campus in Independence, Texas. She also persuaded the Centennial Commission to give $14,000 to Baylor for a statue of Judge R. E. B. Baylor, eventually created by Pompeo Coppini. She was invited to join the State Historical Society in 1954. Mary McCauley Maxwell died in Waco, Texas, on 1963 January 31.
This series contains a scrapbook with materials collected by Mary McCauley Maxwell during her senior year at Baylor University in 1907-1908. The series also contains clippings about her efforts to preserve Baylor's history later in her life. This series is in average condition.
Pi Gamma Mu is a collegiate honor society for students studying the social sciences. It was founded in 1924 by Dr. Leroy Allen, who was the head of the economics department at Southwestern College in Winfield, Kansas. The organization quickly spread throughout the country and in 1981 it became an international organization with the establishment of a chapter at the University of the Philippines. Pi Gamma Mu has also published a journal since 1925, when it was originally called Currently, there are over 150 chapters in the United States and abroad. The Texas Beta Chapter of Pi Gamma Mu was charted at Baylor University on 1924 December 1 after Charlie D. Johnson reached out to the society for recognition.
Johnson would also become the organization’s first secretary. The organization operated on campus until its dissolution sometime after 1968.
This series contains correspondence between members of the Texas Beta chapter of Pi Gamma Mu as well as correspondence between the chapter and the national organization. This series is in good condition.
This series contains club materials such as handbooks, histories, membership details, ritual information, and newspaper clippings related to the Texas Beta Chapter of the Pi Gamma Mu fraternity. This series is in good condition.
The First Baptist Church of Ladonia was organized on January 8, 1860, with A.J. Moffat as the first preacher. The original congregants met in a two-room schoolhouse, but were able to build their own church building in 1877. However, this building burned in 1909, leading the congregation to construct another church building in 1910. Other buildings and additions were completed in the mid-1900s. Membership held steady at 200-300 people throughout the 1900s. The First Baptist Church of Ladonia continues to have a strong presence in the community life of Ladonia, Texas.
This series contains one minute book and various loose materials removed from the minute book for better preservation. This series is in good condition.
Sigma Xi, the Scientific Research Society, was founded at Cornell University by Frank Van Vleck and a group of engineering students in 1886. Its purpose to promote research and discussion among all of the scientific fields. The organization quickly spread to other universities and by the 1900’s, there were over a thousand members spread through eight chapters. Throughout the 20th century, the number of chapters continued to expand and were even being established internationally. Today, there are 500 chapters with over 60,000 members here in United States and abroad. The Baylor Chapter of Sigma Xi was founded on 1968 May 4th as the 167th chapter of the organization. It continues to promote research and discussion among the science departments.
This series contains materials relating to the founding of the chapter, along with its constitution, by-laws, and events. The series is in good condition.
The Toastmasters Club was founded by Dr. Ralph C. Smedley on 1924 October 22 in Santa Anna, California. The group was founded in order to teach young people skills in public speaking, leadership, and collaboration. By 1930, the organization had expanded to have around 30 affiliated clubs in the USA and Canada and in 1932, it was incorporated as a non-profit under the name of Toastmasters International. Today, there are over 358,000 members in 16,800 clubs based in 70 different countries. The Baylor chapter of the Toastmasters was charted on 2003 March 27 with 22 members. It continues to meet on the campus of Baylor University.
This series contains the minutes of club meetings, correspondence, and financial records such as receipts, bank statements, and members' dues records. The series is in excellent condition.
Cornelia Marschall Smith was born 1895 October 15 on a ranch in Llano County, Texas, the youngest of four children of Lucy and Ernst Marschall. Cornelia attended public schools in Llano, finishing high school in three years. She then pursued a State Teacher's Certificate and taught at a private one-teacher school for one year. In 1915, Cornelia entered the pre-med program at Baylor University and graduated in 1918. She accepted a position at Waco High School upon graduation and taught biology there until 1925. While teaching high school, Cornelia completed the requirements for the Master's program in botany at the University of Chicago, finishing in 1923. It was in 1923 that Cornelia met Professor Charles G. Smith whom she married in 1926. Cornelia then entered Johns Hopkins University where she received her PhD in biology in 1928. In the fall of 1928, Cornelia was appointed Assistant Professor of Botany at Baylor University, where she taught General Biology, Bacteriology, Methods of Teaching Biology, and other courses. Her husband, Charles, was also a professor of English at Baylor during this time. In 1930, however, Baylor instituted a policy prohibiting a husband and wife from both teaching at Baylor. This led Cornelia to give up her position as professor and take up research. She studied in Baylor's English department and maintained her own research schedule in botany. In 1935, the Smiths moved to John B. Stetson University where Cornelia served as Chairman of the Botany Department and Charles served as Dean of the University. Their appointment at John B. Stetson lasted until 1940 when Baylor President Pat Neff asked the couple to return to Baylor, with Cornelia as Professor of Botany until 1943, when she became Chair of the Botany Department and Curator of the Strecker Museum. She served in this capacity until 1967. For almost a quarter of a century, Cornelia Marschall Smith instructed all pre-med and pre-dental students who enrolled at Baylor. Cornelia held numerous positions during her tenure at Baylor, both within the university and within the community. The governor appointed her to the State Board of Examiners in the Basic Sciences in 1949, and she was their secretary-treasurer until she retired in 1967. In 1959, she was a part of the committee to formulate and initiate Baylor's Honors program.
She was also a member of the pre-med and pre-dental advisory committee. In 1965, she was appointed chairman of the committee to plan the biology section of the new Sid Richardson Science Building. Cornelia was also the faculty advisor to Beta Tau Chapter of Beta, Beta, Beta, the National Honorary Biological Society, was voted Outstanding Woman Faculty Member of Baylor in 1963 and Teacher of the Year in 1966. In 1972, she was voted Outstanding Baylor Alumni and in 1980, Baylor initiated the Cornelia M. Smith Professorship in her honor. Cornelia's community interests were also wide-ranging. She was a member of the Daughters of the Republic of Texas, the American Association of University Professors, American Association of University Women, Modern Language Association, Texas Ornithological Society, Central Texas Chapter of the National Audubon Society, American Society of Zoologist, North Texas Botanical society, and the American Institute of Biological Sciences. Along with these organizations, she also worked in the Waco community on boards and committees such as the McLennan County Unit of the American Cancer Society, Waco Garden Club, and was a charter and lifetime member of the Historic Waco Foundation. She was also instrumental in establishing the Waco Symphony Association. Cornelia continued to be involved with Baylor University and the Waco community after her retirement in 1967. She lived to be 101 years old, passing away in 1997 August, and is buried at Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
The Baylor series contains materials from Cornelia Marschall Smith's time at Baylor University, both as a student and then as a professor. Notes, invitations, programs, course work, photographs, and publications are all included in this section. The condition of the series is good.
The Personal Materials series contains items pertaining to Smith's personal life and diverse interests such as organizations she was affiliated with and awards she received. Included here are correspondence, certificates, invitations, programs, biographical material, and information on the Marschall family who founded Fredericksburg, Texas. This series also contains a postcard collection. The materials are in good condition.
This series contains correspondence sent to Cornelia Marschall Smith from 1918-1990 with some undated materials. The correspondence is comprised of both professional and personal materials. The documents are in good condition.
The Subject Files series represents those files Smith considered miscellaneous in her arrangement and which she foldered and kept separately. The topics range from information dealing with Baylor University to personal associations and memberships. This section also contains materials on Smith's genealogy. The series is in good condition.
The Baylor University Summer School was a program offered by Baylor University beginning in 1889-1890. The program was established in order to serve those seeking to earn college credit outside of the normal academic year. This includes Baylor students themselves, high school students looking to earn credits for college, and teachers who were completing their teaching certifications. The school offered a variety of courses including those in education, speech, theater, music, business, and law. Baylor continues to offer summer courses to this day.
This series contains the advertisements, bulletins, and school records for the Baylor University Summer School. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains correspondence from T.D. Brooks, the dean of the Summer School, to those outside of the university. The condition of the series is good.
The Garden Clinic Garden Club was established in Waco, Texas, as an evening garden club that catered to business women who were unable to attend daytime meetings. They were colloquially known as the “business womens’ garden club.” During the preliminary meetings in the summer of 1951, the organization’s name, flower (amaranthus), and color (flame) were chosen. The first club meeting was held on 1951 September 11 with fourteen charter members. That October, it was decided that the club would limit their membership to twenty-four women. Members participated in home gardening, floral arrangement, and community service. The Garden Clinic Garden Club’s projects have included “Planning and Maintaining Home Gardens,” “Plant Texas,” “Planting, Landscaping and Maintaining Home Gardens—and Water Conservation,” and “Supplying parakeets and cages for Crippled Children’s Hospital, Waco, Texas.” Members of the Garden Clinic Garden Club participated in various flower shows, conventions, and festivals across the state of Texas, including the annual Flower Show, the State Convention of Garden Clubs, and the Waco Council Garden Center Spring Festival. In 1954 March at the second annual Flower Show, themed "Gardens of the United Nations," the Garden Clinic won a tri-colored award for their floral exhibit inspired by Indonesia. On 1954 June 15, the Garden Clinic appeared on a local television program that advertised the activities of Waco’s garden clubs. The Garden Clinic Garden Club also helped to raise funds for the Garden Council Building in 1956. During that same year, they donated a tree to the Garden Council’s Memorial Tree Fund. The Garden Clinic Garden Club was associated with the Waco Council of Garden Clubs, the National Council of State Garden Clubs, Inc., and Texas Garden Clubs, Inc., District V. The club was part of a large network of garden clubs in Waco during the twentieth century.
This series contains minutes, club activities, a journal, and annual reports generated by the Garden Clinic Garden Club. The series is in poor condition.
This series contains awards, certificates, newspaper clippings, and pamphlets. The series is in good condition.
This series contains four scrapbooks. The series is in poor condition.
The McLennan County Office of Price Administration was a local office of the national Office of Price Administration. This was a federal government office which attempted to keep prices stable and set maximum price amounts vendors could charge for essential consumer goods during World War II.
This series contains materials on the McLennan County Office of Price Administration's efforts to regulate "malted beverages" at specific businesses in Waco.
This series contains a war ration book and a certificate of transfer for a vehicle, both issues to a John Allen in Waco.
Ollie Mae Allison Moen was born in 1910 to Elbie Isle Hancock and William Patrick Allison in Osage, Texas. Her family moved to Waco in 1927, and in 1928 she met her future husband, George Moen. The pair married on 1934 May 26, and had their first son, George James Moen, on 1938 November 9.
When George James, called Jim, began first grade at Provident Heights School, Ollie Mae promptly joined the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA). Involvement with this organization sparked the beginning of her interest in education, and was responsible for her exposure to the field of museum work. Her second son, Al Moen, was born on 1951 May 31. Ollie Mae Moen began taking courses at the Institute of Texan Cultures in San Antonio and also began attending meetings of the Texas Museum Association, of which she was an early member. Ollie Mae Moen had a passion for adapting museums for children. As a member of the Waco City Council PTA, she helped the organization open the Youth Cultural Center in 1962. The Youth Cultural Center helped foster learning for the children of Waco through programming and educational materials about science, culture, and history. Mrs. Moen retired from the position of director of the Youth Cultural Center on 1982 December 30. In 1994 the Youth Cultural Center changed its name to the Ollie Mae Moen Discovery Center, in honor of her service to museum education. The Ollie Mae Moen Discovery Center merged into the Mayborn Museum Complex in 2004, which now resides on Baylor University’s campus.
This series contains certificates, handbooks, and notes generated by Ollie Mae Moen.
In 1955 a few wildlife enthusiasts produced an exhibit of native Texas animals for display at the Heart O’ Texas Fair in Waco, Texas. The exhibit garnered so much attention that by the following year the Central Texas Zoological and Botanical Society had formed. The Society worked to raise funds for the construction of a Zoological Park in the Waco area. Though the Society considered Cameron Park as a potential site for the zoo, ultimately, the Central Texas Zoological Park opened on a ten-acre site near the Madison Cooper Municipal Airport. The zoo relied mainly on volunteers to run the zoo and raise funds to cover maintenance. However, the zoo experienced frequent financial troubles and by 1977 the City of Waco took over ownership with the Society operating as boosters. Even with city support, the zoo continued to experience financial difficulties and requested the use of tax funds to continue operating. Soon after the change in ownership, the Society began discussions to build a natural habitat zoo located in Cameron Park, which would replace the outdated cages at the airport location. Dr. Stephen Corwin, a urologist in Waco and long-time member of the Central Texas Zoological Society and former Chairman of the Zoo Board of Directors, initiated efforts to garner support for the zoo move. He presided as Chairman of the Zoo Relocation Committee for the Cameron Park Zoological Society, the new iteration of the Central Texas Zoological Society. Dr. Corwin saw his work come to fruition when, in 1983, the citizens of Waco passed a bond election held in support of the zoo relocation. The new Cameron Park Zoo, located on fifty-two acres of land, opened in the summer of 1993. Since its opening, the zoo has continued building and improving exhibits. Today, the zoo operates as a recreational and educational resource for all and plays a role in supporting wildlife conservation and research.
This series contains administrative documents related to the Cameron Park Zoo, including master plans for the construction of the zoo, contractor bids, professional correspondence, exhibit planning, business contracts, financial expenses, and animal acquisitions. The majority of the documents relate to the planning of the zoo.
This series contains documents related to the marketing strategy of the Cameron Park Zoo, including marketing plans, various bond campaigns, pamphlets, public speeches, and zoo publications. This series also contains items related to zoo publicity, such as newspaper articles about the zoo.
This series contains items related to the financial development of the zoo, including grant applications, recruitment of donors, donor information, donation amounts, lists of potential donors and grants, and documents related to donor recognition.
This series contains documents related to the Central Texas Zoological Park, the predecessor of the Cameron Park Zoo. Materials include administrative documents, professional correspondence, newspaper articles, and zoo publications.
This series contains research materials, including articles about operating non-profit organizations, how to write professionally, and creating financial development strategies, as well as publications from other zoos and professional organizations.
This series includes documents related to the Cameron Park Zoological Society and its predecessor, the Central Texas Zoological and Botanical Society. These documents include administrative materials, such as professional correspondence, committee lists and meeting minutes, and member lists.
The series also includes recruitment information for the societies.
This series contains documents related to the personal life of Dr. Stephen Corwin, including personal correspondence, materials related to his professional practice, brochures for Wake Forest University, and materials related to his son, Tim Corwin.
This series contains photographs and negatives related to the campaign for a zoo in Cameron Park and the early days of the Cameron Park Zoo, photographs of the Central Texas Zoo, and landscape negatives and slides featuring scenes from zoos across the United States.
The [Waco] Blossom Garden Club was a part of a larger network of garden clubs in Waco during the twentieth century and was associated with both the Waco Council of Garden Clubs and District V of Texas Garden Clubs, Inc. Among other activities, the organization hosted a circus themed flower show, entitled "The Greatest Show on Earth," in April 1957.
The series contains photographs and scrapbooks. The series is in poor condition.
Norman Frederick was born on 1916 June 24 in Pennsylvania. He attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, and then served for 4.5 years in the Navy. He married Hayle Wellbaum Frederick in 1944. Frederick became the physical director of the Waco Youth Men's Christian Association (Y.M.C.A.) and served in that position for 10 years, developing his passion for physical education. In 1960 Frederick accepted a position at Baylor, where he taught courses in wrestling, swimming, and volleyball. While at Baylor, Frederick became interested in increasing participation in the university's intramural program. He became the Intramural Director in 1962 and was promoted to Coordinator of Men's and Women's Intramural Sports Programs in 1963. Frederick also participated as Secretary in the Heart of Texas Ramblers organization. Frederick died on 1995 July 1 in McLennan County and is buried in the Greenwood Memorial Park and Mausoleum in Fort Worth, Texas.
This series contains newspaper clippings. The series is in average condition.
This series contains photographs. The series is in average condition.
This series contains a greeting card and notes. The series is in average condition.
Delta Theta Phi is an international academic fraternity for law students. It was founded in Chicago in 1913 through the unification of three earlier organizations, the Delta Phi Delta, Alpha Kappa Phi, and Theta Lambda Phi law fraternities. At the time of unification, Delta Theta Phi had 32 chapters, or “senates”, across the nation. The organization continued to expand internationally when two senates were established in Puerto Rico in 1969. The organization admitted its first female member in 1971. Delta Theta Phi also obtained its own law review, the Adelphia Law Journal, after it merged with Sigma Nu Phi law fraternity in 1989. The Baylor University chapter of Delta Theta Phi, known as the James P. Alexander Senate, was established in 1949.
This series contains of the Delta Theta Phi fraternity. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains the fraternity constitutions and by-laws, membership rolls, and information about organization event. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains the banking statements and accounting books. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains the organizational manuals regarding fraternity traditions and copies of two publications, the "Student Lawyer Journal" and the "Paper Book", the official Delta Theta Phi publication. The condition of the series is good.
The Beall-Russell Lectures are a series of lectures given at Baylor University beginning in 1982 and continuing up to today. The lectures are based in the humanities and cover topics such as history, politics, poetry, and literature. The lectures began after an endowment from Virginia B.
Ball, a graduate of Baylor University. She had the series named after her mother Mrs. John A. Beall and the former dean of women at Baylor, Lily Russell. Ball was a philanthropist who focused on both education and the environment. She was among the founding board members for the Indiana Board of Humanities, served as the trustee emeritus of the Interlochen Center for the Arts, and served as the first female member of the National Wildlife Federation board. She passed away in 2005.
This series contains correspondence between the Beall-Russell Lectures committee and those outside of the university. In particular, these letters include those to Virginia B. Ball who financially endowed the lectures. The condition of the series is excellent.
This series contains the files from the Beall-Russell Lectures committee. These files include correspondence between committee members, meetings from minutes, and event information. The condition of the series is excellent.
The series contains the financial records of the Beall-Russell Lectures. These include budget and expense reports, budget comparisons, and contracts. The condition of the series is good.
This series contains all the promotional materials for the Beall-Russell Lectures. This include posters, brochures, and booklets. The condition of the series is excellent.
This series contains information relating to the speakers of the Beall-Russell Lectures. These include the speaker's curia vita, transcripts of speeches, and biographies. The condition of the series is excellent.
This series contains the audio-visual materials from the Beall-Rusell Lectures. This include VHS tapes and DVDs of the lectures. The condition of the series is excellent.
Melvan Tibbetts (1845-1927), son of Elisha and Christiana Tibbetts of Exeter, Maine, was one of seven children. He enlisted as a Union soldier during the American Civil War. It is worth noting that the 1860 census listed his age as 15, meaning he would be 16 years old at the start of the Civil War, but his enlistment papers claim he was 18 years old. Regardless, he enlisted as a private on December 17, 1861, into Company H, 15th Maine Infantry. The 15th Maine was sent first to occupy newly captured New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1862. In 1863, the unit was posted to various places along the Texas coast, as part of the 13th Corps, 4th Division. The unit participated in the disastrous Red River Campaign in 1864. After the campaign, the unit was reassigned back East. Melvan Tibbetts survived the war. He passed away on November 1, 1927.
This series contains letters written to and from Melvan Tibbetts, a Union soldier in the American Civil War. The series is in good condition.
 Sylvester Purl Kirk (1828-1874), son of William A. A. and Ann R. Clark Kirk, was born in 1828 August. Between 1852 and 1855, he moved from Mississippi and settled in Bell County. At some point, he married Eliza Jane White Kirk Grimes (1837-1916), who was originally from Alabama. The couple had three children: Alice Kirk (born 1859), Laura Kirk (1861-1951), and Viola Kirk (born 1866). In 1862 May, he enlisted in the Confederate Army and was a member of Company I, 17th Texas Infantry Regiment. He was company wagon master in 1864. Kirk died in Bell County on 1874 December 11. His wife remarried three years later to James Grimes on 1877 December 25.
 This series contains one folder of transcribed and typed letters to and from Sylvester Purl and Eliza Jane White Kirk.
 David Milling (1797-1867), a native of County Down, Northern Ireland, owned a plantation in Fairfield County, South Carolina. He and his first wife (probably a cousin), Jane Wright Milling Milling (1806-1847), had six children together: John R. Milling (1825-1864), Dr. James S. Milling (1831- 1895), David Y. Milling, Jr. (1833-1895), Thomas H. Milling (born 1840), William Milling (born 1842), and Margaret Milling (born 1844). Jane Wright Milling Milling died in 1847. David Milling later married Sarah Yongue Milling (1823-1893). David and Sarah Milling had five children together: Robert Russell Milling (1844-1893), Andrew Yongue Milling (1851-1909), Mary Agnes Milling Lemmon (1854-1934), G. Ladson H. Milling (1860-1935), Lenora E. Milling Macfie (1864-1936). Two of Milling’s sons, David Y. Milling, Jr. and John Milling, moved to Texas prior to the Civil War. They settled in Anderson County, Texas. These two, plus William, all served in the American Civil War on the Confederate side. John R. and William Milling both enlisted in Company D, 6th South Carolina Infantry, John as a 1st Lieutenant and William as a sergeant. John, a soldier in the Boyce Guards of the 6th South Carolina Infantry, died in the war in 1864. James S. Milling studied at the Medical College of South Carolina until 1854 and married his cousin Mary (1828-1913) in 1857. Two years later he moved his plantation to Bossier Parish, Louisiana. Throughout the American Civil War, Mary and their children stayed in South Carolina, but moved to Louisiana in 1866.
 Arranged chronologically. Letters among members of the Milling family around and during the time of the American Civil War.
Arranged chronologically. Contracts, receipts, and other financial documents from around the time of the American Civil War.
One Confederate Veteran magazine from 1997 with article about James A. Milling.
William Withers traveled through Texas in 1866 on a trip from Greensboro, Alabama, to Galveston, Texas. The purpose of his trip is not known.
This series contains a travel diary by William Withers as he traveled across Texas in 1866. This series is in good condition.
Frank Daniel Stasny was born on 1895 April 6 in Kovar, Texas. His parents, Martin Stasny and Rosina Kovar Stasny, were both born in the Czech Republic. Stasny was a teacher at the Stasny School in the Kovar community. Frank and his wife Agnes, had no children but adopted and reared seven children. Census records list his profession as a farmer in Bastrop County. He held an office in the Slovansk Podporujici Jednota Statu Texas, a Texas Czechs fraternal benefit society that worked to reinforce a sense of Czech cultural identity. He died on 1977 March 20 and is buried in the Kovar Catholic Cemetery in Bastrop County, Texas.
This series contains postcards and correspondences.
This series contains financial ledgers, general ledgers, receipts, contracts, deeds, leases, and land maps.
This series contains school notebooks, sympathy cards, pamphlets, award ribbons, cufflinks and a tobacco bag.
This series contains photographs of the Stasny family and other unidentified people.
Anthony Garland Adair was born in Queen City, Texas on 1889 March 28, the son of J.B. And Mattie (Palmer) Adair. He attended Wesley College in Terrell, Texas and the University of Texas, then entered the army in 1917. On 1918 September 1 he was commissioned as a second lieutenant. A few weeks later, on 1918 September 22, Adair married Gladys Marie Ingram, a schoolteacher from Texarkana. Together, the couple had three children: two daughters and a son. Following World War I, Adair edited and published newspapers across the state in Hico, Mexia, Breckenridge, and McCamey. He was named a delegate to national Democratic conventions twice; in 1920 from Hico and in 1924 from Mexia. Adair became active in the American Legion and was named commander of the Fifth Division in 1930. In 1932, he moved to Austin and assumed the duties of department historian for this branch of the American Legion. He was named chairman of the Centennial Committee of the American Legion of Texas in 1935. The committee sponsored legislation to authorize the organization of a state museum. Adair came up with the idea to sell souvenir coins to raise money for this project. Fifty cent silver coins commemorating the Texas Centennial were minted by the federal government for the fundraiser and the sales of these coins garnered approximately $92,000. Upon the opening of the Texas Memorial Museum, Adair was named curator of patriotic exhibits. Later, he became curator of history at the museum, and he held the position until his retirement in 1959. He coauthored several books about Texas, including Under Texas Skies. Anthony Adair was an honorary life member of the Sons of the Republic of Texas, as well as a life member of the Texas State Historical Association, a fellow of the Texas Academy of Science, and a member of the Texas Press Association. He was a member of the Knights of the Order of San Jacinto and executive director of the Texas Heritage Foundation. Adair died in Temple, Texas on 1966 December 14 and is buried in the State Cemetery in Austin.
This series contains personal and professional correspondence to and from Anthony G. Adair. The series is in good condition.
This series contains biographical information about Anthony G. Adair. The series is in good condition.
The series consists of various transcripts and reports written or commissioned by Anthony G. Adair for the Texas Memorial Museum. The series is in good condition.
The series contains materials produced for and about the Texas Memorial Museum. The series is in good condition.
Frank Bowden Chilton was born on 1845 February 7 in Marion, Alabama, to Reverend Thomas and Louisa Chilton. Reverend Thomas Chilton, in addition to being a Baptist minister, was also an attorney, politician, and co-author of Davy Crockett's autobiography. The Chilton family moved to Houston, Texas, around 1851. At the beginning of the Civil War in 1861, Frank Chilton enlisted in Company H, 4th Texas Infantry. He was 16 years old. As part of the famous Hood's Texas Brigade operating in northern Virginia, Chilton's military unit became known as one of the hardest fighting and most feared units in the war. Wounded and honorably discharged in 1862 September, directly after the Peninsula Campaign, and during a severe illness, Chilton returned to Texas. After recovering, he enlisted again, and served in the 2nd Texas Cavalry under John Robert Baylor. After being wounded again, he became Post Commander and Provost Marshal at Navasota, Texas, and Ordnance Officer in Brenham, Texas. At the end of the war, in 1865 April, Frank Chilton married Annie Briscoe Chilton (1844-1881). The Chilton family lived in Fort Bend County, Texas, farming and operating a steam mill and cotton gin. Frank Chilton read law and was admitted to the bar in 1874. Frank and Annie Chilton had one child, Mary Louise Chilton Bryan (1877-1973), born on 1877 October 23. Annie Chilton passed away in 1881. Their second child, born in 1881, also passed away that same year. Following the loss of his wife and child, Frank Chilton and his four year old daughter moved to Marlin, Texas. He married Emma Belle Preston Chilton (1861-1884) in 1882. They had one daughter, Annie Chilton Spann (1882-1969), born on 1882 December 6. Three months later, on 1884 March 6, Emma B. Preston Chilton passed away, leaving Frank Chilton with two daughters under 7 years of age. Frank Bowden Chilton was heavily involved in the post-war veterans reunion movement after the Civil War. He was most involved with the Hood's Texas Brigade Association, but also participated in other Confederate veteran reunions. He led the effort to construct a monument on the Capital grounds in Austin, Texas, to Hood's Texas Brigade. Chilton's other activities include being a member of the Board of Trustees for Waco University in 1885, delegate to the New Orleans Exposition in 1885, executive committee member of the Texas Immigration Association, and general manager of the Southern Inter-state Immigration Bureau. Both immigration organization to which he belonged sought to attract industries to Texas and other southern states. Frank Bowden Chilton passed away in Houston on 1926 May 20 after an extended illness. He is buried in Willis Cemetery in Montgomery County, Texas.
This series contains letters to and from Frank Bowden Chilton to family members and friends. Many of them contain information on the reunions of Hood's Texas Brigade Association, from arranging the annual reunions to compiling information on members about their service in the war. This series is in good condition.
This series contains various files on people, places, groups, and events during Chilton's life. Of note are the files on Hood's Texas Brigade and the Hood's Texas Brigade Association, immigration, Civil War topics, and the Colorado Lake Chautauqua Association. This series is in fair condition.
This series contains photographs of family, friends, events, and other topics. Various postcards are also present in the series. This series is in fair condition.
This series includes materials collected by Frank Chilton or his immediate family. Most of the materials are print materials kept by the family, but not actively created or preserved by them like the subject files. About a third are Civil War related materials. This series is in fair condition.
This series includes many scrapbooks on various topics, including Texas and the South, Civil War, and family poetry and notebooks. The Hood's Texas Brigade scrapbooks contain materials on veterans reunions, letters from veterans, and other information from the war and afterward. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains primarily post-Civil War reunion artifacts, including a key to the city that was presented to the veterans, ribbons and stamps, and a letter opener. The stamps are large printing plates that would have been used to create stationery with that specific design stamped into the paper. Some correspondence can be found in the collection that was stamped with the stamps preserved in this collection. This series is in good condition.
Delta Sigma Pi was founded at New York University in 1907 by Alexander Frank Makay, Alfred Moysello, Henry Albert Tienken, and Harold Valentine Jacobs. These four students set to graduate in 1909, sought to create a business fraternity that valued scholarship, social activity, and affiliation between the world of commerce and its members. At the time there were only a handful of business schools in the United States and The School of Commerce, Accounts, and Finance was one. In 1908 the name Delta Sigma Pi was adopted, and the by-laws were approved, with the Fraternity’s badge and colors approved quickly thereafter. In 1975 Delta Sigma Pi became the first business fraternity to initiate women. Today nearly 300 universities and colleges in the United States, Canada, and Mexico are part of the Delta Sigma Pi network. The Beta Iota Chapter of Delta Sigma Pi at Baylor University began on December 9th, 1930 with nineteen initiates, both majors of business and graduates of the institution. Currently Baylor University’s premier professional business fraternity, this chapter aims to develop professional business leaders and create strong relationships with the Hankamer School of Business at Baylor University.
This series is the largest series within the collection and contains administrative records of Beta Iota, including by-laws, pledge manuals, membership information and information related to good standing and job placement. This series is in good condition.
This series contains Beta Iota chapter minutes and proceedings from Grand Chapter Congresses. This series is in good condition.
This series contains Beta Iota formal events, advertisements, banners and newspaper clippings. This series is in good condition.
This series contains invitations and replies to Beta Iota events. This series is in good condition.
In 1995 the Baylor University Board of Regents approved changing the name of the Tryon Foundation to the Baylor Foundation. The Tryon Foundation was named after Baylor’s co-founder William M. Tryon and was used by the university for holding and distributing funds. It had been in existence since 1981. The Tryon Foundation, now Baylor Foundation is a non-profit organization with tax exemption status. In 1995 Baylor University endowment assets were transferred to the Baylor Foundation and a board of twelve directors was elected to manage the foundation funds. A CEO was chosen by the university as a paid employee to manage the foundation as well. The purpose of the Baylor Foundation was to accept endowment gifts for the university, hold legal title to those assets, and manage those assets.
This series contains bylaws, articles of incorporation, directories and meeting minutes. This series is in excellent condition. All but the “Directories” folder of this series is restricted.
This series includes correspondence, primarily e-mails discussing Baylor Foundation finances. This series is in excellent condition. This series is restricted.
This series includes the Baylor Foundation financial records, investment research, and meeting presentations. The one unusual format in this series is a presentation printed on 8.5 x 11" transparency film for use on an overhead projector. This series is restricted. This series is in excellent condition.
The Baptist Student Union (BSU) was a national organization with branches at college campuses across the country. It was created out of a need to promote Baptist values, beliefs, and culture among college students. In the early 20th century, there were attempts to address this need through both inter-denominational organizations such as the Young Men’s Christian Academy (Y.M.C.A.) and Baptist groups such as the Baptist Student Mission Movement. The origins of the Baptist Student Union itself can be traced back to what became known as the “Baylor Prayer Covenant”, a pact made by six male students on the campus of Baylor University on 1905 October 21 to pray for an organization that would promote Baptist religion on campus. Appeals for an organization were made to the Baptist General Convention of Texas (BGCT). After consulting with students, the “Baptist Student Union” was formally established by the BGCT at the Palacios Encampment in 1920 July. Early organizations like the Baptist Student Missions Movement were absorbed into the BSU. Baylor University’s branch of the BSU was founded in 1920. The Baylor BSU branch hosted a variety of events, including student revivals, Focus Week, school retreats, and charity events. The organization also sponsored missionary activity both in the United States as well as abroad. Programs for international students was also an important priority for the BSU. The organization is currently known as Baptist Student Ministries (BSM) and continues to operate on Baylor's campus today.
This series contains correspondence related to the BSU director, executive council, and organization events. This series is in good condition.
This series contains materials relating to the events, ministries, and programs put on by the BSU. This series is in good condition.
This series contains the budgets and treasurer reports of the Baptist Student Union. This series is in good condition.
The series contains the event programs and newsletters of the Baptist Student Union. This series is in good condition.
This series contains materials relating to the Executive Council and its meetings, the various committees, and other demographics. This series is in good condition.
This series contains photographs of Baptist Student Union events and members. This series is in good condition.
In 1949, the Gilmer-Akins laws were passed which instituted different standards of pay for teachers depending on their level of education. This led many teachers to return to college in order to further their educations. By 1955, a bachelor’s degree was considered the minimum for those seeking certification. As the Texas Educational Agency continued to expand the requirements for certification during the 1950's-1980’s, Baylor University's School of Education (SOE) began to work towards meeting the new state standards. In 1959, the SOE joined the American Association of Colleges of Teacher Organization. It also continued to expand by hiring more faculty, offer professional development to local teachers, integrating the Department of Health, Physical Education, and Recreation into the SOE, and in 1976 moved the school into new facilities located at the Draper Academic Building. Through the 1960s-1970s, the SOE also visited by teams from the Texas Educational Agency who provided feedback and recommendations for their program. By 1975-1976, the SOE had seen 489 graduates become certified through their program. The SOE continues to offer certifications to Baylor education students to this day This series contains the state publications relating to teacher certification that Baylor University used to revise its program. This series condition is excellent.
This series contains the reports made by Baylor University to the Texas Educational Agency on their teacher certification programs. The condition of the series is excellent.
The Alpha Lambda Delta National Honor Society was originally founded as an honor society for freshmen women in 1924 at the University of Illinois by Maria Leonard, Dean of Women. The organization then spread to become a national organization when a chapter was charted at Purdue University in 1926. Its first national convention was held at the University of Illinois in 1930. In 1938, it was decided that the organization would begin to offer scholarships to promising graduate students. Alpha Lambda Delta remained as a single sex organization until 1976 where it became co-educational in response to changes made by Title IX. The Baylor chapter was founded on 29 April 1958 and continues to operate to this day.
This series contains correspondence, chapter files, literary productions and the financial documents of the Baylor chapter. The series is in good condition.
This series includes a travel diary with notes and commentary from a California to Texas automobile trip. This series is in good condition.
William Patton White was born in 1834 and lived near Gainesville, Alabama. He and his wife, Mary J. White, were the parents of three children. During the American Civil War he was a private in Company A of the 36th Alabama Infantry. White is believed to have died in 1864 December from a wound he received at the Battle of Missionary Ridge.
This series contains various letters written from William Patton White primarily to his wife Mary White in Alabama. There are a few letters at the end of the series describing White's whereabouts, presumably because his wife Mary White had heard he had passed away, but was not sure of the details. This series is in excellent condition.
The Baylor University Committee on Committees is charged with nominating eligible faculty and staff to fill vacancies on university-wide committees. The committee reviews committee descriptions and advises the Faculty Senate on adding new committees, revising existing committees, or eliminating current committees. The committee reports to the Provost and Faculty Senate. The committee is comprised of three faculty representatives from the College of Arts and Sciences and one representative from each of the other academic units on campus. The Chair of the Faculty Senate, the Chair of Staff Council, and the President of Baylor Student Government serve as ex-officio members.
This series contains general files as well as meeting minutes, correspondence, and reports. This series is in good condition.
This series includes three folders relating to the Self-Study Subcommittee on the Faculty and Committees (SSS) and Senate Committee on the committee on Committees (CCC). This series is in good condition.
In 1976, Baylor University hosted a variety of free public programs to celebrate the United States' Bicentennial. Abner McCall, Baylor University's president at the time, formed a Bicentennial Committee in 1973 to coordinate university events to commemorate the bicentennial. Baylor received funding from the Texas College Bicentennial Program to host a Bicentennial Lecture Series, which brought speakers from across the country to discuss America's history.
The Guardian Angels of the Armstrong Browning Library was established under the direction of Dr. Andrew Joseph Armstrong, the founder and director of Armstrong Browning Library who also served as Chairman of the Baylor English Department from 1912 until 1952. The efforts to build the Armstrong Browning Library began in 1943, when Baylor’s 9th president, Pat Neff, offered Dr. Armstrong $100,000 towards the construction of a separate building to house the entirety of Dr. Armstrong’s Browning collections. Neff challenged Dr. Armstrong to raise the remaining funds for this project, which lead to the establishment of the Guardian Angels. The name for the patron organization of the library is a homage to Robert Browning’s poem “The Guardian Angel”. Following the formation of the Guardian Angels, the Guardian Angel Fund was established to enable the library to have consistent funding. The organization still exists today.
Abner Vernon McCall was born on 1915 June 9 in Perrin, Texas, to parents Gertrude Elizabeth Rhoades McCall and Harry Vernon McCall. At the age of 3, McCall’s father passed away from the flu. After his death, his mother was unable to care for McCall and his siblings and they were placed in the Masonic School and Home in Fort Worth, Texas. Although not much is known about Abner’s early life at this school, it is well known that Abner flourished academically. Graduating as the Valedictorian of his class, Abner earned the prestigious Masonic Scholarship, providing him the funding to attend Baylor University. Continuing his successes at Baylor, McCall graduated as valedictorian of the Baylor Law Class of 1938. Entering law practice, McCall remained near Baylor to teach law classes, serving as an assistant professor from 1938 to 1942. He left Baylor for a year to earn a Masters of Law at the University of Michigan. After receiving his degree, he worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for three years before returning to Baylor. Two years after his return, he was appointed Dean of the Law School. During his time teaching, he also was appointed a Texas Supreme Court Justice in 1956 June by then Governor Allan Shivers. By 1959, McCall was appointed Executive Vice President of Baylor University. In 1961, McCall was appointed President of Baylor University, a position he held for 21 years. During his tenure at Baylor, he was instrumental in expanding Baylor’s campus, raising the enrollment numbers, and improving the financial conditions of the university. While McCall was president, he continued to teach law courses. In 1981, McCall became the Chancellor of Baylor. He served in this capacity until 1985, then served as President Emeritus. McCall was known for his traditional Baptist views on social issues pertaining to campus life, including dancing, alcohol, and card playing. He served in many religious organizations in a variety of capacities, including President of the Baptist General Convention of Texas in 1964-1965 and Vice President of the Southern Baptist Convention in 1979-1980. Growing up surrounded by Masons, McCall was also involved in the Masonic Order and was coronated a 33rd degree Scottish Rite Mason in 1969. In 1991, McCall was honored with the Grand Cross, the highest honor granted to a Free Mason. McCall passed away at the age of 90 on 1995 June 11 and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series includes meeting minutes from the various Baylor Board of Trustees, as well as correspondence and other related materials. During McCall's presidency, the Board of Trustees underwent several changes. The Board of Trustees included 48 members elected by the Baptist General Convention of Texas. These members were divided between three boards: a Houston board responsible for the Baylor College of Medicine, a Dallas board responsible for the Baylor Medical Center, College of Dentistry, and School of Nursing, and a Waco board responsible for the main Baylor campus. All three boards met together twice a year as the "General Board." In 1968, the trustees voted to create a separate corporation with a separate board to handle the affairs of the College of Medicine in Houston, thereby replacing the need for the Houston board. The College of Dentistry underwent a similar process in 1971, but it is unclear when the Dallas board officially dissolved. At some point in 1971, the General Board became known simply as the Board of Trustees and met bimonthly. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, and other materials relating to the inner-workings of Baylor. Materials produced specifically for Baylor or by Baylor departments, organizations, and individuals can be found in this series. Some files are restricted due to the existence of personally identifiable information, or based on the current restriction policy governing university archives. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, publications, programs, and other materials relating to institutions and organizations outside of Baylor University. Some materials are related to McCall as an individual and his interests and affiliations, while others are directly related to his presidency. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence and their attachments. The series is organized alphabetically by last name. The last name used to organize the files, in some cases, is the name of an individual discussed in the correspondence rather than the correspondent. Any individual with a folder specifically labeled with their name was a folder that was retained from the original order. All other materials were found in miscellaneous folders and put into alphabetical order by last name according to the name written at the top of each piece of paper. This series is in poor condition.
This series includes personal files kept with McCall's presidential materials as well as his appointment books, correspondence relating to engagements McCall was asked to attend, letters labeled by their tone (critical, "onion", or "orchid"), speeches, telegrams received and sent, and desk memorabilia such as plaques and trinkets. For a more detailed list of desk memorabilia, please contact the University Archivist. Letters labeled as "onion" letters were typically critical in tone while letters labeled as "orchid" were complimentary. This series is in average condition.
Baylor University's Communications/Media Committee is a university committee that reviews publication and non-print media proposals submitted by individuals and organizations to assure compliance with University publication guidelines and to provide quality control. There are twelve faculty members and one student representative on the committee. The committee reports to the Vice President for University Relations and the Associate Vice President for External Relations.
This series included memos regarding meetings and correspondence regarding committee work. This series is in good condition.
This series includes proposals and publications submitted to the committee for review. This series is in good condition.
Jay Otis Harston was born 1899 October 28 in Grand Prairie, Texas. He attended Tarrelton Military Academy followed by Burleson College and Baylor University. Harston played football and baseball at Burleson College prior to attending Baylor University to do the same. However, in 1920 Harston signed a professional baseball contract to play with a team in Dallas, which rendered him ineligible to play any sport at Baylor due to NCAA rules. Although he was unable to play, J. O. Harston still participated at Baylor. He was the head coach for the Cub freshmen baseball team as well as assistant to Frank Bridges on the varsity squad. Harston served as student manager for the 1922 Southwest Conference football team which earned him a varsity letter. Harston graduated from Baylor in 1923 and became one of the founders of the Baylor Bear Club. He was a fisherman and hunter as well as Funeral Director at Compton’s Funeral Home in Waco, Texas. Jay O. Harston died 1964 June 17 and is buried at Oakwood Cemetery in Waco.
The Printed Material series is dated 1919-1952. Included are certificates, newspaper clippings, pocket schedules, tickets, and several Baylor publications. This series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
The Photographs series contains mostly undated material. All are group photos, mostly of J.O. Harston on various teams. The series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
Ima Joy Chodorow Gandler was born 1929 October 25 in Waco, Texas, to Nathan and Miriam Borschow Chodorow. She was a 1946 Waco High School graduate and attended the University of Texas. Ima Joy Chodorow married Jacob E. "Jake" Gandler on 1950 June 25 and they had three children; Sharlane Michaele, Laura, and Howard. As an active member of Waco Temple Rodef Sholom, Ima Joy Gandler began collecting materials on Texas Jewish Culture in the 1970s as the Temple neared its 100th Anniversary. She began with a local archive to document each confirmation class and moved on to document the history of the Waco Jewish Community as well as Jewish Communities across Texas. In 1980 Ima Joy became a founding member of the Texas Jewish Historical Society and promoted the interest of Texas Jewish History locally, throughout Texas, and the United States. She was also an active member in organizations such as the National Council of Jewish Women, National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods, Jewish Federation of Waco and Central Texas, and the Greater Waco Interfaith Conference. Her participation often included the role of archivist, board member, or other governing title.
 In addition to her religious interests, Gandler used her research skills to further her genealogical searches and help others do the same. In doing so she was able to collect several family histories from the Waco Jewish Community. Ima Joy was also a patron of the arts and enjoyed travel. She regularly supported the Waco Hippodrome Theatre as a season ticket holder and visited larger cities such as Dallas and New York to attend shows as well. Ima Joy Gandler died on 2010 January 25. She is buried at Rodef Sholom Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
The Family series is dated 1900-2006 and contains records and general information regarding Ima Joy’s Borschow, Chodorow, and Gandler relatives. Materials include legal documents, photographs, newspaper clippings, correspondence, certificates and ledgers. The series is arranged alphabetically and is in good condition.
The Personal series, dated 1876-2009, documents the works, interests, and life of Ima Joy Gandler. Clippings, photographs, annual reports, newsletters, invitations, correspondence, greeting cards, research notes, pamphlets, and other printed material are included. The series is arranged alphabetically by topic and is in good condition.
The Genealogy series, dated 1827 -2009, includes items such as legal documents, immigration papers, birth announcements, obituaries, and newspaper clippings. Also included are certificates and invitations for various events including confirmations, bar/bat mitzvahs, weddings, and birthdays.
Photographs and reproduction photographs have been included as well. The series is arranged alphabetically by family surname. The series is in good condition.
The Organizations series is dated 1873-2009. Newsletters, correspondence, research materials, bulletins, and clippings make up the bulk of the items. Other materials include guestbooks, clippings, directories, minutes, announcements, and other printed material. The series is arranged alphabetically by organization and is in good condition.
The General series is dated 1924-1996. Title abstracts, property records, correspondence, clippings, research notes, committee engagement notes, organizational directories, and handbooks are present. The series is in alphabetical order and in good condition.
Robert Glenn Winchester and his twin brother, William Penn Winchester, were born 1905 December 18 just outside Waco, Texas, in what is now Robinson. Their parents were Mary Katherine Moore Winchester, originally of Atlanta, Georgia, and Robert Stevenson Winchester, born in Union County, North Carolina. R. S. Winchester worked for the railroad which relocated his family to Texas, spending time in Waco and Yoakum. The Winchester’s also had a younger brother, Albert.R. G. Winchester was a Waco High School (1923) and Baylor University (1927) graduate. In 1955 he helped his mother fund a newspaper reading room in the Baylor Libraries to honor his late twin brother, William Winchester, who died in a bus-train accident while attending Baylor. In 1971, Winchester authored a book, James Pinckney Henderson: Texas’ First Governor; this was the first biography written about Pinckney. Robert G. Winchester was a longtime teacher and Principal at Yoakum High School in Yoakum, Texas. Shortly before his death in 1980 a senior scholarship was created in his honor, “The Robert G. Winchester Outstanding Citizen Award.” Winchester died 1980 August 19 and is interred at Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
The General series, dated 1911-1972, includes clippings, programs and announcements, correspondence, and several oversize newspaper items. Also included are certificates, letters of recommendation, and printed materials. The series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
The Baylor University series, 1924-1945, includes general university related clippings as well as those related to athletics and the “Immortal Ten.” Other items include ticket stubs, rosters, and general memorabilia. The series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
The Waco Shakespeare Club series, dated 1923-1949, includes several Shakespeare inspired card games, art prints from a trip to Stratford-on-Avon, and club by-laws. Also included are event programs, personal writings, and a book of quotations. Items are arranged alphabetically and in average to good condition.
The Photographs series, dated 1855-1966, includes several generations from the Moore and Winchester families. Weddings, graduations, accomplishments, individual and family portraits are included. The series is arranged alphabetically and is in good condition.
Robert Porter “Buddy” Tinsley, Jr. was born on 1924 August 19 in Damon, Texas. He was a standout football player at Barbers Hill High School in Mount Belvieu, Texas. At the age of 17 he enlisted in the Navy hoping to be a pilot, however, his size prevented this. Tinsley was stationed at Corpus Christi, Texas from 1942-1945 and was honorably discharged with the rank of sergeant. Buddy Tinsley played college football at Baylor University from 1946-1948. He was listed as a center early in his career, but was known for his position play at both offensive and defensive tackle. In 1948, his senior season, Tinsley was named co-captain of the bruin squad and received All-Conference honors. His performance led to his 7th Round selection (54th overall) in the 1948 NFL draft by the Philadelphia Eagles. Despite being drafted by an NFL team, Tinsley played for the Los Angeles Dons of the All-American Football Conference in 1949. After that season the AAFC went out of business, which led to Tinsley’s signing with the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League. He played eleven seasons with the Bombers, was team captain for ten years, a seven-time Western All-Star, and two-time Grey Cup winner. These honors were topped by Hall of Fame inductions by Barber’s Hill High School, Baylor Athletics, Canadian Football, and the Winnipeg Blue Bombers. In retirement, Buddy Tinsley ran several businesses, was active with the Shriner’s, and enjoyed hunting and fishing. As a naturalized Canadian citizen, and Texan, he spent the latter years of his life wintering in Texas and summering in Canada. Tinsley was married to Hazel Stevens Tinsley until her death in 1993; they had two children, Jack and Cindy. He was remarried in 1994 to Jean Laughlin Tinsley. Buddy Tinsley died 2011 September 14 in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada, and is buried in West Columbia, Texas.
The Printed Material series, dated 1947-1949, holds materials such as magazines, event programs and guides, Baylor Student Yells and Songs, and a student directory. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Photographs and memorabilia series, dated 1947-1948, holds photographs, drawings, a scrapbook, and general memorabilia such as pocket schedules and ticket stubs. Also included is a kicking shoe. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
Joseph Jeffries Wilson, or J.J. Wilson (1905-1989), was born on 1905 August 27 to parents Bertrust T. Wilson Sr. (1868-1934) and Harriet Jeffries Bailey Wilson (1868-1953) in Waco, Texas. Bertrust Wilson, who had received a master's degree in mathematics at age nineteen, had been a professor at Guadalupe College and Central Texas College before becoming principal at A.J. Moore High School in Waco.J.J. Wilson's early education included attending A.J. Moore High School in Waco, obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree from Bishop College in Marshall, Texas, and a Master of Arts degree from Kansas University. He received a doctoral degree in 1954 from Paul Quinn College. He also helped his brother with a family business, the Wilson Rug Laundry. Wilson also married Margaret H. Wilson (1908-2009). The couple had one daughter, Kathy Wilson Goss. In 1934, Wilson's father passed away while still in charge of A.J. Moore High School, leading to J.J. Wilson becoming the next principal of A.J. Moore. For the next thirty-seven years, he led A.J. Moore High School to academic success, with many high school students finding that their schooling at A.J. Moore prepared them well for life and further academic pursuits. In 1971, with the closing of A.J. Moore High School, Wilson became assistant superintendent for secondary schools in Waco. It is unknown how long he held this position. Professor J.J. Wilson passed away on 1989 October 6 and is buried in Doris Miller Memorial Park in Waco, Texas. Margaret Wilson lived on until passing on 2009 October 5. She is also buried in Doris Miller Memorial Park.
This series contains correspondence, financial, and legal documents to do with J.J. Wilson or his family. This series is in good condition.
This series contains resources related to Joseph Jeffries Wilson's extended family, especially financial matters related to his mother after his father had already passed away. This series is in average condition.
This series contains information relating to A.J. Moore High School, where Professor J.J. Wilson served as principal for thirty-seven years. This series is in good condition.
The Peerless Wire & Fence Company was based out of Adrian, Michigan. Before assuming that name, it was referred to as the Lamb Wire Fence Company. The Peerless Wire & Fence Company had three factories based out of Cleveland, Ohio, Adrian, Michigan, and Memphis, Tennessee. At some point, they must have also had a business office in San Angelo, Texas. They prided themselves on supplying fences, gates, barbed wire, posts, roofing, and paints directly from factory to farmer.
This series contains correspondence and pamphlets. The series is in poor condition.
Harry Lee Woodyard was born on 1893 May 10 in Bowie County, Texas. He served as a corporal in battery E of the 131st Field Artillery in the First World War. Returning to Waco after the conflict, he became a member of the Waco Typographical Union No. 188. He died on 1965 August 27 at the age of 72. He is buried in Rosemound Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series contains the Christmas edition of the trail log of the 131st Field Artillery. The series is in poor condition.
Staggs and Company, Incorporated, was a ranching supplier based out of Henrietta, Texas. One of their most popular products was a branding table that created a more efficient process for branding, dehorning, or otherwise working with individual calves.
The series contains correspondence, an order form, testimonials, and pamphlets. The series is in good condition.
A.C. Bowles enlisted in the 6th Missouri Cavalry during the American Civil War. The 6th Missouri Cavalry, part of the Confederate army in the Trans-Mississippi, stayed west of the Mississippi for the duration of the war. Near the end of the war, his unit was in Camp Fulton, Arkansas. Bowles apparently survived the war, as he attended a veterans' reunion in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1911.
This series contains one transcription of a letter written by A.C. Bowles in 1865. The transcript is in good condition.
George C. Burch (1840-1916) was born on 1840 July 29 in Augusta, Georgia. He enlisted into Company B, 1st Florida Infantry, as a Confederate soldier at the beginning of the American Civil War. He began the war as a private, but was promoted to corporal on 1863 November 1. Less than one month later, he was wounded in the leg at the Battle of Missionary Ridge and taken prisoner by the Union army. He spent the rest of the war in prison at Fort Delaware. After the war, he returned to Florida. He served as a property appraiser for a time, and married Mary Elizabeth Davis Burch (1849-1907) on 1873 January 28. They had two children together: John Barney Burch, Sr. (1876-1961) and James Edward (Eddy) Burch. Mary Elizabeth Davis Burch passed away on 1907 November 19 and was buried in Woodlawn Cemetery, Perry, Florida. George C. Burch lived on until 1916 August 10. He was also buried in Woodlawn Cemetery.
This series contains copies of letters and one original letter written by George C. Burch to his sister during the Civil War. This series is in good condition.
Baylor University's Aerospace Studies Department was founded in July 1948 as a partnership between the United States Air Force and Baylor University, making it one of the first founded after the establishment of the Air Force as a separate branch of the military. The department is in charge of the Baylor University Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) program. Air Force ROTC Detachment 810 is still in operation today.
This series consist primarily of correspondence between the Aerospace Studies Department administration and cadets. The bulk is made up of daily orders and special orders. Of note is the folder of materials prepared for the visit of Air Force Brigadier General Daniel "Chappie" James to Waco in 1972.
This series contains scrapbooks prepared by the department for various graduating classes. They consist primarily of photographs and news clippings. Of particular interest is the 1942-1943 scrapbook, which detailed the exploits of Baylor students in World War II. Although there is no information included, it is likely that it was assembled by one of the officers later assigned to Baylor when the Aerospace Studies Department was founded.
This series contains photographic material documenting the Aerospace Studies Department’s events. The majority of the material is dedicated to awards ceremonies and parades. Of particular interest are the photographs of the AFROTC Rifle Team (undated).
This series contains literary productions produced by the Aerospace Studies Department, primarily taking the form of textbooks and student newsletters. There is one subseries of newspaper clippings.
Baylor University's Museum Studies Department has been educating students in the field of museology since 1979. In that year, undergraduate courses were taught by employees of the Strecker Museum. By 1984, the program had received enough interest that the number of classes offered increased and the program expanded, allowing students to pursue either an undergraduate degree in Museum Studies. In 1993, Baylor officially recognized the museum studies program as an academic department. During that same year, the department launched its graduate degree program and offered students the option to pursue a Masters of Arts in Museum Studies with a concentration in administration. The program continues to operate today, offering courses to both undergraduates and graduate students but only granting master degrees.
This series contains correspondence from T. Lindsay Baker, who was the curator of the Gov. Bill and Vara Daniel Historic Village, a lecturer in the department, and director of Academic Programs and Graduate Studies. It also contains correspondence from the museum studies department and the Strecker Museum. The series is in excellent condition.
This series contains the administrative files of the museum studies department which includes financial records, student and faculty records, and course information. The series is in excellent condition.
This series contains materials related to the Strecker Museum such as financial records, materials related to donors, and materials related to museum accreditation. The series is in excellent condition.
The Emmy Parrish Lecture Series is a semi-annual lecture in American Studies, hosted by Baylor University’s history department and was established in 1991 in honor of Frances “Emmy” Parrish. Emmy’s husband, Tom Z. Parrish established the lecture series to honor her efforts in the Waco community. Emmy was a public-school teacher in Waco for over 20 years and a Baylor Trip Camp counselor. The Emmy Parrish Lecture Series continues today and has covered everything from the history of jazz music to the American Civil War.
This series contains materials relating to invited lecture speakers, such as correspondence, copies of lectures, and programs. This series is in good condition.
Baylor University's Recreational Sports Department, now known as Campus Recreation, engages students and the Baylor community in experiential learning, recreational and leisure activities that equip individuals to live balanced, holistic and healthy lifestyles. The vision of the Intramural Sports Program at Baylor University is to provide students with a variety of recreational opportunities that allow them to become engaged in healthy competition while developing and maintaining character, integrity, respect, social skills, and sportsmanship.
This series contains one report from the department. This series is in excellent condition.
Established in 1979, the Center for Community Research and Development (CCRD) is a multidisciplinary entity whose mission is to engage Baylor faculty and students in applied social research to improve the local quality of life. Since its foundation in 1979, the CCRD has expanded and now engages in research at the local, state and national levels. Currently, the CCRD is linked with Baylor University’s Ph.D. programs in Applied Sociology, with PhD candidates serving as center research analysts.
This series contains three separate community needs assessments, including Corpus Christi Baptist Association, Abilene Baptist Association, and Burnet Llano Baptist Association. This series is in good condition.
Baylor University's University Research Committee is charged with promoting and encouraging faculty research and external funding of that research, as well as distributing funds for the support of scholarly research projects. The committee reports to the Vice Provost for Research and is comprised of twelve at-large members appointment by the Committee on Committees. The Vice Provost for Research, Director of the Office of Sponsored Programs and Contracts, Dean of Libraries and Vice President for Information Technology, and Dean of the Graduate School all serve as ex officio members on the committee.
This series includes two folders of reports submitted to the University Research Committee between 1975 and 1981. The reports are in alphabetical order by last name of the grant recipient. This series is in good condition.
The Military Order of the World Wars, also known as MOWW, was established in 1919 by General John J. Pershing as a fraternity for veteran officers of the First World War. Since its inception, the MOWW has grown to include American officers of many different conflicts, including World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. The organization has a preamble and a motto, "It is nobler to serve than to be served." The MOWW fosters national security, military service, and patriotism through partnerships with the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC), Girl Scouts of the United States of America, Boy Scouts of America, and other organizations. Efforts to establish the Central Texas Chapter of the MOWW began in 1986 in Austin, Texas, by Colonel Lawson W. Magruder. Their members included representatives from Bell, Bosque, Falls, Hill, Lampasas, Limestone, McLennan, and Milam counties. Perhaps the most famous action of the Central Texas Chapter of the MOWW was their compilation of the names of servicemen from these counties who gave their lives in World Wars I and II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War. They printed and bound several copies of the Military Memorial Roll Call for the Citizens of Central Texas, 1917-1975, donating copies to libraries around central Texas, including Baylor University.
The series contains correspondence, applications, and some preliminary press. The series is in poor condition.
The series contains lists, research, roll calls, and purchase requests relating to the roll call project that the club was trying to publish. The series is in poor condition.
The series contains letters, photographs, and newspaper clippings. The series is in average condition.
George Green immigrated to Big Rapids, Michigan, from England in 1914. He stayed with his uncle Frederick Hurdle and his wife, Ida. Green enlisted in the military on 1916 February 14, when he was sent to the Texas-Mexico border as a result of the Pancho Villa raids with the 32nd Division.
Following that conflict, the 32nd was activated for service in World War I, and Green was sent to Camp MacArthur, Texas, to train. While in training, the 32nd unit was converted to the 126th United States Infantry Regiment. Green was deployed to France in 1918. On 1918 August 7, Green was poisoned with mustard gas, resulting in a case of otitis media, an ear infection that causes a putrid discharge and deafness. On 1918 August 10 he was promoted to the rank of corporal. He was finally discharged from the hospital on November 1st, and then was assigned to the 292nd Military Police Company where he served until June 10, 1919. He was promoted twice more during his service, to sergeant on June 1, 1919, and 1st Sergeant on 1919 July 28. Green then served with the Guard Company 135 Infantry until 1919 October 20, when he returned to the United States. He was officially discharged from military service on 1919 November 9.
The series contains a diary, a transcription of the diary, and photographs. The series is in poor condition.
The L.L. Sams and Sons Company was founded in 1898 by L.L Sams. He was the first Texas sales representative for the E.H. Stafford company located in Michigan. Sams and Sons Company was strictly a sales agency until 1946 when they began manufacturing their own products. As clientele, needs, and trends evolved, the L.L. Sams and Sons Company began to branch out as well. They began by creating a separate manufacturing division, followed by church renovations, stained glass production, and several other endeavors through the years. The L.L. Sams Stained Glass Studio began in 1965 with three artists: Robert Mansfield, Ron Estep, and Annabelle Estep. Ron Estep created one of the studio's largest pieces, a 1,000 square foot panel depicting the life of Jesus Christ through symbols. The window was commissioned by Grove Avenue Baptist Church in Richmond, Virginia, and took over one year to complete. The studio created high quality pieces utilizing the dalle de verre technique, a mixture of sand and epoxy to fit the glass together instead of the traditional lead. While the studio began only servicing religious institutions, as requests slowed, they took on projects from schools, restaurants, military installations, and other entities. When the larger L. L. Sams and Sons Company merged with the Royal Seating Company the Stained Glass Studio dissolved and sold their remaining glass inventory to Bryant Stanton of Stanton Glass studio, located in Waco, Texas.
The Project Files series is dated 1952-1992, and includes preliminary sketches, detail and process drawings, correspondence, contracts, purchase orders (with additional notes), and estimates. Also included are installation photographs in the form of slides, polaroid and 35mm prints. Occasional fabric samples are present as well. The series retained original order, alphabetical by site location, and is in good condition.
The Renderings series is mostly undated; however, pieces can be cross-referenced with Project Files to obtain further information accordingly. Scale drawings of glass projects are present, some with notes documenting corrections and improvements to adjust before preparation. Items are listed alphabetically by site location, but physically they are arranged by size. This series is in good condition.
The Slides series includes pieces from 1976-1983. They show the manufacturing and installation processes of the windows as well as finished products. The series is arranged chronologically and is in excellent condition.
Baylor University's International Programs Office was the department dedicated to administering the international activities of the university. Abroad, this meant establishing partnerships with foreign universities and educators in places as diverse as Europe, the Middle East, East Asia, and Southeast Asia. These organizations include Yonok College in Thailand, a partnership that began in 1981. Domestically, the office assisted foreign exchange students at Baylor. This included providing academic guidance and scheduling social events, such as talent shows and food festivals.
This series contains correspondence, meeting minutes, financial records, event plans, and contracts between organizations. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains the pages of photo albums and photo slides of international student activities. The series in excellent condition.
The American Institute of Architects (AIA) Waco Chapter is a local chapter of the Texas Society of Architects affiliated with national AIA. Until the 1960's, Waco area architects were affiliated with larger chapters including Austin, Brazos, Dallas, and Fort Worth. In 1962, the Waco Chapter began meeting and worked with the state of Texas to become independent. This involved the release of several counties from their respective chapters to accomplish. Early counties included Bell, Falls, Limestone, and McLennan. On April 22, 1965, Waco was officially chartered as a chapter of the American Institute of Architects. The organization provided local professionals educational opportunities and regular programs. The chapter was also able to send delegates to the state business meeting. In 1984, the chapter established a scholarship, AIA Waco Chapter Memorial Scholarship, for students from the chapter area pursuing architectural degrees. Although the chapter is no longer active, the scholarship is administered by the chapter successor, the AIA Waco Section. A section differs from a chapter in that it does not have a voting presence at the state level.
The Administrative series is dated 1962-1970 and includes meeting minutes and membership information at the local and national levels. The series is organized in chronological order and in good condition.
The Correspondence series, dated 1962-1971, includes notes about membership, general chapter business, and presentations. The series is organized chronologically and is in good condition.
The Financial series is dated 1963-1970 and includes bank statements and cancelled checks. It is organized chronologically and in good condition.
Alexander Gordon Walsh was born to John and Jane Walsh of the United Kingdom in Mumbai, India, on 1897 November 30. During his time in the Texas National Guard, Walsh went on active duty on the Mexican border as part of a campaign to limit Pancho Villa's raids into United States territory. He was a part of Company K, 1st Battalion, 2nd Texas Regular Infantry. Upon the outbreak of World War I, the 2nd Texas Infantry combined with a regiment from Oklahoma and some from New Mexico to form the 36th Infantry Division. As a part of the 36th, Walsh fought in France, staying there through May of 1919, when he was sent back to the United States. Walsh died on 1989 February 5 at the age of 91. He is buried in Waco Memorial Park in Waco, Texas.
The series contains a memoir from Robert W. Sawyer. The series is in excellent condition.
The series contains copies of photographs. The series is in excellent condition.
William H. Pierce enlisted in the 8th Texas Cavalry Battalion (Taylor's Battalion, Mounted Rifles) early in the American Civil War. In May 1863, the 8th Texas Cavalry Battalion consolidated with other units to form the 1st Texas Cavalry. Primarily defending the Texas border, it mustered out in 1864. The fate of William H. Pierce is unknown.
This series includes one original letter and one transcript. The series is in average condition.
The Museum Association of Waco was founded in 1992 to assist member museums in education, marketing, and scholarships and grants. Early efforts to promote Waco-area museums included joint ticketing (one ticket to access multiple local museums), lectures, and workshops. By 2020, the organization had grown to 21 member institutions across the Central Texas area.
This series contains correspondence to and from the presidents of the organization, and occasionally the membership chair. This series is in excellent condition.
This series includes minutes from the association. This series is in excellent condition.
This series includes membership materials, including membership lists and demographic studies of visitors to member institutions. This series is in excellent condition.
This series includes events that the Museum Association of Waco hosted or promoted, including joint ticketing data, workshops, and Celebrate Waco. The joint ticketing data appears to have been from a program that allowed visitors to purchase one ticket on specified days that would allow entry to multiple member museums across Waco. This series is in excellent condition.
This series includes financial and legal materials, including financial tracking sheets, copies of the constitution and bylaws through time, and grant paperwork. This series is in excellent condition.
Edmond Hardy Jones II (1838?-1864) and Susan Jane Willis Jones (1832-1895), together with their child George Jones (born 1859) were living in Talbot County, Georgia, at the beginning of the America Civil War. The couple would have three more children, born during the war: Minnie S. Jones (1861-1921), William Isaiah Jones (born 1863), and Edmond Hardy Jones IV (1864-1940). In 1863, Edmond Jones enlisted in Company F, 64th Georgia Infantry. As part of the 64th Georgia, he took part in the Battle of Olustee, Florida, before his unit was transferred to Robert E. Lee's army in Virginia. There, they participated in the siege warfare around Petersburg. On 1864 August 16, Edmond Jones died as the 64th Georgia was attacked by an advancing Federal unit at the Second Battle of Deep Bottom, Virginia, part of Grant's efforts to take Richmond. The attack was so fierce that the commander of the 64th Georgia was captured during the battle. After the war, the Jones family moved to Texas. Susan Jane Willis Jones passed away in Comanche County, Texas, on 1895 February 7.
This series contains letters written to or from Edmond Hardy Jones II and Susan Jane Willis Jones. This series is in average condition.
This series contains various research materials and notes on the Jones family and the 64th Georgia Infantry regiment. The series is in excellent condition.
John Merriman McGhee (1838-1902) was born in Lawrence County, Alabama. At some point, he married Margaret Malvinas Wear McGhee; it is unknown if they had any children. At the start of the American Civil War, he enlisted in Company F, 16th Alabama Infantry, as a first lieutenant. As a member of the 16th Alabama Infantry during the entire war, he would have participated in the battles of Shiloh, Chickamauga, and Franklin, among others, as part of the Confederate Army of Tennessee. Sometime after the war, he moved to Brownwood, Texas. McGhee passed away on 1902 March 24 and was buried in Oakwood Cemetery, Waco, Texas.
This series contains four handwritten and typed transcripts of letters written by John Merriman McGhee. The series is in excellent condition.
Abner Vernon McCall was born on 1915 June 9 in Perrin, Texas, to parents Gertrude Elizabeth Rhoades McCall and Harry Vernon McCall. At the age of 3, McCall’s father passed away from the flu. After his death, his mother was unable to care for McCall and his siblings, and they were placed in the Masonic School and Home in Fort Worth, Texas. Although not much is known about Abner’s early life at this school, it is well known that Abner flourished academically. Graduating as the Valedictorian of his class, Abner earned the prestigious Masonic Scholarship, providing him the funding to attend Baylor University. Continuing his successes at Baylor, McCall graduated as valedictorian of the Baylor Law Class of 1938. Entering law practice, McCall remained near Baylor to teach law classes, serving as an assistant professor from 1938 to 1942. He left Baylor for one year to earn a Masters of Law at the University of Michigan. After receiving his degree, he worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for three years before returning to Baylor. Two years after his return, he was appointed Dean of the Law School. During his time teaching, he also was appointed a Texas Supreme Court Justice in 1956 June by then Governor Allan Shivers. By 1959, McCall was appointed Executive Vice President of Baylor University. In 1961, McCall was appointed President of Baylor University, a position he held for 21 years. During his tenure at Baylor, he was instrumental in expanding Baylor’s campus, raising the enrollment numbers, and improving the financial conditions of the university. While McCall was president, he continued to teach law courses. In 1981, McCall became the Chancellor of Baylor. He served in this capacity until 1985, then served as President Emeritus. McCall was known for his traditional Baptist views on social issues pertaining to campus life, including dancing, alcohol, and card playing. He served in many religious organizations in a variety of capacities, including President of the Baptist General Convention of Texas in 1964-1965 and Vice President of the Southern Baptist Convention in 1979-1980. Growing up surrounded by Masons, McCall was also involved in the Masonic Order and was coronated a 33rd degree Scottish Rite Mason in 1969. In 1991, McCall was honored with the Grand Cross, the highest honor granted to a Free Mason. McCall passed away at the age of 90 on 1995 June 11 and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, and other materials relating to the inner-workings of Baylor. Materials produced specifically for Baylor or by Baylor departments, organizations, and individuals can be found in this series. Some files are restricted due to the existence of personally identifiable information, or based on the current restriction policy governing university archives. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, publications, programs, and other materials relating to institutions and organizations outside of Baylor University. Some materials are related to McCall as an individual and his interests and affiliations, while others are directly related to his position as Chancellor. This series is in good condition.
This series includes correspondence and their supporting documents. The series is organized alphabetically by last name. Some materials are dated to McCall's time as President of Baylor, but were housed with other materials from his time as President Emeritus and kept in that original order during processing. This series is in good condition.
This series includes McCall's appointment books, honorary degrees and awards, personal correspondence, and speeches. Some materials are dated to McCall's time as President of Baylor, but were housed with other materials from his time as President Emeritus and kept in that original order during processing. McCall's 1985 appointment book from his first seven months as President Emeritus is in BU Records: Chancellor's Office (Abner Vernon McCall). This series is in good condition.
Abner Vernon McCall was born on 1915 June 9 in Perrin, Texas, to parents Gertrude Elizabeth Rhoades McCall and Harry Vernon McCall. At the age of 3, McCall’s father passed away from the flu. After his death, his mother was unable to care for McCall and his siblings, and they were placed in the Masonic School and Home in Fort Worth, Texas. Although not much is known about Abner’s early life at this school, it is well known that Abner flourished academically. Graduating as the Valedictorian of his class, Abner earned the prestigious Masonic Scholarship, providing him the funding to attend Baylor University. Continuing his successes at Baylor, McCall graduated as valedictorian of the Baylor Law Class of 1938. Entering law practice, McCall remained near Baylor to teach law classes, serving as an assistant professor from 1938 to 1942. He left Baylor for one year to earn a Masters of Law at the University of Michigan. After receiving his degree, he worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for three years before returning to Baylor. Two years after his return, he was appointed Dean of the Law School. During his time teaching, he was also appointed a Texas Supreme Court Justice in 1956 June by then Governor Allan Shivers. By 1959, McCall was appointed Executive Vice President of Baylor University. In 1961, McCall was appointed President of Baylor University, a position he held for 21 years. During his tenure at Baylor, he was instrumental in expanding Baylor’s campus, raising the enrollment numbers, and improving the financial conditions of the university. While McCall was president, he continued to teach law courses. In 1981, McCall became the Chancellor of Baylor. He served in this capacity until 1985, then served as President Emeritus. McCall was known for his traditional Baptist views on social issues pertaining to campus life, including dancing, alcohol, and card playing. He served in many religious organizations in a variety of capacities, including President of the Baptist General Convention of Texas in 1964-1965 and Vice President of the Southern Baptist Convention in 1979-1980. Growing up surrounded by Masons, McCall was also involved in the Masonic Order and was coronated a 33rd degree Scottish Rite Mason in 1969. In 1991, McCall was honored with the Grand Cross, the highest honor granted to a Free Mason. McCall passed away at the age of 90 on 1995 June 11 and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, and other materials relating to the inner-workings of Baylor. Materials produced specifically for Baylor or by Baylor departments, organizations, and individuals can be found in this series. Some files are restricted due to the existence of personally identifiable information, or based on the current restriction policy governing university archives. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence, reports, minutes, publications, programs, and other materials relating to institutions and organizations outside of Baylor University. Some materials are related to McCall as an individual and his interests and affiliations, while others are directly related to his position as Chancellor. This series is in average condition.
This series includes correspondence and their supporting documents. The series is organized alphabetically by last name. The last name used to organize the files, in some cases, is the name of an individual discussed in the correspondence rather than the correspondent. Any individual with a folder specifically labeled with their name was a folder that was retained from the original order. All other materials were found in miscellaneous folders and put into alphabetical order by last name according to the name written at the top of each piece of paper. This series is in average condition.
This series includes McCall's appointment books and speeches from his time as Chancellor. McCall's 1981 appointment book is in BU Records: Office of the President (Abner Vernon McCall). This series is in average condition.
Thomas W. Gaines (1827-1894) from Quincey, Illinois, was a Lieutenant Colonel in the Union army's 50th Illinois Infantry during the American Civil War. Prior to the war, he married Eliza Ann Gaines (1840-1900). The couple had one son together, Thomas Wade Gaines (1861-1913). At some point after the war, the family moved to Clarksville, Texas, where Thomas W. Gaines passed away in 1894.
This series contains letters to and from Thomas W. Gaines, including correspondence he had with other veterans from the Civil War. This series is in average condition.
This series contains bills and receipts from Gaines' life, primarily his time in Texas. This series is in average condition.
This series contains lists of equipment Gaines issued as captain of Company D, 50th Illinois Infantry, before his promotion to major and then lieutenant colonel. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains personal and collected materials from Thomas W. Gaines. The books listed are missing publication information, so the titles, date published, and author are unknown. This series is in average condition.
Alexander Hunter Chamberlin (1818-1888) was born in South Carolina. At some point, he married Temperance Killinsworth Aldridge Chamberlin (1827-1862) and went first to Mississippi, then to Falls County, Texas. During the California Gold Rush in the 1850s, Alexander Chamberlin left Texas to work in California. He had returned by 1860, and was farming in Alto Springs in Falls County. At that time, Alexander and Temperance Chamberlin had six children. In 1862, Temperance Chamberlin passed away at the age of 34. By 1880, Alexander Hunter Chamberlin was living with one of his daughters and her family in Falls County. He passed away in 1888.
This series contains letters written by Alexander Hunter Chamberlin about his work in the gold fields of California. Transcripts are included. The series is in poor condition.
James Frances Walker Jr. (1793-1873) resident of Kentucky, married Abler Collett Walker (died 1831) in 1816. They had four children while in Kentucky, with a fifth born in Texas. The Walker family arrived in Texas in 1824 as part of Stephen F. Austin's Old Three Hundred colony, and James served in the Texian army in the Texas Revolution. Originally settling in Washington County, the family moved to Waco in the early 1850s. The only male child of James and Abler Walker, William Collett Walker (1818-1896), married Rebecca Briscoe Cobbs Walker (1836-1916), daughter of the local county judge, in 1854. William and Rebecca had five children: Ella A. Walker Patterson (1855-1943), Charlotte Virginia Walker (1860-1886), William Collett Walker (1864-1941), Hallie Rebecca Walker Wheeler (1872-1918), and Thomas Cobbs Walker (1877-1902). Several of the children attended Waco Classical School, Academy of the Sacred Heart, and Baylor University. All of the children stayed in the McLennan County area, and most family members who passed away in Waco area are buried in the Cobbs-Walker Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series contains letters written by various members of the Walker family. The series is in average condition.
This series contains a land title for multiple blocks in the University Heights area of Waco, Texas. The series is in poor condition.
This series contains bills and receipts and a bill of sale for enslaved people. This series is in average condition.
This series contains portrait photographs and a few group photographs of the Walker family in and around Waco, Texas. Of particular note is a photograph of the Academy of the Sacred Heart, a Catholic school in Waco, Texas. This series is in good condition.
Lucretius Harrison Graves (1840-1901) was born in Missouri. He moved to McKinney, Texas, at some point prior to the American Civil War. Graves enlisted in 1861 as a first lieutenant into Company K, 6th Texas Cavalry. Company K had previously existed as Throckmorton's Company of Mounted Rifleman, a Texas Militia company operating in North Texas. This explains why Graves was a member of Company K before the company formally became part of the 6th Texas later in 1861. As a member of the 6th Texas, part of Ross' Texas Brigade for much of the war, Graves served in Indian Territory (modern day Oklahoma), Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, and other locations, participating in over eighty-five skirmishes and battles over the course of the war. Major battles and campaigns included the Battles of Pea Ridge and Corinth and the Atlanta Campaign. He was wounded and taken prisoner at the Battle of Corinth in 1862 but recovered and was exchanged in 1863. Graves surrendered with what was left of the 6th Texas Cavalry in Jackson, Mississippi, at the close of the war. He made his way back to Collin County, Texas, and continued farming 123 acres until his death in 1901.
This series contains the diary of Lucretius Harrison Graves, a soldier in the 6th Texas Cavalry. This series is in excellent condition.
James Bradford Pier (1813-1888) and Lucy Merry Pier (1814-1897), first members of the Pier family to arrive in Texas, settled in Austin County in 1835. James Pier served in the Texian army in the Texas Revolution, afterwards returning to the Pier homestead in Austin County. James and Lucy Pier had five children: Lucy Eliza Pier Cochran (1837-1880), Sarah Charlotte Pier Wiley (1840-1920), William Henry Pier (1843), Samuel Bradford Pier (1844-1914), and Julia Louise Pier (1847). Both James and his son Samuel Bradford Pier joined the Confederate army during the Civil War.
While James was stationed on the home front to watch prisoners at Hempstead, Texas, Samuel went to the battlefront, first as a private in Company G, 9th Texas Infantry, and later as a corporal in the 13th Texas Cavalry Battalion. Both men survived the war, with James passing away in 1888 and Samuel in 1914. They are both buried, along with other members of the Pier family, in several cemeteries in Austin County, Texas.
This series contains correspondence, financial bills and receipts, clippings, genealogy documents from the Family Bible, and photographs. The photographs are labeled with names and often with dates. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains programs, an essay about the Pier family, and various genealogy worksheets. This series is in excellent condition.
Lois "June" Starkey Gilbreath (1937-2020), was born in Quay County, New Mexico. Though her given name was Lois, she commonly went by the name June. She attended Eastern New Mexico University and Washburn University before graduating from Baylor University. She married Jim Gilbreath and the couple had two children together: Brad and Rob Gilbreath. Her husband Jim Gilbreath passed away in 1980, at which time she became a development officer for Baylor University. After retirement, she moved to Colorado for four years. June Gilbreath passed away on February 23, 2020.
This series contains a letter and several unlabeled group photographs. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains a program from the dedication of the McLane Carillon and photographs of installation and transportation of the bells. This series is in excellent condition.
Wilson County, Texas, consists of 807 square miles of South Central Texas, which is home to a population of nearly 50,000. Major cities include Floresville, the county seat, La Vernia, Sutherland Springs, Stockdale, Poth, and Saspamco. Wilson County was legally chartered on February 13, 1860, out of portions of Bexar and Karnes counties. The county celebrated their hundredth anniversary by hosting a festival consisting of parades, carnivals, games, music, and fireworks. The festival took place in Floresville, Texas, from September 19-25, 1960.
The series contains a poster, three buttons, a tie, and a banner celebrating Wilson County's Centennial.
Albert Johnson (A. J.) Jennings was born 1861 August 21 in Louisiana and moved to Falls County, Texas, with his family shortly after. Jennings worked several jobs throughout his life including in the railroad, farming, and teaching fields. He was also community and civic minded, holding positions in Falls County such as justice of the peace and tax assessor collector. He established the A. J. Jennings Company in the late 1920s. The A. J. Jennings Company operated for more than forty years with locations in Kosse, Thornton, Bremond, Franklin, Caldwell, and Groesbeck, Texas. The stores were primarily hardware stores offering goods to the surrounding areas. During the 1940s, the Groesbeck location provided regular service and maintenance to the Limestone County Courthouse in addition to its regular operations. In later years, the store began carrying variety goods such as toys, personal care items, home goods, and office supplies. Upon the death of A. J. Jennings in 1945, the business was split amongst his heirs and continued operation. Vinnie Holland Jennings, A.J.'s daughter-in-law, operated the Groesbeck location until her death in 1975. The building that housed the store on Navasota street in downtown Groesbeck is currently occupied by the Limestone County Historical Museum.
The Invoices series is dated 1947-1974 and includes receipts, purchase orders, and other financial records collected in the business process. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Inventory series is dated 1944-1974 and includes registers of general stock as well as hardware and variety goods. The series is in chronological order and good condition.
The Ledgers series, dated 1936-1975, includes bound material such as invoices, inventories, payroll, cash books, and general business papers. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The Legal series is dated 1942-1972. Content includes contracts and information issued by the government on ammunition sales and consumer credit and pricing. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The General series, dated 1942-1951, includes general business information such as benefits, correspondence, and newsletters. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Woman's Club of Waco, an educational and philanthropic club for the women of Waco, was founded on 1892 January 5. While the club began with only eight members, it grew rapidly, and soon included many of the leading women of the city. The club flower was the rose, and the club colors were red and white. In 1898, the Woman's Club of Waco participated in a meeting that formed a city federation of women's clubs. While the Woman's Club of Waco joined with other city clubs to accomplish common goals, the club has always retained a high degree of autonomy in their activities.
Prominent among the club has been the ideas of self-improvement through education, as shown through their memorable motto: "If I rest, I rust." For much of its history, club members gave presentations on varied topics during monthly meetings. During World War I and II, many of the presentations had to do with the war. During other time periods, presentations included topics of international interest, self-improvement, science, history, finances, among others. Voting rights for women was a topic of intense early interest, with the club signing a petition, along with other clubs, to be forwarded to Washington D.C. in support of voting rights for women. The club has been involved with efforts to improve the lives of Waco citizens since its founding. During the World Wars, club members visited soldiers at Camp MacArthur weekly, bringing books and food.
They led a book drive to furnish the on-base library with books for soldiers, worked closely with the Red Cross to make bandages, and organized a benefit concert for soldiers in Carroll Library Chapel on the campus of Baylor University. Today, the Woman's Club of Waco continues to provide philanthropic and educational opportunities to the women of the city of Waco.
This series contains the minutes of the Woman's Club of Waco. These minutes document close to one hundred years of philanthropic and educational work in Waco. This series is in good condition.
This series contains yearbooks and a scrapbook of the Woman's Club of Waco. The scrapbook contains one photograph and a few newspaper clippings, but most of the scrapbook materials are copies of the yearbooks. It is recommended that, due to preservation concerns, researchers view the yearbooks folders rather than the yearbooks in the scrapbook. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains the constitution, a program, and a folder of print jobs that the Woman's Club of Waco had printed. This series is in average condition.
The Sons of the Southern Confederacy were one of many Civil War veterans-affiliated groups active in the late 1800s and early 1900s. This particular branch, the Joseph H. Jenkins chapter, was active in Houston, Texas. While it is unknown when the Sons of the Southern Confederacy group disbanded, many similar groups eventually joined or merged with the Sons of Confederate Veterans organization throughout the mid-1900s.
This series contains a program for a memorial service for Confederate veterans, hosted by the Sons and Daughters of the Confederacy, in 1902. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains a card with memorial poetry, together with an envelope, and a photograph of a member of the Sons of the Southern Confederacy Joseph H. Jenkins Chapter in Houston, Texas. The series is in good condition.
First Street Cemetery Memorial Advisory Committee was appointed by the Waco City Council in 2013 to recommend the best way to rebury human remains thought to have been previously removed. First Street Cemetery, a historical cemetery in Waco, Texas, was supposedly partially relocated in the 1960s to make room for the Texas Ranger Museum. When construction began in 2007 on an expansion to the museum, it was found that only the headstones had been removed, not the human remains. The First Street Cemetery Memorial Advisory Committee then advised on where to rebury the remains, what form a memorial should take, and other decisions to do with the reburial. Fourteen community members served on the committee: John Wilson (chair), Robbie Brooks, Ed Brown, Norma Cannata, August Jean DeBose, Susan Duncan, Leonard Englander, Robert Gamboa, John Hubble, Gail King, Andrew McDowell, Karl McNair, and Willie Stanley. The committee disbanded upon the completion of their work, with the remains reburied in Rosemound Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series contains correspondence, drafts of reports, and other materials related to the First Street Cemetery Memorial Advisory Committee's work on First Street Cemetery in Waco, Texas. The series is in excellent condition.
Alice Owens Caufield (1907-1999) was born on 1907 November 5 at a farm near the present day traffic circle in Waco, Texas. At the age of five, her mother died, and she learned to handle all operations of a farm with her father, sister, and grandparents. When her grandparents died, she became the primary person carrying out all household farm chores. In 1929, she married James Caufield (1896-1970); Alice and James each had a son from a previous marriage at the time of their marriage to each other. She graduated from A.J. Moore High School in 1927, then attended college at Paul Quinn College, Texas Southern University, and Baylor University, obtaining degrees in history and sociology, and training in education. Beginning her career as a teacher's aide, she also served as a nurse's aide, secretary, legal aid, outreach/social worker, and eventually program director of the organization at that time known as the Young Women's Christian Association, or YWCA. Specifically, she worked for many years with the Blue Triangle YWCA in Waco, a branch of a Houston organization that sought to host safe meeting and educational spaces and events for women and girls of color. Her longtime affiliation with the group began the year after they were founded, as she joined in 1938. Alice Owens Caufield passed away on 1999 March 14 and is buried in Robinson Cemetery, McLennan County, Texas.
This series contains a variety of materials from the life of Alice Owens Caufield, including various civic organizations, churches, speeches she gave to groups, memorial service programs, and information on local and national African American history. This series is in excellent condition.
Joseph Sheppard Barnett, Jr., was born 1892 September 8 in Texas. In 1917, Barnett joined the army, training at Camp Travis, and eventually fought on the front lines in 1918, remaining in Germany with his regiment until at least March of 1919. After World War I, he remained in the army, reaching the rank of captain by 1931, when he served as the Assistant Plans and Training Officer and the Regimental Gas Officer for the 143rd Infantry at Camp Hulen near Palacios, Texas. During World War II, as a lieutenant colonel, he commanded the 3rd Battalion of the 143rd Combat Team, receiving the Army Commendation Medal for gallantry in battle on 1943 September 13 in Italy. While commanding the 36th Infantry at Salerno, Italy, Barnett was wounded in the leg by a shell fragment. Barnett returned home to recover at McCloskey General Hospital in Temple, Texas. After his recovery, Barnett oversaw training, first at Camp Fannin, Texas and then at Camp Howze, Texas. He died on 1972 June 9.
The series includes outgoing correspondence (related to World War I) and incoming correspondence (related to World War II). The series is in good condition.
This series contains clippings from local newspapers about World War II mentioning or interviewing Barnett. The series is in average condition.
This series contains military records, memos, forms, and other materials connected to Barnett’s military career. The series is in average condition.
This series consists of photographs of Barnett. The series is in good condition.
This series contains military publications, including regulation booklets, training materials, and pocket guides, as well as a 1931 camp annual from Camp Hulen, Texas, and posters depicting the campaigns of the 36th Infantry Division in World War II. The series is in average condition.
Jefferson-Moore High School opened in the Fall of 1971 in Waco, Texas, to replace the former A. J. Moore Junior and Senior High Schools. The establishment of Jefferson-Moore was implemented as the city of Waco desegregated schools and continued with urban renewal. The Jefferson-Moore High School Parent Teacher Association was established first as the A. J. Moore Jr. and Sr. High School PTA prior to 1968 and then transitioned to the newly established Jefferson-Moore High School in 1971. The organization operated as such until Jefferson-Moore consolidated with Waco High School and Richfield High School in 1986.
The Administrative series, dated 1968-1986, includes a register of minutes, executive committee notebooks, organizational by-laws, financial reports, and limited photographs. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The Publications series, dated 1980-1986, includes newsletters and student directories. The series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
Alvah Allen Torrance was born 1903 August 21 near Wallis, Texas to Robert Blake Torrance and Daisy Allen Torrance. He served in the United States Army during World War II, was an accomplished amateur photographer, and a Mason (Shriner). Torrance worked for the Amicable Life Insurance Company located in Waco, Texas. He held positions as cashier, assistant secretary, and was named Vice President in 1958. As Vice President, he saw the company through its merger with American Life insurance Company based in Alabama. Torrance served on the board of several organizations including Amicable Life, the McLennan County Children’s Foundation, and the North Waco Water Supply District. Alvah Torrance died August 22, 1990, in Waco, Texas, and is buried in Waco Memorial Park.
The Business series, dated 1944-1967, is made up of documents related to the Amicable Life Insurance Company and documents the merger with American Life Insurance Company. Items such as by-laws, company publications, memos, stockholder reports, and travel documents are present. The series is in chronological order, and in good condition.
The Personal series, dated 1938-1972, includes photographs, correspondence, programs, publications, and legal documents. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Slides series is listed as undated, but most likely covers the period 1953 to around 1970. The series is organized with Waco related items first, followed by scenic views. The series is in excellent condition.
Sandra Trenwith Hancock Martin was born to Hugh Trenwith Hancock and Rose Alice Todd on 1940 August 7 in Washington, D.C. She attended the Second Baptist Church in Houston, Texas, and graduated from Lamar High School. In 1958, Sandra began her freshman year at Baylor University as a theater arts major with a concentration in drama. Following a year and half of education at Baylor, Sandra transferred to her father’s alma mater, William and Mary College in Virginia, where she received her B.A. in Spanish in 1962. Following her college graduation, Sandra went on to receive her M.A.T.
in Spanish from the University of Florida. Sandra moved to New Jersey and became a teacher of A.P. Spanish at the high school level. After thirty years as a high school educator, Sandra retired. She took up a position as Adjunct Professor of Spanish and First Year Seminar in the School of Humanities and Global Studies at the Ramapo College of New Jersey. Sandra Trenwith Hancock Martin married John David Martin, a physicist originally from Alexandria, Virginia, after their meeting at William and Mary College. The couple had two children, Andrew Thomas Martin and Todd David Martin.
The series contains letters from Ms. Martin's time at Baylor. The series is in average condition.
The series contains a manuscript and a flash drive that holds a digital copy of the manuscript. The series is in good condition.
The Texas Civil War Centennial Commission, part of a national effort in the 1960s to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the American Civil War, began forming in the late 1950s. The commission went on to coordinate local and national events throughout 1961-1965 commemorating the war. In Texas, the commission also coordinated recognizing Texas soldiers in Civil War battles outside of Texas, such as Vicksburg. The commission's work of erecting monuments honoring Texas Civil War soldiers at battlefields outside of Texas continues today through the Texas Historical Commission.
This series includes correspondence, agendas, and reports about the initial planning of the Texas Civil War Centennial Commission. This series is in good condition.
J.H.H. Woodward, resident of Houston, Texas, was a land agent at thirty years old in 1860.
This series contains a photocopy of a letter written to the military veterans' pension office in Washington D.C. about the Harris County Club for United Southern Action, and their efforts to hear from other Southern states before seceding. This series is in good condition.
Pauline Breustedt was born 1898 July 3 in Waco, Texas, to William and Jean Breustedt. Pauline’s early education was in Waco schools followed by Miss Wright’s School in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, and Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, from which she graduated cum laude. Pauline also attended finishing school in France. As a member of Waco’s social elite during the 1920s, Breustedt was mentioned in the society pages as she regularly visited friends and family in New York and New Orleans. In 1923 she was crowned Waco Cotton Palace Queen. During this time, she also traveled throughout the United States and to such places as Europe, Cuba, and South America. Throughout her schooling, Pauline was a regular on the stage, performing in shows at Miss Wright’s and Smith College. She obtained her first professional acting credit as an understudy on Broadway and in 1925 joined the Stuart Walker Company in Cincinnati, Ohio. She spent three seasons with the company and performed regularly in Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio. In 1936, Breustedt became a founding member of the Service League of Waco, now known as the Junior League of Waco, Inc. In that same year, Pauline began a five-month world tour and visited destinations in Europe, Asia, and Central America. While Pauline Breustedt spent much time away for school, work, and leisure travel, she always claimed Waco as home. In 1977 she participated in an oral history project with the Junior League of Waco and the Baylor Institute of Oral History on the Women of Waco. Pauline Breustedt died April 2, 1978, and is buried at Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
The General series, dated 1921-1959, includes clippings, travel brochures, invitations, items documenting Breustedt’s personal interests, and limited correspondence. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Post Cards and Photographs series has several undated items, but also includes items dated 1948-1973. Contents include limited personal photographs and numerous post cards from various world-wide destinations. The series is arranged in alphabetical order and in excellent condition.
The Scrapbooks series is dated circa 1917-1969 and documents the personal interests of Pauline Breustedt. Scrapbooks include photographs, news clippings, programs, post cards, local and personal interests. Each book has been assigned a title based on its content. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
John D. Dace was a Confederate soldier in the American Civil War. As of 1863 July 4, he was with his military unit in Tennessee, and it is unknown which unit he was a member of or if he survived the war.
This series contains a single letter from John D. Dace. This series is in good condition.
Alexander Archer Beville (1841-1930) was born on 1841 July 11 in Virginia to Alexander and Catherine Walthall Beville. He enlisted in Company C, 51st Virginia Infantry, during the American Civil War. After the war, Beville married Margaret Jane Keister in 1867, with the couple moving to Waco in 1870. They had four children together: Alexander Jacob Beville (1868-1957), Caroline Madison Beville Montgomery (1874-1912), Nannie Patton Beville (1876-1877), and John Archer Beville (1882-1882). Beville is believed to be the first permanent dentist in Waco. After his son Alexander Jacob attended the University of Maryland, he returned to join his father in dental practice, officing together at 401 and 1/2, Austin Avenue. Alexander Archer Beville was heavily involved in the Texas Dental Association, helping to organize it and serving successively as secretary, vice-president, and finally president in 1894. He was also involved in the Waco community as a member of the Austin Avenue Methodist Church, local United Confederate Veterans Pat Cleburne Camp, and the Masons. Margaret Beville passed away in 1893, with Alexander Archer Beville passing away in 1930. They are buried in Oakwood Cemetery, Waco, Texas.
This series contains a certificate for Beville's appointment as second lieutenant in a Texas state militia unit. This series is in average condition.
This series contains receipts and check stubs from Waco area businesses and banks, to do with the personal transactions of Alexander Archer Beville. The series is in average condition.
The Waco Little Theatre was established in the 1920s and performed for a Waco audience from 1925 to 1936. The group went dormant until 1945 when Paul Baker, then Professor and Chair of the Baylor University Drama Department, worked with former members of the Little Theatre to create and charter the Waco Civic Theatre, Inc. The charter was granted by the State of Texas for 50 years, beginning in 1948. In 1948, the Waco Civic Theater (WCT) began performing at Baylor University’s Little Theater and did so until budget cuts and increased productions at Baylor disallowed the use of facilities in 1951. WCT began performing in other places around Waco including Casa Blanca, the Shrine Ballroom, the National Guard Armory, and YWCA until a permanent home was established in 1958. Paul Baker worked with renowned theatre designer, James Hull Miller, to create the building on Lake Air Drive in Waco. In 1963 the building was commended by the Journal of the Royal Institute of British Architects. Since then, the building has undergone several additions and renovations. Waco Civic Theatre currently produces six plays per year, including children’s productions.
Local partnerships also allow the WCT to coordinate children’s theatre workshops and outreach programs. The WCT is currently a non-profit organization and receives funding through ticket sales, and has received several grants and donations from sources such as the Cooper Foundation, Waco Foundation, and an endowment funded by Frank Baird, Jr. of Buffalo, New York, in honor of his mother Mrs. Flora Cameron Baird.
The Administrative series, dated 1950-2002, includes by-laws, minutes, correspondence, production materials, and information on the design and construction of the Civic Theatre building. The series is arranged alphabetically and in good condition.
The Publications series, dated 1931-2020, is composed primarily of clippings, newsletters, advertising materials, and theatre programs. The series is arranged alphabetically and is in good condition.
The Scrapbooks series, dated 1950-1992, documents performances and the theatre through photographs, programs, and clippings. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The Audiovisual series is dated 1958-1996 with a good amount of undated materials. The series is arranged alphabetically by media type, then chronologically within each medium. Media includes 16 mm film, audiocassettes, negatives, photographs, posters, reel to reels, and slides. The series is in good condition.
The Native American Student Association began in the early 1990s. The organization’s goal, according to their constitution, is “to develop the leadership potential that exists among the Baylor Native American student population and those interested in the Native American culture and to act as a support group spiritually, academically, and socially while contributing to the Baylor and Waco communities.” They accomplished this goal by hosting cultural events and inviting guest lecturers. The most significant of these events was the annual Pow Wow sponsored by the Native American Student Association. The first Pow Wow was hosted in 1994, with annual Pow Wows continuing through at least 2002. At its zenith, the annual Pow Wow attracted thousands of attendees, becoming the largest student-run event on Baylor’s campus and the largest university-sponsored Pow Wow in Texas. As of 2020, the Native American Student Association is no longer an active student organization at Baylor University.
This series contains correspondence, publicity, contracts, photographs, a grant proposal, financial documents, and membership records, The series is in good condition.
In the 1970s, Baylor created the Division of Continuing Education in order to offer night classes and degree programs for nontraditional students. In 1980, Dr. William Cooper was appointed Dean of Continuing Education. Under his leadership, Continuing Education focused on four areas: providing assistance to Baylor faculty in order to strengthen their teaching skills and research opportunities, providing training for Baylor staff to strengthen their professional skills, offering non-credit courses to address the needs of the Waco community, and coordinating summer session activities such as summer abroad programs. In 1987, Dr. Robert T. Miller became Dean of Continuing Education. After his retirement in 1990, Annette Lindsey was appointed Director of Continuing Education. During the 1990s, faculty development and staff development were separated from the Continuing Education program, prompting a transition to focusing exclusively on education for the Waco community. As part of this transition, Continuing Education began several programs for specialized audience, including the Advanced Placement Institute for Teachers, the Baylor Institute for Learning in Retirement, and the Certificate Program in Nonprofit Management. The Nonprofit Management program began with a satellite coursed offered in partnership with PBS and the Learning Institute in 1998 before transitioning to offering classes led by local experts in 1999. In 2005, the Continuing Education program closed. Baylor Learning in Retirement (renamed Lifelong Learning) moved to the Baylor Alumni association until 2013. In 2016, Baylor Continuing Education was revived and began offering classes again in the spring of 2017.
Series I, Administrative Files, includes correspondence, memos, annual reports, minutes, course materials, grant applications, financial documents, legal agreements, travel itineraries, publicity, publications, and other documents related to Continuing Education. The series is in good condition.
Series II, Nonprofit Education, contains materials related to the Certificate in Nonprofit Management program, including course materials, scholarship applications, correspondence, enrollment records, and financial documents. The series is in good condition.
Series III, Course Catalogues, contains the catalogs advertising Continuing Educations course offerings for each semester. The series is in good condition.
In 1972, the Baylor Chapter of the American Association of University Professors conducted a survey of recent Baylor retirees to gauge their interest in a Baylor retirement organization. Upon hearing back from respondents that such a program would be helpful, Baylor University Executive Vice President and Provost Herbert H. Reynolds, later President of Baylor University, authorized the creation of what was called at the time the Baylor Retired Professor's Center. With veteran professor and administrator P.D. Browne as the first director, the center began contacting past Baylor professors and administrators and keeping in touch with them through regular mailings of newsletters, campus newspapers, and other materials produced by the university. By 1977, the program was called the Retired Professors Program, and had 97 members, 77 of whom still lived in Waco close to the university campus. Browne, as director, conducted an annual retirement luncheon for new retirees, where retiring faculty and staff were presented with plaques or certificates at a formal lunch. P.D. Browne retired as director in 1982. Dr. Floyd Davidson was appointed as the new director in 1983 and led the department for the next six years. During that time, membership continued to grow. Dr. W.J. Wimpee, former professor of Religion, next led the department, 1990-1998. By 1998, when Dr. Rufus Spain began as director, membership was more than 600, and the department was coordinating a monthly newsletter, regular luncheons, flowers for shut-ins, hospital visits to members as necessary, and various other functions. William J. Dube III next became Director of the Retired Professors and Administrators Program, together with his duties as Senior Director of Stewardship in the University Development department at Baylor. It was probably at this time that the Retired Professors and Administrators Program became a division of the Development office at Baylor. The Retired Professors and Administrators Program continues to provide opportunities to serve, connect, and explore for the community of retired Baylor professors and administrators.
This series contains budgets, correspondence, luncheon planning documents, and other materials related with running the Retired Professors and Administrators Program. This series is in good condition.
This series contains newsletters generated over the time of several different directors. The newsletters provided updates on Baylor events and initiatives, upcoming events hosted by the Retired Professors and Administrators Program, and reminisces from past times at Baylor. Director P.D.
Browne wrote many of the articles about Baylor history and leaders from the 1930s-1960s. This series is in excellent condition.
This series contains biographical and obituary materials, including member files kept for reference by the office. This series is in good condition.
J.C. McGary was a soldier during the American Civil War. His military unit is unknown as is information about him surviving the war.
This series contains one transcribed letter from McGary's service in the American Civil War. This series is in excellent condition.
Normand Lois LaRoche was born 1916 September 6. In 1943, having enlisted in the United States Army, Corporal LaRoche was transferred to Camp Huntsville, Texas. By 1944 January, he was promoted to the rank of sergeant. Later that year, he transferred to Camp Milam, where he oversaw prisoner of war work details. In 1945, LaRoche served in the military police in Europe. He was first posted in Brussels, Belgium, during the final months of World War II. After the war, he remained in Europe, serving in post-war Berlin from 1945 October to 1946 February. During the final days of 1945, he went on furlough, traveling throughout Switzerland. He died on 1977 October 18.
Series I, Prisoner of War Camp Documents, contains memos, prisoner counts, transfer lists, and other documents related to overseeing work details at Camp Milam. The series is in poor condition.
Series II, Literary productions, contains books and booklets related to LaRoche’s time in the military.
Series III, Personal Materials, contains a wide variety of materials connected to LaRoche’s experiences in the military, including physical objects, notebooks, correspondence, photographs, postcards, currency, and other assorted items. Of particular note are three scrapbooks recording LaRoche’s time in Brussels, Switzerland, and Berlin.
The name(s) of the landowner(s) were not recorded.
This series contains ledger books with handwritten amounts that tenant farmers owed to landowners in Washington County, Texas. This series is in poor condition.
The First Families of Baylor Club was a student club at Baylor University during the 1940’s. Students could join the club if they had a relative, usually their grandfather, grandmother, father, or mother, who attended Baylor. The club seemed to be most active in the 1940s and 1950s. There seemed to be a definite transition in the types of events the club held. In the 1940s, the club was interested in locating and preserving historical materials, but by the 1950s, the club had transitioned to more traditional student activities, such as a roller-skating parties and other social events. There is no known connection between the club and the annual First Families of Baylor Award given by the university.
This series contains membership lists, minutes, and other administrative materials from the First Families of Baylor Club. This series is in average condition.
This series contains clippings, invitations, and other print materials to do with the First Families of Baylor Club. This series is in poor condition.
The Brookview Neighborhood Association was born from the City of Waco Neighborhood Development Program in 1992. The program was created “in an effort to create better communication and relationships between the City and the neighborhoods.” The BNA began planning meetings that year, and in 1993, was issued a Certificate of Incorporation from the State of Texas and received 501(c)(3) non-profit status in 1995. The BNA began assessing the neighborhood based upon city ordinances and created a Housing Stock and Code Compliance Survey which influenced projects in the beginning of the organization. The association holds clean up events, usually in conjunction with the Baylor University Steppin’ Out program, garage sales, and other activities throughout the year. As of 2021, the association is still in operation.
The Administrative Series, dated 1992-2005, includes minutes, by-laws, membership rosters, committee reports, neighborhood maps, and city budget information. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The Correspondence series, dated 1994-2001, includes thank you notes, press releases, correspondence from the mayor and city, Brookview Neighborhood Association goals, and flyers promoting community events. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Projects and Outreach series, dated 1993-2004, documents the early involvement of the organization in the Brookview Neighborhood. Photographs, newsletters, volunteer information, clippings, and other pamphlets are included along with a housing survey of the neighborhood. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Pan American Round Table movement was established by Florence Terry Griswold in 1916 at the Menger Hotel in San Antonio, Texas. The driving force behind the women’s organization was Griswold’s reaction to the Mexican Revolution and its impact on the people in Texas and Mexico, especially those fleeing Mexico. As the movement grew through Texas, into Mexico, and other countries in the western hemisphere, the Alliance of Pan American Round Tables was created in 1944 at the first International Convention which took place in Mexico City. All round tables operate under the understanding that the group was formed “to foster mutual understanding, knowledge, and friendship among the peoples of the Western Hemisphere.” The Pan American Round Table of Waco was founded in 1957 by Carolyn D. Cryer. State Director, Mrs. William P. (Viva) McComb, was present at the inaugural meeting and considered it one of the “largest beginning groups” in the state. The group received state and Alliance charters in 1958. The local women’s group met regularly and discussed the culture and politics of the twenty-two countries in North, Central, and South America as well as the Caribbean. In 1981, the Waco Table hosted the state convention. The early April meeting was held in part aboard the Brazos Queen, a popular floating restaurant which cruised down the Brazos River. Sometime between 1995 and 2019 the Waco Round Table became inactive.
The Scrapbooks series is dated 1957-1995. All books are untitled but include items such as invitations, clippings, newsletters, photographs, yearbooks, correspondence, conference programs, small trinkets, and holiday cards. The series is arranged in chronological order. Overall condition is good, but some books are in poor condition as glue used to paste items to pages has come loose or fragile pages have separated from the binding. Caution should be used handling these items.
In 1900, a motion by the Fifth Street Methodist Episcopal Church, South, was made to organize the Austin Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church as the former congregation had exceeded their accommodations. Reverend John R. Nelson became the first pastor of the church and oversaw building and construction of the new church in 1901. Sunday school began on December 29, 1901, followed by the first worship service. Charter membership was also established with 81 members recorded. Services were held in the building at 12th Street and Austin Avenue until 1925. The congregation outgrew the original building and moved a block over to a new building on 13th Street and Austin Avenue. In 1939, the Methodist Protestant Church and Methodist Episcopal Church, South, united forming the Methodist Church. Under this reorganization, Austin Avenue Methodist Episcopal Church, South became Austin Avenue Methodist Church. The church was active in military support efforts during the 1940s and helped establish the Latin American Methodist Church of Waco. On November 13, 1954, the building at 13th and Austin was destroyed by fire. A new structure was consecrated in 1956 and was dedicated in 1961. In 1968, the Methodist Church and the Evangelical United Brethren Church merged and became the United Methodist Church. The Austin Avenue Methodist Church then became the Austin Avenue United Methodist Church.
The Administrative series, dated 1900-1961, includes minutes, lists of charter members, dedication programs, annual reports, and a register of infant baptisms. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The Bible Classes series, dated 1936-1970, consists of minutes, financial documents, and correspondence created by the Ethel Jackson and Dudgeon study classes. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Yearbooks series, dated 1939-1959, includes directories compiled for bible study classes, women’s groups, and other classes that met at Austin Avenue Methodist Church. The series is arranged in alphabetical order by class title and is in good condition.
The Association of Collegiate Alumnae was founded in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1882 as a group to develop higher education for women and maintain high standards in institutions serving women. In 1921, the ACA merged with the Southern Association of College Women and formed the American Association of University Women. In 1923, AAUW worked with several institutions in Texas, including Baylor University, to recognize them as approved schools. The organization approved schools based on women’s rank and representation in the faculty, housing facilities, educational opportunities, membership among the Board of Trustees (Regents), and other criteria. In 1926, Waco, along with Amarillo, Austin, Commerce, Dallas, El Paso, Fort Worth, Georgetown, Lubbock, and San Antonio, became charter branches of the AAUW Texas Division. The Waco Branch membership was made up of women in Bosque, Hill, Coryell, Falls, Limestone, and McLennan counties. For most of the 20th Century, the Waco Branch operated in accordance with state and national guidelines promoting education and equity for women. The Waco Branch hosted the Biennial State Conference in 1930, 1945, and 1975, usually at Baylor University, which held an institutional membership. The branch consistently donated to the national AAUW Educational Foundation and provided several scholarships to young women in their senior year of undergraduate study. Declining numbers of faculty and staff participants caused Baylor University to discontinue institutional affiliation with the national AAUW in 1997. The Waco Branch remained active until 2001, when rising dues costs and membership decline caused the branch to disband.
The Administrative Series, dated 1923-2002, includes minutes, charters, by-laws, convention bid proposals, and other general materials. Also included are membership rosters, treasurer’s reports, committee reports, handbooks, convention materials, scholarship materials, and branch award certificates. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Correspondence Series, dated 1923-2001, includes mostly general correspondence between officers and state or national representatives as well as local members discussing branch matters. Letters between Samuel Palmer Brooks and AAUW discuss establishing a solid female presence on the Board of Regents and an official Dean of Women. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Projects and Publications series is dated 1923-2001. Local, state, and national news and activities are documented in brochures, newsletters, magazines, and journals from each level. Yearbooks and directories provide input into membership through time, while handbooks show the changing needs of the group. Journals and newsletters provide contemporary insight into women’s issues, several of which are addressed for many years. Local projects are represented in this series, many aimed at the education, needs, and promotion of women as defined by the national AAUW. The series is in good condition and arranged in chronological order.
The Photographs and Scrapbooks series, dated 1926-2002, includes limited individual photographs but others incorporated into scrapbooks. Scrapbooks reflect activities and projects pursued by the association from chapter beginning to end. Early chapter history, predominantly newsletters, is most heavily presented in this format rather than throughout other series. There is a gap from 1948-1969 which seems to be consistent with the shortage of records in other parts of the collection. The series is arranged by material type, then chronologically within each type. The series is in good condition.
The Belton Brick Manufacturing Company was established in 1883 April, in Belton, Texas. Judge O. T. Tyler, George W. Tyler, and George J. Butler incorporated the company with $20,000 of capital stock. W. F. Beamer, also a shareholder, leased the brick yard yearly. The yard was located two miles east of the Bell County Courthouse, near the Leon River, and connected on a switch track to the Missouri Pacific Railroad. The location near the river, as well as clay and sand, allowed the company to produce straw-colored bricks, which became well known in the region. Records for the Belton Brick Manufacturing Company are unclear on end date of operations. However, W. F. Beamer operated at least one additional brick company in the area after Belton Brick.
The Administrative Series, dated 1883-1889, includes original stock certificates, contracts, and minute book for the company. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Financial series, dated 1883-1886, includes ledgers, day books, and account books. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
J.W. Curtis left a spouse and children to prospect for gold in El Dorado County, California, in 1854. His success at prospecting is unknown as is further information about him and his family.
This series contains a single transcribed letter, written by J.W. Curtis, describing his work at a California gold field near Sacramento.
The United Confederate Veterans (UCV) organization was founded in New Orleans in 1889. This was one of many groups founded after the American Civil War to support Confederate veterans and their families, give a space to socialize and reminisce, and promote the Confederate understanding of the Civil War. The Grand Army of the Republic functioned as the equivalent organization for United States veterans during this time. Organizational structure included local groups, called camps, and state, regional, and national officers. Many previously independent local Confederate veterans' organizations across the South affiliated with the new national group, while other local camps were established from the start as local UCV groups. Approximately 80,000 Confederate veterans, spread across the South in 1,555 camps, were members at the height of the organization, in 1898. National, state, and local reunions were an early feature of the group, which usually featured multiple-day gatherings of veterans and their families for a time to visit, hear speeches, and reminisce about the Civil War. The organization also sponsored a periodical, the Confederate Veteran. The United Confederate Veterans organization continued until the last annual reunion in 1950, when only one elderly member could attend. However, various organizations had been taking the lead for many years on organizing reunions and promoting the Confederate view of the war by that time, including the Sons of Confederate Veterans and the United Daughters of the Confederacy. These organizations continue today.
This series contains materials pertaining to the United Confederate Veterans, including a delegate's certificate to attend a reunion and a program for a reunion in Nacogdoches. This series is in average condition.
This series contains two essays, published by Yarrell out of Belton, Texas. It is not clear if these poems were part of a larger collection of poems or were published individually. This series is in average condition.
The United States Army occupied Texas after the American Civil War as part of a larger effort to occupy former Confederate states and enforce United States law. While some Texans cooperated, others sought to return the state to as close to antebellum Texas as possible. The Army was withdrawn in 1870 with the election of Edmund J. Davis as governor and readmission of Texas to the Union, ending military rule in Texas. The army's role of centralized law enforcement was inherited by the state militia and state police, answerable to the governor.
This series contains two military orders from United States army commanders during the occupation of Texas following the Civil War. This series is in excellent condition.
Evelyn Gay Creden (1909-1994), was born in Waco, Texas, to parents Albert and Mamie Gay. Her grandparents, James and Sarah Gay, came to Waco many years before her birth. Evelyn Gay attended Baylor University in Waco from 1925-1929 where she joined the Pi Beta Phi sorority in 1927. She married Thomas Harold Creden (1905-1993) of Wisconsin, and they lived in Dallas, New York, Milwaukee, and Galveston. Thomas Creden passed away in 1993, and Evelyn passed away in Galveston in 1994. They are both buried in Oakwood Cemetery, Waco, Texas.
This series contains clippings, poems, and biographical and genealogy information. This series is in excellent condition.
Edward Clark (1815-1880), governor of the state of Texas in 1861, was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He moved to Texas in 1841 and practiced law in Marshall. As a delegate to the Texas Constitutional Convention in 1845, he helped craft the initial state constitution. He later served as a state representative and senator. During the Mexican-American War, he temporarily set aside his political career to serve as an aide to General J. Pinckney Henderson. In 1853, he served as Texas secretary of state and later served as commissioner of claims. In 1859, he was elected lieutenant governor of Texas, with Sam Houston serving as governor. In 1861, when Sam Houston refused to take the oath of allegiance to the Confederacy, Houston was deposed as governor and Edward Clark was installed as governor. Clark worked with Confederate officials to raise troops and money to support the war effort, as well as communicating with nearby Mexico and various Native American tribes in West Texas and Indian Territory (-present day Oklahoma). Clark was defeated by Francis R. Lubbock in the 1861 election for Texas governor. Despite allegations of fraud, Clark transitioned the governor's office to Lubbock without protest and was commissioned into the Confederate Army as a colonel. After being wounded in the Battle of Pleasant Hill in 1864, he received an honorable discharge and returned to Texas. At the end of the war, Clark spent a short time in Mexico before returning to Texas. He was active in veterans' groups and fraternal organizations until his death in 1880 May 4.
This series contains two photocopies of an 1861 proclamation by Texas Governor Edward Clark, calling for a military force of 2,000 to be raised for service in the Confederate army. This series is in excellent condition.
Henry C. Smith was born in 1896 March. In 1918, he enlisted in the United States Army, intending to train as a pilot. He first entered cadet training school in 1918 April at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York. In July, he was transferred to continue his ground training at Camp Dick near Dallas, Texas. In September, he was assigned to Rich Field in Waco, Texas where he continued flight training until the war ended. After being discharged circa 1918 December, Smith return home to Pennsylvania where he remained for several years. By 1930, he was married to Ann Smith and had moved from Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania, to East Washington, Pennsylvania. By 1940, he had moved to Ohio. The date and location of his death are unknown.
Series I, Correspondence, consists of outgoing correspondence from Smith along with a few photographs, a postcard, and a printed copy of a poem. The series is in average condition.
Sinia Reaves Brewer Harris (1909-2004), the second daughter and third child of John Henry and Leona Ethel Dodson Reaves, was born 1909 November 25 in Milam County, Texas. She received her B.S. degree in Physical Education at Southwest Texas State University in San Marcos in 1938. She previously attended the University of Texas in Austin in 1937. Harris married Samuel Stephen Brewer on 1928 July 15. The couple had one daughter together, Marion Dolores Brewer, born on 1929 April 27. Sinia and Samuel Brewer divorced in 1941 May. She married Charles Louis Harris on 1942 November 26. Sinia Reaves Brewer Harris was the National Youth Administration’s project director (resident supervisor) for two facilities in Texas, Brenham and Corpus Christi, as well as the summer program in San Marcos. The National Youth Administration was a New Deal agency that provided work and education for American youth, between ages of 16 to 25, sponsored by the presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt. At the time Harris was involved, Lyndon B. Johnson was the head of the Texas division. In Brenham, Harris oversaw the Blinn College Girls’ Training School, which trained young women in the fields of recreation, office skills, and radio communication. In Corpus Christi, she oversaw the Defense Industrial Training Project at the Corpus Christi Defense Training Center, which was set up to train women to perform the tasks of historically male-dominated jobs so the men could serve in World War II. Additionally, Harris assisted in creating co-educational programs in Waco and Inks Dam, Texas. She was the Civilian Personnel Officer at Reese Air Force Base in Lubbock, Texas and at the James Connally Air Force Base in Waco, Texas. She was also a private speech teacher for two years in Milam County and a classroom teacher in Belmena and Curry rural schools in Milam County and in Cameron Public Schools for seven and half years. She retired on 1968 September 30 and passed away on 2004 June 21.
This series contains correspondences, newsletters, teaching contracts, project notes, and photographs. This series is in good condition.
This series contains correspondences, certificates, training materials, manuals, newspaper clippings, and photographs. This series is in good condition.
This series contains newspaper clippings, journal articles, and one photograph. This series is in good condition.
William Moses Jones was born in Copeville, Texas, on 1876 August 26. He attended Baylor from 1891 to 1898 and Yale from 1899 to 1900. He studied law at both schools and worked as a lawyer in Dallas, Texas, for most of his life. William Moses Jones married Osee Tom Cook Jones in 1903, and the couple had six children together. William Moses Jones died on 1973 August 6 in Houston, Texas, at the age of 96.
This series contains correspondence received by Jones while a student at Baylor University. The series is in good condition.
This series contains educational materials and photographs from Jones' time as a student at Baylor and Yale. This series is in good condition.
This series contains various materials collected by Jones during his life and a copy of his obituary. This series is in average condition.
Davis Robert Gurley (1836-1914) was born in Alabama on 1836 October 17, and moved to Waco in 1853 with his two brothers. He attended Wesleyan University in Alabama, graduating in 1858. Gurley enlisted in Company G, 6th Texas Cavalry, as a lieutenant in 1861. However, when Lawrence Sullivan Ross became commanding colonel of the regiment, he transferred Gurley to his staff, where he served as adjutant. When Ross' Brigade was formed, Gurley was promoted to major and became adjutant of the brigade. He served in this capacity for the rest of the American Civil War. After the war, Gurley returned to Waco and married Louisa Wells Loulie Earle Gurley. The couple had four daughters and a son together. Entering local politics, Gurley was elected as district clerk in 1866, and served as adjutant general of Texas under Governor James Throckmorton. After his brief political career, Gurley raised cotton and Jersey cattle on a farm south of Waco. As a Mason, he was heavily involved with J.H. Gurley Lodge #337 in Waco. He was a member of Fifth Street Methodist Church in Waco. Davis R. Gurley passed away on 1914 January 11 and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco.
This series contains an account book, probably of a Central Texas-area plantation, and loose materials from the account book. This series is in poor condition.
This series contains copied family genealogy pages and the Gurley family Bible. This series is in average condition.
The Waco Art League was organized by Charles H. Cox in Waco in 1900. Cox, an Englishman who was active in the Waco cotton business, and an accomplished watercolor artist, was the first president, and only male member of the club. The club was formed by a number of Waco women to encourage and stimulate art appreciation in local schools and the community. The league met monthly and hosted talks given by artists from various backgrounds and disciplines. They also sponsored art shows and exhibits. The group was involved with civic projects such as bringing art into local schools and hosting art competitions as part of the Waco Cotton Palace. With the desire to open an art museum, the league members collected and displayed artwork in locations throughout Waco such as the public library and YWCA. A museum fund was set aside, but as years passed, this idea was not realized.
Eventually the fund and profits of art sales went to other local organizations. In addition, the group provided financial assistance locally in the form of Baylor University student art scholarships and donations to institutions such as the YWCA of Waco, Waco Art Center, and the Armstrong Browning Library at Baylor University. The organization celebrated their 90th Anniversary in 1990, but as of 2021 it is no longer in operation.
The ledger consists of notes from around the 1930s. The scrapbook provides the most information about the group and includes items from 1900-1985, mostly concentrated in the 1960s to 1970s. By-laws, limited correspondence, newspapers clippings, photographs, yearbooks, programs, and a list of past presidents are present. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Publications series is dated 1929-1968. The series includes programs and yearbooks which denote activities and membership of the organization. Yearbooks, mostly from the 1960s and 1970s, can also be found in the Scrapbook held in the Administrative series. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
Joe Harry Lewis (1910-1977) founded his first business, a grocery store in Galveston, as a college student at the University of Texas. After two years, Lewis opened a shoe store and sold his grocery store to a business partner. There is no evidence that he finished coursework at the University of Texas or received a degree. In 1934, Joe Lewis founded the Lewis Shoe Store business, opening the first store at 701 Austin Avenue in Waco. The location changed to 721 Austin Avenue, the permanent location until the store’s closure. Lewis continued to expand his business with new store locations, opening four locations in Waco and other locations around Central Texas. At some point, Lewis married Gertrude Lewis. The couple had two children, a daughter and an adopted son. After Joe Lewis’ death in 1977, the business was managed by his son-in-law Martin Clark for a few years. After some years, Clark sold the remaining stores. No Lewis Shoe Stores remain in operation today.
This series contains a scrapbook created by the [Waco] Lewis Shoe Store. The scrapbook consists of the store’s advertisement materials from the 1950s-1960s. These advertisement materials include photographs, newspaper ads, magazine ads, radio ads, TV commercials, store window designs, and information on events and promotions.
C. E. Bryant (1917-2000) was born in Booneville, Arkansas, as Cyril Eric Bryant Jr. in 1918. Ordained at age 18 by his home church, he attended Ouachita College (now Ouachita University) for two years. Bryant transferred to Baylor University to study journalism under longtime professor Frank Burkhalter. Graduating in 1939, Bryant became director of Baylor's Public Relations Office. With the onset of World War II, Bryant moved on to jobs at Ridgecrest Baptist Assembly in North Carolina, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Kentucky, and the Baptist Press. Bryant returned to Baylor in 1949 as the director of public relations, serving in that role until 1957. The final job of his professional career was as the first director of communications at the Baptist World Alliance, 1957-1982. C.E. Bryant passed away in 2000 and is buried in Lake View Memorial Gardens, St. Clair County, Illinois.
This series contains letters between Bryant and various people, including former students of Paul Baker, and Baker himself. Most letters contain biographical information about Paul Baker or have information about Baker's life. This series is in good condition.
This series contains materials about Baker's theater productions, a commencement address he gave at Trinity University, and several different drafts of a Reader's Digest article written about him by C.E. Bryant. This series is in average condition.
Ann Adelia Oldham (1903-1966), was born in New Mexico to Richard and Minnie Oldham. A 1924 graduate of Baylor University, Ann Oldham lived in Abilene, Texas, where she actively participated in music and art programs. A member of the Daughters of the American Revolution, she served on its state American Music Committee. She died on 1966 March 25, and is buried in the Abilene Municipal Cemetery.
This series includes programs, correspondence, printed materials, newspaper clippings, and other materials documenting the life and interests of Ann Oldham. This series is in good condition.
W. L. "Jake" Wilson (1907-1996) was from Waco, Texas, and played football under Coach Paul Tyson at Waco High School. Attending Baylor University, he was an all-Southwest Conference football team member in 1928, 1929, and 1930. He served in the United States Navy in World War II. He and his wife Mary Frances Wilson (1910-1980) had one daughter, Ann Wilson Brown.
This series contains correspondence, wedding materials for Ann Wilson and Donald Brown, clippings, and other materials. The collected materials folder mostly contains information about other family members. This series is in good condition.
Laura Wise Maverick (1878-1956) was born in San Antonio, Texas, to William H. Maverick and Emilia Virginia Chilton Maverick. Laura attended St. Mary's Hall Episcopal school, in San Antonio, and Wheaton Female Seminary in Norton, Massachusetts. On 1894 April 19, Laura married San Antonio doctor Amos Lawson Graves. They would have two children: Amos Maverick and Laura Maverick. Laura and her children moved to New York after she left, and later divorced, Amos Graves. Laura was a talented contralto who toured and sang throughout the United States and Canada. She sang at Carnegie Hall, and debuted with the Russian Symphony Orchestra in 1912. Laura had a wide repertoire, singing in three languages, and was especially popular among New York and Texas concert goers. Laura later married Carl Hahn, a cellist, composer, and conductor, and the two toured and performed together during the 1910s. They would later divorce. They had no children. The Maverick name is synonymous with the Texas Revolution and early Texas history. Laura would continue to enhance that name through her artistic contributions. Laura passed away on 1956 January 31 at the age of 77 and is buried in Mission Burial Park South in San Antonio.
The personal materials series contains the scrapbook, diary, and travel journal of Laura Wise Maverick, documenting the personal and professional life of the Texas contralto. Included in these materials are programs, press releases, playbills, news clippings, photographs, and personal documents.
Dr. Allan P. Robb was a lecturer in the English Department at Baylor University from 1982-1996. One of the courses he taught was English 1304: Thinking Writing, and Research, one of two courses accepted to fulfill the advanced writing requirement in the core curriculum of the Arts and Sciences degree. The course was “designed to teach students to gather and evaluate information from a variety of sources and to incorporate ideas from these sources into writing of a research paper.” From 1986-1995, Robb used the class to research and document the history of the Sanger Heights Neighborhood in Waco, Texas. Students acquired oral interviews, tax records, floor plans, photographs, maps, and copies of other historical documents and utilized their findings to write term papers for the English 1304 course.
The Properties series, dated 1986-1995, includes term papers documenting the history of residences and businesses in the Sanger Heights Neighborhood of Waco, Texas. Research items present include photographs, hand drawn floor plans, copies of tax records, and other historical documents that provide insight into ownership and upkeep of individual addresses. In addition, names of the students who created the files are included. The series is arranged by street address and in good condition.
The Cassettes series, dated 1986-1995, includes oral interviews with home and business owners of properties in the Sanger Heights Neighborhood. Cassettes correspond to addresses in the Properties series. The series is arranged by street address and in good condition.
Robert Preston Taylor was born in Henderson, Texas, on April 11, 1909. He attended the Jacksonville College Academy (High School) and Jacksonville College (Junior College) prior to enrolling at Baylor University where he was active with the Ministers Association. He graduated in 1933 and went on to receive Master of Theology and Doctor of Theology degrees from the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth, Texas. While serving as pastor at South Fort Worth Baptist Church in 1938, Taylor received word that the Chaplains Division of the War Department was seeking men to volunteer in the chaplaincy of the armed services. He volunteered as a reserve, serving shortly that summer at Fort Hood. In 1940, he volunteered for a full year of service and was assigned to the Army Air Corp and the 31st Infantry Regiment, Philippine Division located at Barksdale Field, Louisiana. The division was activated and arrived in the Philippines in May 1941. While serving his tour, Chaplain Taylor was taken as a prisoner of war in the Philippines. He was held captive for forty-two months, enduring the harshest of conditions in camps as well as the Bataan Death March and Hell Ships. In 1945, Taylor was liberated while encamped in Manchuria. He arrived in San Francisco, California, on November 1, 1945, and was given 105 days of convalescent leave, during which he decided to continue serving as a military chaplain. His career took him to camps across the United States, and in 1962, he was appointed Chief Chaplain of the United Stated Air Force at the rank of Major General. He held this position until his military retirement in 1966. In 1966, Chaplain Taylor began work in the development office at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth, Texas. He retired as a civilian in 1973. Robert Preston Taylor married Mildred Good in 1950, and they had one son, Robert Preston Taylor, Jr. The elder Taylor was honored for his services during World War II with a Silver Star, Bronze Star, and the Presidential Unit Citation with two oak leaf clusters. In addition, the Joint Forces Staff College Chapel in Norfolk, Virginia was dedicated in his name in 2002. He is also one of three men enshrined in the Baylor University Ring of Honor on campus. The Chaplain, Major General Robert Preston Taylor Memorial Endowed Scholarship was established in 2004 at the George W. Truett Theological Seminary to support students preparing for careers as chaplains in the United Sates Armed Forces, National Guard, or Reserves. Chaplain, Major General Robert Preston Taylor died February 1, 1997, and is buried in the Field of Honor at Restland Memorial Park in Dallas, Texas.
The correspondence series is dated 1945-1992. A primary portion of the included documents are congratulatory letters on military promotions and retirement. Thank you letters, invitations for speaking engagements, and personal correspondence are also included. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The General series is dated 1951-2002 and is primarily speech notes and event programs. Programs document Chaplain Taylor’s invited sermons, including his final military worship service at Carswell Air Force Base which was located outside of Fort Worth, Texas. Other programs include receptions for the Chapel of Four Chaplains Awards Banquet and the dedication of the Robert P. Taylor Memorial Chapel at the Joint Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
Military records are dated 1946-1966 and are inclusive of Robert Preston Taylor’s military career after his time as a Prisoner of War. Official orders, newsletters written by the chaplain, appointment books, correspondence, and activity reports are present. In addition, a significant number of sermons given while on active duty are present. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Photographs series, dated 1948-1987, includes material primarily from Chaplain Taylor’s military career. Military portraits, luncheons, dinners, event attendance, and celebrations are documented. Several folders include official military photographs from a visit with Archbishop Eugenious in Crete. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Publications series, dated 1961-1996, includes a history of the United States Air Force Chaplain services from its beginnings in the Army Air Unit to 1990 and several books recounting experiences of soldiers involved in the Bataan Death March, Taylor is remembered in these accounts. Also included are clippings, recruiting materials, and a history of the 31st Infantry Division. The series is arranged alphabetically, books first, and in excellent condition.
The Audiovisual series is dated 1962-1988. Items include sermons and appearances Taylor made while in service of the United States Air Force as well as in civilian life. Standout items include open-reel recordings of his sermon at the Iraklion Air Station Chapel in Crete in 1963, and his final sermon as an active-duty officer given at Carswell Air Force Base on July 31, 1966. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
Florence Josephine Speight McKenney (1847-1922), the first daughter of prominent early Waco citizens Joseph and Josephine S. Pruitt Speight, was born in Mississippi on 1847 September 21. It is unknown what education she received, but she married E.A. McKenney after the Civil War, in 1868. E.A.
McKenney was originally from Canada, served as a Captain in the 6th Texas Cavalry during the Civil War, and later became Mayor of Waco after the war. The couple had six children together. Florence McKenny passed away on 1922 December 26, and is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Waco, Texas.
This series contains various materials created by Florence Speight McKenney and E.A. McKenney, including financial and legal documents, correspondence, songs and poems, art, photographs, and a herbarium. This series is in poor condition.
Horace Clark (1819-1909) was born in Massachusetts to John and Catherine Aldrich Clark. After his father passed away in 1821, he served aboard a merchant ship and was nearly forced into the Portuguese Navy in Rio de Janeiro. At seventeen years old, he enrolled in Shurtleff College in Illinois then transferred to Georgetown College in Kentucky to complete his degree. He and Martha Davis were married on 1844 March 30. Clark served as principal of Henry Academy in New Castle, Kentucky for four years before becoming principal of La Grange Collegiate Institute in La Grange, Texas, in 1851. On 1851 June 18, he became the principal of the Baylor Female Department in Independence, Texas. For the next fifteen years, he played a pivotal role in female education in Texas as head of Baylor University's Female Department, which had its own campus and buildings separate from the Male Department. He raised the funds to build a large three-story stone building for the Female Department, one of the finest university buildings at the time. Despite his sometimes rocky relationship with Rufus Burleson, president of Baylor University and head of the Male Department, he ensured female students received a quality education, and defended the need to educate women in a time when that was not recognized by everyone. Clark also served as the secretary of the Baptist State Convention 1856-1868, and was corresponding secretary in 1861, 1864, 1868-1870, and 1875. He was ordained a Baptist pastor by Independence Baptist Church in 1858. In 1866, Horace Clark resigned as principal of the department. The Male Department had moved to Waco from Independence in 1861; so, in 1866 the Baptist State Convention of Texas organized Clark's Female Department into Baylor Female College. Benjamin Simms Fitzgerald was named the first president. He served for one year before Horace Clark was elected to replace him. Clark served for four years, before resigning to open his own school in Houston, called Clark's Academy. The school operated until 1878 or 1879.
In 1877, Horace Clark joined the Episcopal Church, as he had been Baptist until that time. His wife, Martha Davis Clark, remained a Baptist until her death in 1896 January 9. In 1878, he became an Episcopal deacon at Christ Church, Houston. In 1879, he was ordained as an Episcopal priest, and became the priest at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Corpus Christ in in 1880. He served there for the next eighteen years. Clark was also a Mason and served as grand chaplain of the Grand Lodge of Texas 1876-1879, 1884-1885, 1901-1902. Horace Clark passed away on 1909 February 10 and is buried in Glennwood Cemetery, Houston.
This series contains materials documenting the life of Horace Clark, principal of Baylor Female Department and College and later an Episcopal minister. This series is in average condition.
Philip Dale (P.D.) Browne taught in the Texas Education System as well as conducted research on the Civil War, specifically in the Freestone County, Texas area. He worked at Seventh and James Baptist Church and later was a mathematics and religion teacher at Baylor University, both in Waco, Texas. Jack Beaumont Hamm was born March 5, 1916, in Wichita, Kansas. He studied in Chicago at the Moody Bible Institute and the Frederick Mizen Art Academy. Lack of funds contributed to his leaving school and pursuing other work, notably at Newspaper Enterprise Association (NEA) in Cleveland, Ohio, as a cartoonist. Hamm also served in the Army with stops in Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. Hamm enrolled at Baylor University and created content for the Baptist Standard and moved his studio to Dallas, Texas. Eventually, he also became an instructor at Dallas Baptist College (now University). Jack Hamm was married to the former Dorisnel Alexander and had four children. Hamm died December 22, 1996, in Dallas, Texas. He is buried in the Gordo City Cemetery in Gordo, Alabama.
The Original Drawings series is dated circa 1945 with undated materials. The undated materials are pencil drawings created while Jack Hamm was employed in Cleveland, Ohio, and represented by Artists’ and Literary Agent Bertha Klausner, located in New York City. The dated materials are pen and ink drawings created for use in the Baylor University yearbook. Hamm was a student at Baylor when these were created. The series is arranged in chronological order and in good condition.
The Prints and Clippings series is dated 1941-1960. Stupe the Student was a regular column in the Lariat for which Hamm wrote and created an illustration. Other items are primarily religious in nature, created by Religious Drawings, Inc., while Hamm's studio was in Waco. Original newspaper clippings have been retained for context and intended appearance. The series is arranged in chronological order and is in good condition.
The [Waco] Clifton Manufacturing Company was established in Waco, Texas, in 1909 by Albert Turner Clifton, Henry Coffield, W. R. Clifton, and W. D. Lacy as Clifton Coffield Manufacturing Company. In 1910, Albert T. Clifton became the main proprietor and remained so until his death in 1948. He was succeeded by his son, Albert Lacy Clifton, as sole owner. Albert L. previously worked in the company as cutter, supervisor, and general manager. The company began producing canvas products because of its proximity to local cotton fields. Items such as tents and tarpaulins, cotton sacks, and wagon covers were popular in early years while automotive seat covers were added in the 1920s and apparel in the 1930s. In the 1940s and 50s, cotton military products became a staple as Clifton Manufacturing was awarded several military contracts. In the 1960s, the company received the Quality Control Award given by the Department of Defense Supply Agency for at least five consecutive years. During this time the company also began to shift toward primarily manufacturing apparel. On April 30, 1969, Clifton Manufacturing Company merged with Juvenile Manufacturing Company of San Antonio, Texas. By July, the company was renamed Santone Industries, Inc.
The Personal series, dated 1909-1976, includes certificates, legal documents, clippings, and photographs. Materials from other Clifton businesses, such as Clifton Buick and Clifton-Simpson Furniture Co., as well as the “Q” flag from Clifton Manufacturing, are also present. The series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Administrative series, dated 1921-1974, includes correspondence, legal documents, employee handbooks and newsletters, organizational charts, trademarks and patents, personnel and operations policies and manuals. Correspondence includes litigation with the company Koratron on a trademark and patent infringement case and the matter of royalty payments, granted trademarks, and patents. There is also a review of trademark concerns surrounding O’Brien Manufacturing and Nev-R-Iron usage. The newsletter Slips and Tips was produced from 1943-1954 and includes important company information as well as personal advertisements, inspirational quotes, and employee news, and provides insight into the push for war bond sales and support of active-duty military by employees. Obvious concern for company longevity is present in materials from the 1960s and is represented through organizational charts, ideas, and analysis of operations and possible improvements. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Financial series is dated 1917-1972 and includes, budgets, sales reports, audits, credit memos, schedules, inventories, and refinancing information. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Product Information series is dated 1910-1971 and provides a comprehensive look at the products manufactured and sold by the company through catalogs, fabric swatches, inventory and price lists, and employee sales books. Product catalogs document the evolution of the company from selling canvas products such as automotive seat covers, tire covers, car roofs, and driving apparel, awnings, and tents to apparel. Sales books list products and pricing made available to wholesalers along with catalogs and flyers, personal notations, and periodic company correspondence for the salesperson.
In most cases, the books overlap with the general catalogs but provide insight into individual working processes. Due to the adhesives used, some catalog sample pages are fused together, and caution should be used when handling these materials. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
The Photographs and Printing Plates series, dated 1914-1987, includes general photographs from company events and products, advertisement cut sheets and original artwork, and copy for catalogs. Some photographs have been altered in preparation for use in printing plates. Plates are present in both metal and paper formats. A portion of the photographs are listed as undated, however, markings on the backs suggest they were created by the Windy Drum Studio which was active in Waco during the 1950s and 1960s. The series is in chronological order and in good condition.
In 1940, United States Army Surgeon General James C. Magee formed reserve units affiliated with medical schools and hospitals to be activated if the United States went to war. One such reserve unit was formed at Baylor University College of Medicine, with Professor of Medicine Henry Winan, M.D., appointed as the unit’s commander. The unit was activated on 1942 March 29 and based out of Fort Sam Houston, with Colonel Henry Blesse, a doctor from the regular army, taking over command on 1942 May 4. In 1943, the unit shipped overseas, spending several weeks in Casablanca, Morocco, before setting up a hospital in Bizerte, Tunisia on 1943 June 20. For the next several months, the unit provided hospital support for forces fighting in Sicily, Salerno, Paestum, and Avellino. In 1944, the unit provided support for Operation Shingle and the landing at Anzio. During the fighting, the hospital was shelled, but First Lieutenant Mary Roberts kept the operating room functioning, earning her a Silver StarDLthe first such decoration to be awarded to an American woman. After relocating several more times throughout 1944 and 1945 to support Army operations, the unit finally shipped home in October of 1945.
This series consists of a certificate of appreciation, a letter, and copied newspaper clippings related to the achievements of the 56th Evacuation Hospital. This series is in excellent condition.
The Baylor-Waco Foundation was initially organized by a group of forty Waco citizens in a meeting held 1959 December 9. The Foundation’s purpose, according to Article 4 of its Articles of Incorporation, is “to solicit funds and donations for and to plan and promote programs for the development and growth of Baylor University at Waco.” The Foundation’s fundraising campaigns in the 1960s and early 1970s focused on raising money to purchase land for Baylor University through Waco’s Urban Renewal program. In the 1970s, 1980s, and early 1990s the Foundation turned its fundraising efforts towards construction and renovation projects on Baylor’s campus. These projects included developing the Baylor Marina, constructing the W. R. Poage Legislative Library, renovating the Marrs McLean Gymnasium, paving the parking lot of the Ferrell Center, providing lights for Ferrell Field, and resurfacing the Baylor Track. In the 1990s and 2000s, the Foundation shifted its focus towards projects that would benefit both Baylor and Waco, funding the acoustic shell at Waco Hall, a permanent home for Texas State Little League Headquarters, renovations to Armstrong Browning Library, a playground for Piper Child Development Center, a community meeting facility in the Harry & Anna Jeanes Discovery Center, a chapel lobby in the Stacy Riddle Forum, replacement flooring in Ferrell Center, underwriting a National Public Radio financial program, and providing visual enhancements for the Barfield Drawing Room. The Baylor-Waco Foundation currently provides grant funding to “local non-profit organizations working in economic development, health, education, cultural wealth and city growth.” In 2020, the Foundation supplied grants totaling $90,000 to seven local non-profit organizations. The Foundation is also actively involved in Baylor’s Philanthropy & Public Good Course and the Solid Gold Neighbor Research Fellows Program.
Series I. Administrative Files contains articles of incorporation and bylaws, meeting agenda and minutes, memos, publicity, advertisements, brochures, volunteer rosters, contributor lists, and two scrapbooks. The series is in average condition.
SicEm365. As of 2021 March 4, the URL “baylorfans. com” redirects to “SicEm365. com.” This series contains printouts of message board posts discussing a variety of topics about Baylor University and its administration. The series is in good condition.
Ben Herbert Phelper, was born in 1916. His early education is unknown, but in his twenties, he began work as an illustrator for Walt Disney. Phelper enlisted in the United States Air Force in Los Angeles at the age of 25, and was recruited into military intelligence to organize United States prisoners in German prisoner of war camps. After re-enlisting in Chicago under the name Ben Phelper as directed, he completed two years of training in the United States and England. While on a bombing mission in Germany, he was shot down, captured, and sent to Kems-on-the-Danube prison camp in Austria. For two years, Phelper organized and led guerilla raids against the German war effort while still a prisoner. When he was freed in 1945 May 3, he offered copies of diaries and over 1,000 photographs from his time as a prisoner to the United States military. They kept the photographs, but allowed him to keep the diaries. Years later, two other prisoners of war claimed that they had been in a pact with Phelper to jointly accumulate materials and co-write a book about their prisoner of war experiences, but that Phelper took all the photographs and diaries at the end of the war. Back in the United States, he wrote about his experiences during the war in a number of books, and compiled information about the John F. Kennedy assassination. Phelper married Marjorie Anne Gale in 1950. In 1964, he was accused of taking obscene photographs and sending them through the mail. He carried the case all the way to the Supreme Court, but it is unknown if he won the case or not. Phelper retired from the Air Force in 1971 and moved to Texas permanently. Ben Phelper passed away on 1993 September 29, and is buried in Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery.
This series contains a typed copy of Phelper's World War II prisoner of war diaries, various books and plays based on them, and accompanying resources. This series is in good condition.
This series contains correspondence, newsletters, unpublished manuscripts written by Phelper, and a published manuscript that Phelper helped edit. This series is in good condition.
Thomas A. Pickett was born on August 14, 1906, in Travis, Falls County, Texas. He lived briefly in Iola and then moved to Palestine, Texas with his family in 1913. He attended public schools there and graduated from Palestine High School in 1923. Pickett then attended Conway's Business College and worked for one year in his father's law office. He attended the University of Texas from 1924 to 1928. While in his first year at the university, he was elected freshman class president. Following graduation, Pickett was admitted to the state bar and began practice in Palestine in 1929.
Pickett served as Anderson County Attorney from 1931 until 1935. Next, he served as district attorney for the 3rd Judicial District from 1935 to 1945. In his last year of district attorney, Pickett turned towards politics and ran for a seat in the House of Representatives. Having successfully, unseated incumbent Nat Patton in the Democratic primary, Pickett went on to defeat Republican J. Perrin Willis in the general election. He began his term as member of Congress, representing Texas' 7th District on January 3, 1945. Pickett's political successes continued in the subsequent elections of 1946, 1948, and 1950. Each time, running unopposed. In Congress, Pickett served on the House Public Works, Veterans Affairs, and Administration committees. Pickett resigned from office on June 30, 1952 and was succeeded by John Dowdy in September 1952. After public office, Pickett served as vice-president of the National Coal Association from 1952 until 1961 and the Association of American Railroads from 1961 to 1968. Pickett later moved to Florida in 1968. Pickett died on June 7, 1980, in Leesburg, Florida.
As a member of Congress from 1945 to 1952, Pickett ran in four successful campaigns. Items in this series include speech texts, radio spots, and press material.
The Legislative series is the most robust series in the Pickett Papers and is arranged topically. From activity reports to his voting record, items reflects Pickett’s role as a representative of Texas’ 7th Congressional district. Casework documents individuals and veterans requesting assistance in obtaining pensions increases and disability compensation. Of note is a request for a Civil War Veteran's headstone. Foreign affairs include about foreign policy in a post-World War II era and aid to Korea. Public Works materials chronicle Pickett's support and work on projects such as Dams along the Neches-Angelina River, the Sabine Neches Waterway, and the need for flood control along the Trinity River. Also included is a proposal for the completion of the Rusk Charcoal Blast Furnace and Chemical Plant in Rusk, Texas, and the United States Department of the Interior. Also featured is Pickett’s legislation regarding printing of briefs for House of Representatives members about the steel seizure case. Pickett’s interest in the economic effects of railroad reorganization for the International-Great Northern Railroad Company (I.-G.N.) on his home district in Anderson County is included is present Material relates to issue of submerged land rights in states and the ensuing Tidelands controversy and Supreme Court case. Publications, reports, and correspondence related to California and Texas Tidelands are present.
Personal material features biographical information about Pickett including a resume and photograph. Miscellaneous personal correspondence is also present. Of note is Pickett’s “Century Vault Letter,” which was published in the San Antonio Express in 1949 and written by Pickett to readers 100 years in the future.
Homer Warren was a former mayor of Hewitt, dairyman, banker, and community leader. His former family business, Meadowbrook Farms, is located in Hewitt, Texas. Meadowbrook Farms produced and sold fresh milk products in McLennan County from the early 1900s until around 1965.
In 1969, Bullock joined the staff of incoming Governor Preston Smith and served as appointments secretary and general counsel before Governor Smith named him Secretary of State in 1971. Bullock's service as Texas Secretary of State was marked by major election law reforms, including Bullock's implementation of the first state-financed party primaries and an extensive broadening of campaign finance disclosure requirements. Bullock left state service at the end of 1972 and again set up an Austin law practice. By the end of 1973, he was well on his way to his first statewide race for State Comptroller. He served as Comptroller for the next 16 years, turning the office into a model agency with a special emphasis on financial research and taxpayer service. Bullock recognized early in his career the value of the press. When he became Comptroller in 1975, an important part of his administration was to begin diligent collection of state sales taxes. He discovered too many businesses collected state sales taxes from their customers but failed to report and remit those taxes to the state. As part of a “voluntary compliance” campaign, Bullock would invite the press to Comptroller visits to businesses owing significant amounts of state sales taxes. Armed with estimates of past due taxes, Bullock and Comptroller enforcement officers would arrive unannounced at a business and ask for payment of back taxes. If the business owners did not pay, enforcement officers would seize inventory and cash registers. These raids on delinquent businesses spawned cartoons, editorials, and invaluable press coverage, including some suggestions that Bullock was grandstanding. But the statewide press coverage of “Bullock’s Raiders” made important and valuable impressions on delinquent taxpayers and on the average tax paying Texan. Bullock’s service as Comptroller ended in 1990 when he was elected to the office of Lieutenant Governor.
The Correspondence section of this series is arranged into general correspondence, media correspondence (alpha and mass form mailings), and staff correspondence. Staff correspondence is restricted, please contact archivist for further information. Other portions may also be restricted. The series is in good condition.
The Issue Files are arranged into three subseries: Education, General, and Redistricting. The Education section contains correspondence, memos, reports, bills, news clippings, brochures, and publications. The General Issue subseries is large and encompasses all issues not classified as Education or Redistricting. The Redistricting subseries material covers from 1970 to 1981. Located in these files is information on census data, court cases, legal briefs and research, congressional district summaries, Senate maps and proposals, and news clippings on redistricting dating 1971-1972 and 1979-1980.
Found in the Itineraries series are appointment books, appointment sheets, calendar sheets, weekly schedules, and handwritten calendars for the years 1975-1985. There are no records of itineraries for the years 1986-1988.
Notebooks are predominantly tied to issues. There are five notebooks containing education workshop papers and a two-volume set of notebooks titled Comptroller’s Media Books which contain information on newspapers in Texas, listed alphabetically by city. Issue-specific notebooks found in these files were separated and cataloged.
Files in the Policies and Procedures series deal with the daily workings and organization of the comptroller’s office. Budget, job descriptions and standards, front office policies, codes of conduct, specific divisions policies and practices, and field office policies and practices are only a few. These files range from 1975 to 1991, with the bulk from 1979-1983.
The Reports series contains materials both to Bullock’s office, with the bulk of the material from 1985-1986. These reports relate to economic and revenue issues, and also operational reports that deal with the different facets and divisions of the comptroller’s office.
This series contains publications such as The Capital Griddle and other newsletters.
Chet Edwards was born in Corpus Christi, Nueces County, Texas, November 24, 1951. In 1974, he graduated Magna Cum Laude with a B.A. in Economics from Texas A&M University. Edwards worked for three years from 1974-1977 for Congressman Olin E. "Tiger" Teague as a legislative and district administrative assistant in the 6th district of Texas. Congressman Teague was the most highly decorated World War II veteran in Congress and was known for 32 years as "Mr. Veteran" in Congress. At the age of 26, Edwards was encouraged by Congressman Teague to become his successor in 1978.
Congressman Edwards narrowly lost in the Democratic primary to Phil Gramm, but went on to earn an MBA from the Harvard Business School in 1981. In the 1980's, Edwards worked as a marketing representative at the Trammell Crow Company in commercial real estate. Additionally, he owned and was the president of Edwards Communications, a rural radio station in South Texas. Edwards began his 28-year public service career as a state senator, being elected in 1982 as the youngest member of the Texas Senate at age 30. From 1983 to 1990, Edwards served Central Texas District 9 in the Texas Senate, participating in the 68th-71st Legislatures. He was on the Health and Human Resources Committee, and chaired the Senate Nominations Committee. Edwards was also chairman of the Texas Sunset Commission, a joint commission which reviews state agencies on a 12-year rotation, as well as chair of the Texas Election Code Revision Committee, and the Committee on Business, Technology, and Education. Edwards had a number of legislative accomplishments during his time in the Texas Senate. As a member of Senate committees on education, he was a champion for making educational improvements, including public education reform and education for women and minorities in engineering. He was also a champion of High Technology economic development legislation which included research on the Superconducting Super Collider. His labor legislation reformed workers’ compensation, and business legislation dealt with trucking deregulation, and the Texas Growth Fund. Edwards was also involved in Health and Human Services by strengthening the Board of Medical Examiners, chairing the Sunset Commission and passing Texas Department of Human Services legislation, and requiring criminal background checks for nursing home employees. He was also known as a champion for Texas’s senior citizens, was influential in agriculture, worked on consumer legislation, including compromise on AT&T deregulation, and reformed the primary election process by passing Super Tuesday legislation. Edwards received the “Texas Business” Award during the 68th Regular Session as one of three outstanding freshman legislators. He was named one of the Ten Best Legislators by Texas Monthly magazine in 1985. Edwards was elected as a congressman in 1990, serving in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1991-2010. He served as a member on the House Budget Committee, the Appropriations Committee, and the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, and as vice chair of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. He also co-chaired the House Army Caucus. Congressman Edwards was known as a national champion for America's veterans, troops, and their families. After becoming Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee in 2007, Congressman Edwards authored a huge increase in funding for veterans health care and benefits, the largest increase in veterans funding in the history of the Veterans Administration. Edwards also played a key role in enacting the 21st Century GI Bill of Rights into law, covering the full cost of a college education for our troops. When he represented Fort Hood, the world's largest Army base, Congressman Edwards played a major leadership role in support of the U.S. Army, troops, and military families. He was co-chair of the House Army Caucus for over a decade and served on the House Armed Services and Veterans Affairs Committees for six years before joining the Appropriations Committee. Edwards became known as a leader in the fight against nuclear terrorism, and in 2001, strongly opposed cuts to the nuclear non-proliferation budget proposed by the Bush Administration. Serving as a member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Edwards helped to oversee key homeland defense and university research programs to protect Americans from the threat of nuclear terrorism. During his 20-year tenure in Congress, including 12 years of seniority on the powerful Appropriations Committee, Congressman Edwards developed a reputation of working hard and effectively for his Central Texas constituents. This reputation was the result of his commitment to protecting jobs and the local economy by making vital federal investments in key education, health, transportation, and water programs in his District. Edwards is known as a fiscal conservative who believes massive federal deficits and the multi-trillion national debt are harmful to our economy and morally wrong to pass on to our children and grandchildren. He adopted a pro-economic, pro-agriculture record which earned him several endorsements, and was known as a supporter of Second Amendment rights. As a respected voice on issues facing working families, Edwards pushed for increased access to health care for children of working families under the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP), supported middle class tax cuts, and protected Medicare and Social Security benefits for America's seniors. Edwards was also recognized as a defender of religious liberty. Since leaving Congress in 2011, Edwards was appointed the W. R. Poage Distinguished Chair of Public Service at Baylor University. He established Edwards, Davis Stover & Associates, LLC with his former chief of staff, Lindsey Davis Stover, and continues to be involved with veterans issues in the Washington, D.C. area through his work on the boards of the Military Child Education Coalition and the Arlington National Cemetery Advisory Commission.
This series covers Edwards’ entire Texas Senate career and includes materials related to administrative tasks, such as campaign and travel expenses, guest registers, and system and formatting instructions. This series also includes Legislative accomplishments and reports, county-specific constituent requests, and biographical materials. Of particular note is a folder of collected and copied materials related to “Tiger” Teague, Edwards’s mentor.
This series includes topical materials from the 67th Legislature, 1981-1982. It is important to note that Edwards was not yet a Senator during this session.
This series contains papers from the 68th Legislature, 1983-1984. This was Edwards’s first session in the Texas Senate. It contains subseries: Correspondence, Senate Bills, Senate Resolutions, House Bills, Topical, and Administrative. A few topics of importance among these subseries are budget crisis, education, health, Blue Law, DWI and drinking age, election code, oil and gasoline, the Public Utilities Commission, pari-mutuel gambling, redistricting, and trucking deregulation. The Administrative subseries refers to materials related to administrative tasks, session wrap-up, appointments, columns and press releases, or various materials that relate to the legislative session as a whole.
This series has papers from the 69th Legislature, 1985-1986. It contains the subseries: Correspondence, Senate Bills, Senate Resolutions, House Bills, Topical, and Administrative. A few topics of importance among these subseries are abortion, budget crisis, education, health, health facilities, and healthcare, Blue Law, drinking age, election code, high technology, mental health, pari-mutuel gambling, prison reform, seatbelt laws, teacher retirement, and utilities. High Technology legislation was initiated by the 69th Legislature in 1985. Many of these materials have earlier dates as they were gathered in preparation for the new legislation. The Administrative subseries refers to materials related to administrative tasks, session wrap-ups and summaries, appointments, columns and press releases, or various materials that relate to the legislative session as a whole.
This series has papers from the 70th Legislature, 1987. It contains the subseries: Correspondence, Senate Bills, Senate Resolutions, House Bills, House Resolutions, Topical, and Administrative. A few topics of importance among these subseries are abortion, budget crisis, criminal justice, education, health and healthcare, high technology, home equity, mental health, pari-mutuel gambling, seatbelt laws, tort reform, trucking deregulation, utilities, and women and minorities in engineering. The Administrative subseries refers to materials related to administrative tasks, session wrap-ups and summaries, or various materials that relate to the legislative session as a whole.
This series holds papers from the 71st Legislature, 1989-1990, Edwards’s last session in the Texas Senate. It contains the subseries: Correspondence, Senate Bills, Senate Resolutions, House Bills, House Resolutions, Topical, and Administrative. A few topics of importance among these subseries are abortion, education, Medicaid, taxes, and especially workers’ compensation. The Administrative subseries refers to materials related to administrative tasks, session wrap-ups and summaries, potential legislation, appointments, columns, press releases, and newsletters, or various materials that relate to the legislative session as a whole.
Chet Edwards was born in Corpus Christi, Nueces County, Texas, 1951 November 24. In 1974, he graduated Magna Cum Laude with a B.A. in Economics from Texas A&M University. He then worked for three years for Congressman Olin E. "Tiger" Teague, who was the most highly decorated World War II veteran in Congress and was known for 32 years as "Mr. Veteran" in Congress. At the age of 26, Edwards was encouraged by Congressman Teague to become his successor in 1978. Congressman Edwards narrowly lost in the Democratic primary to Phil Gramm, but then went on to earn an MBA from the Harvard Business School. In the 1980's, Congressman Edwards worked at the Trammell Crow Company in commercial real estate. Additionally, he owned and was the president of Edwards Communications, a rural radio station in South Texas. From 1983 to 1989, Edwards served in the Texas Senate. As a Member of the Senate Education Committee, he played an active role in reducing class sizes in Texas' public schools and was named one of Ten Best Legislators by Texas Monthly magazine. Edwards was first elected to the United States Congress in 1990. He served as a member on the House Budget Committee, the Appropriations Committee, and the Financial Services Appropriations Subcommittee, and as vice chair of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. He also co-chaired the House Army Caucus. Congressman Edwards was known as a national champion for America's veterans, troops, and their families. After becoming Chairman of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee in 2007, Congressman Edwards authored a historic $17.7 billion increase in funding for veterans health care and benefits, the largest increase in veterans funding in the history of the Veterans Administration. Chairman Edwards also played a key role in enacting the 21st Century GI Bill of Rights into law, covering the full cost of a college education for our troops. In 2008, both the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars recognized Congressman Edwards' leadership with their national awards given to only one member of Congress. When he represented Fort Hood, the world's largest Army base, Congressman Edwards played a major leadership role in support of the U.S. Army, troops, and military families. In 2007, he received the Marix Congressional Achievement Award from the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) in recognition of his work. In 2006, Congressman Edwards was honored with the Award of Merit, the highest award given by the Military Coalition, which represents 36 military and veteran groups. In 2003, the Association of the U.S. Army gave Congressman Edwards its "Legislator of the Year Award." He was co-chair of the House Army Caucus for over a decade and served on the House Armed Services and Veterans Affairs Committees for six years before joining the Appropriations Committee. Early in his congressional career, Congressman Edwards became known as a leader in the fight against nuclear terrorism, and in 2001, strongly opposed cuts of $100 million to the nuclear non-proliferation budget proposed by the Bush Administration. Serving as a member on the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, Edwards helped to oversee key homeland defense and university research programs to protect Americans from the threat of nuclear terrorism. To ensure that more cargo coming into U.S. seaports was properly inspected, Edwards supported the implementation of the recommendations of the 9/11 Commission and, in 2003, helped secure $84 million to install radiological detectors at the busiest foreign ports so nuclear materials could be detected overseas before reaching America. During his 20-year tenure in Congress, including 12 years of seniority on the powerful Appropriations Committee, Congressman Edwards developed a reputation of working hard and effectively for his Central Texas constituents. This reputation was the result of his commitment to protecting jobs and the local economy by making vital federal investments in key education, health, transportation, and water programs in his District. Securing important federal investments for Fort Hood, the Central Texas Veterans' Health Care System, and university research programs at Baylor and Texas A&M Universities was also a primary focus of Congressman Edwards' work in Washington. Edwards is known as a fiscal conservative who believes massive federal deficits and the multi-trillion national debt are harmful to our economy and morally wrong to pass on to our children and grandchildren. The non-partisan Concord Coalition gave him its "Deficit Hawk" Award. His pro-economic, pro-agriculture record also earned him endorsements from both the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Farm Bureau Friends of Agriculture Fund (AGFUND). The U.S. Chamber of Commerce gave him their "Spirit of Enterprise" Award for several years for his support of business. As a strong supporter of Second Amendment rights, Congressman Edwards voted with the NRA 100% on gun rights issues for many years and received the NRA's endorsement. As a respected voice on issues facing working families, Edwards pushed for increased access to health care for children of working families under the State Children's Health Insurance Program (S-CHIP), supported middle class tax cuts, and protected Medicare and Social Security benefits for America's seniors. As a lifelong person of faith, Chet was honored by the Baptist Joint Committee, and earned the Walter Cronkite Award from the Interfaith Alliance for his principled stand to keep government regulations out of churches and houses of worship. Congressman Edwards also received the T.B. Maston Christian Ethics Award. In 2008, Congressman Edwards was vetted and became a finalist to become former Senator Barack Obama's vice presidential running mate. Since leaving Congress in 2011, Edwards was appointed the W. R. Poage Distinguished Chair of Public Service at Baylor University. He established Edwards, Davis Stover & Associates, LLC with his former chief of staff, Lindsey Davis Stover, and continues to be involved with veterans issues in the Washington, D.C. area through his work on the boards of the Military Child Education Coalition and the Arlington National Cemetery Advisory Commission.
Administrative materials capture many of Edwards’ day-to-day activities and interactions with his constituents between 1990 and 2006. This includes flag and tour requests and a wide variety of invitations to events both within and outside of his district. Also of note are phone logs and financial records of franked mail. Schedules meticulously outline Edwards’ daily and weekly meetings, and also detail the schedules of the Committee on Armed Forces (1991-1994) and the Committee of Veteran’s Affairs (1991-1994), of which Edwards was a member.
In 1993 February, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms (BATF), and the Federal Bureau of Investigations laid siege to the Branch Davidian compound approximately ten miles from Waco, Texas, where members had been stockpiling assault weapons under the orders of their leader, David Koresh. The confrontation began when BATF agents serving a warrant were ambushed by Branch Davidians. Four BATF and six Branch Davidians lost their lives in the initial skirmish, and the resulting siege lasted for 51 days. The siege concluded when a fire inside the Mt. Carmel compound killed 76 more Branch Davidians, 1993 April 19th. Blame for the incident is still heavily disputed. The collection includes transcripts, statements, related articles, background information on the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco & Firearms, and a letter regarding social worker Joyce Sparks’ involvement.
Materials include a copy of a response by Congressman Edwards to remarks made by Congressman Ron Paul regarding the federal government’s role in the tragedy. A request from the city of Waco encouraging members of the government to disassociate the siege from the city in the press and a chronology of the tragic events are also included.
The Briefing Books series includes the material that Edwards’ staff compiled for him in preparation for meetings or events. Information included in these briefing books varied depending on the event. Time schedules, maps of the local area, and biographical sketches of the people Edwards came in contact with make up the content of many of these briefing books. Some briefing books were compiled as a reference guide for a specific topic or issue. For example, the briefing book on agriculture includes information on country of origin labeling (COOL), mad cow disease, and the estate tax — all pressing issues for the agriculture community in Edwards' district. The material in this series ranges in date from the year 2000 to 2006.
The Campaign Series includes material dealing with Edwards’ congressional campaigns from 1996 to 2008. Albeit small, this series includes congratulation letters from constituents and colleagues as well as invitations, correspondence, schedules, and other material on the Democratic National Conventions. The bulk of the material included in this series are questionnaires. These questionnaires are lists of various questions for which Edwards and his campaign team had prepared answers. These questions varied in topic from defense of traditional marriage and illegal immigration, to reasons for running for office, priorities, and previous accomplishments.
The Clinton Impeachment proceedings in the U.S. House of Representatives began during the second session of the 105th Congress in response to alleged criminal misconduct by President William Jefferson Clinton. The House proceedings finished in 1998 December, and the Senate proceedings began 1999 January. Of the impeachment proceedings, Congressman Edwards stated: “Bill Clinton’s crime was poor judgment and immoral acts, not bribery, not treason, not high crimes and misdemeanors as the founding fathers demanded” and believed “Congress should concentrate on issues important to American families. The pressing issue is not impeachment, but saving Social Security, improving education, and providing health care reform”. Material includes Correspondence, Democratic Party, Press, Proceedings, and Research on the topics of impeachment, censure, and the constitution.
From 1991-2005, Edwards represented Texas’ 11th Congressional District. Located in central Texas, this district ranged from San Saba County in the west to McLennan County in the east and from Bosque County in the north to the counties of Williamson and Milam in the south. In 2003, the state of Texas realigned its congressional districts, a source of much controversy and tension between Democrats and Republicans. As a result of the changes, Edwards now represented the 17th Congressional District, from 2005-2010. Edwards’ new district essentially carved out the western counties of the old 11th and expanded to the southeast. College Station, home of his alma mater, Texas A&M University, was now included in his constituency. Materials in this series relate to local happenings within his district and are arranged alphabetically by geographic location, such as by city or county. Topics include Town Halls, Ft. Hood, and Military Awards. Materials on Baylor University, Central Texas College, Hill College, and Texas A&M University are also found.
Legislative materials reflect Edwards’ work in the United States House of Representatives and are arranged by congress beginning with the 102nd Congress (1991-1992) through the 111th Congress (2009-2010). Within each Congress, files are alphabetical by topic. Major topics include Appropriations, Veterans, Armed Forces, Agriculture, and Budget.
The 102nd Congress marked Edwards’ first term in the House. His earlier experiences working for Congressman Olin “Tiger” Teague as a legislative aide heavily influenced Edwards’ objectives as a freshman in Congress. Edwards requested to be on the Armed Services Committee and Veterans’ Affairs Committee, reflecting his strong interest in caring for the veterans of his district, following Teague’s passionate advocacy for veterans. During the 102nd Congress, Edwards supported the Balanced Budget Amendment and the military operations against Saddam Hussein. Other topics include efforts to regulate the cable industry and to support funding for a Super Collider project.
The 103rd Congress materials are noticeably more extensive than those from Edwards’ first term. The Appropriations related materials from this congress are mainly correspondence to Edwards from colleagues, thanking him for his support on a variety of issues, including defense appropriations, emergency appropriations to help Los Angeles after an earthquake, and the Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere Program. Among the materials reflecting his concerns for veterans and soldiers are documents describing his role in the dedication of the Thomas T. Connally Department of Veterans’ Affairs Medical Center (1993) in Marlin, TX, as well as his cosponsoring of a bill expanding healthcare benefits for veterans of the Persian Gulf War. Edwards also supported various education programs to expand education opportunities for students.
Many materials from the 104th Congress relate to appropriations and education. A number of documents debate cutting federal funding for the arts. In regards to education, Edwards actively supported the Impact Aid program, which seeks to provide federal funds to schools adversely affected by federal activities. Edwards also sponsored a bill to reform the Veterans Affairs system to make out-patient care more accessible.
During the 105th Congress, Edwards served on the Appropriations Committee, which is reflected in the volume of appropriations related material present. Topics include rural development in agriculture, a needle exchange program in the District of Columbia, the timber industry in national forests, and requests, supported by Edwards for medical research funding. Edwards also supported funding the Army’s M1 Abrams tank upgrade program and made efforts to verify that the Army was awarding contracts according to Department of Labor standards. Edwards also worked to improve education, supporting the High Hopes 21st Century Scholarship initiative and continuing his labors in the Impact Aid federal funding program. In regards to health services, Edwards was a strong supporter of Title X, the federal family planning program, and argued against an amendment that would have required teens to obtain parental consent before obtaining contraceptives.
During the 106th Congress, Edwards participated in debates on abortion laws and introduced a bill called the “Banning Late Term Abortions Act” that sought to make late term abortions illegal, except in cases where the mother’s health or life were at risk. For appropriations, materials on funding for the Department of Defense, Postal Services, and Military Construction are found. In education, Edwards signed a letter to the Secretary of Education supporting the Partnership for Texas Public Schools, which was seeking funding under the Teacher Quality Enhancement Grant program for teacher training and reforming Texas education; the Partnership’s application was approved and received funding. Numerous materials on legislation for Medicaid and prescription drugs are also in this subseries, as are materials regarding funding for airports in Texas and other requests from the Texas Department of Transportation.
While serving in the 107th Congress, Edwards supported President Bush in promoting national security in response to the September 11th terrorist attacks; he also cosponsored the Bioterrorism Protection Act of 2001, which sought to protect water and food supplies, strengthen the nation’s intelligence gathering, and equip communities to respond to bioterrorism. Additionally, he worked to increase pay for the military, promote higher education by raising Pell Grant limits, and fund transportation needs in Texas.
During the 108th Congress, Edwards was a co-chair on the bipartisan Army Caucus, which organized briefing meetings with Army officials on the status of various military programs. He also criticized budget cuts to military construction projects amounting to $1.5 billion. Edwards continued to advocate on behalf of veterans by working to keep the Waco VA Medical Center open and authored an act to create a new State Veterans Cemetery in Killeen. For his work on behalf of the Army, Edwards was named Outstanding Legislator of the Year.
In the 109th Congress, Edwards signed a letter requesting greater federal assistance to alleviate the burdens of the ranchers and farmers, who were suffering from severe droughts and fires throughout Texas and Oklahoma. Also of note is a bill drafted by Edwards to prohibit the sales and rentals of adult rated video games to minors. In regards to veterans, Edwards opposed efforts that would have forced TRICARE beneficiaries to rely strictly on mail order prescriptions, leaving local pharmacies inaccessible. Edwards also labored to include the Waco Mammoth Site into the National Park System.
During the 110th Congress, Edwards wrote numerous letters to the leaders of the House Appropriations Committee requesting funding for a variety of projects, including the study of antiviral agents at Texas A&M University, a program to assist at-risk students in Waco prepare for college, and the construction of a new hospital wing in Clifton, TX. Edwards also continued to work to improve veterans’ benefits. Because of Edwards and others, the 110th Congress passed the largest increases in veterans’ benefits and health care in United States history, including a new G.I. bill, which doubled college education benefits. Also of note is the Invest in Energy Independence Act, supported by Edwards, which sought to increase energy research funding and help reduce oil costs for consumers.
The 111th Congress was Edwards’ last term in office. During this term, Edwards introduced the Military Children’s School Investment Act, which sought to enable grants for building and improving public schools. He also introduced the Central Texas Water Recycling Act of 2009, which sought to authorize the Secretary of Interior to participate in the planning of water reclamation projects in Central Texas, though Federal funding was limited to 25% of the total cost. Many of the materials from this congress are letters addressed to Edwards, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, thanking him for his support or informing of different projects.
All press-related files generated by Edwards’ office are organized into by type: Columns, Mailers, News Releases, Newsletters, and Radio Calls. Materials are categorized as general for their broad scope and organized chronologically. Newsletters contains documents addressed to Edwards’ constituents and are organized by topic. These letters deal with issues relevant to the congressman’s district.
Religious liberty documents are arranged alphabetically by topic. Each topic represents a major religious liberty and church-state debate during Edwards’ time in office, some spanning several years. Indeed, Edwards worked diligently to prevent government policies and funding from violating religious freedoms, as prescribed in the First Amendment. He believed strongly in keeping religious and government entities separate. In his own words, he believed that “the best way to ruin religion is to politicize it.” Important topics from his tenure include Charitable Choice legislation, the Religious Freedom Amendment (RFA), the Religious Liberty Protection Act (RLPA), and the Ten Commandments on public property. Below are more detailed descriptions of these materials.
Charitable Choice materials contain essentially anything pertaining to the government funding of social programs operated by religious groups. Of all the religious liberty materials, the Charitable Choice subseries is perhaps the most complex because Charitable Choice provisions were found in a several pieces of legislation, though the Community Solutions Act of 2001 (H.R. 7) was one of the most prominent. Other related pieces of legislation include the American Community Renewal Act, the Fathers Count Act, and the Charitable Choice Expansion Act. The Job Improvement Training Act is also included here because it raised questions about federally funded job hiring discrimination via religious groups. Early documents date from 1995, but most of the material is from the late 1990s and early 2000s when Governor and later President George W. Bush advocated strongly for faith-based social programs. Supporters of the Charitable Choice provisions hoped to provide federal funds for religious social work programs to help administer addiction recovery and poverty relief, without compromising the integrity of the religious organization’s mission. Opponents, including Edwards, the Baptist Joint Committee, etc., argued that the provisions would allow religious organizations to discriminate in hiring for federally funded positions; they also feared that the faith-based initiatives would allow the religious organizations, in effect, to use federal funds to proselytize to their clients. Correspondence contains letters to and from colleagues, constituents, organizations, churches, etc. pertaining to Charitable Choice. The General and Talking Points folders encompass a variety of notes and documents that provide general information about Charitable Choice, including points and information that explicitly supports or opposes the legislation, such as President Bush’s “Rallying the Armies of Compassion.” Also of note are the Speeches and Statements, many of which were authored and delivered by Edwards and fellow Congressmen on the House floor.
A few important court cases regarding the relationship of government and religion are in this subseries. Perhaps the most influential was the Supreme Court ruling for the Locke vs. Davey case.
These documents pertain primarily to H. Con. Res. 94 (1999), which, in light of recent violent events across the country, sought to unite Americans in a day of prayer and fasting to ask “God to send spiritual strength and a renewed sense of humility to the Nation.” Edwards adamantly opposed the resolution, particularly because it identified prayer as a “necessary duty” for individuals. Edwards argued that Congress had no right to tell citizens how or what to pray for. Documentation includes correspondence, legislation drafts and general material of the resolution, speeches and statements, results of the vote, and clippings about the resolution.
Closely related to the debates about prayer in schools are the debates surrounding prayer at high school football games and other sporting events. In 1999, H. Con. Res. 199 was introduced to the House and sought to uphold prayers at public school sporting events as constitutional. Some opposed to the resolution affirmed their support for prayers in any venue, unless the prayers were sponsored by the state. Edwards argued, in particular, that the resolution was irrelevant because Congress had no power to decide the constitutionality of legislation since that power rested with the Supreme Court. The Correspondence, General, and Talking Points materials reveal the nuances of both sides of the argument. Also of note is the Supreme Court case Santa Fe ISD vs. Doe (2000) wherein the Supreme Court ruled, in essence, that the pre-game prayers violated the First Amendment. The Supreme Court syllabus of the case is found in this series. Speeches and statements made by Edwards and others on the issue are also found.
This is the largest subseries in Edwards’ Religious Liberty papers. Most of the documentation refers to the Religious Freedom Amendment (RFA)/Istook Amendment, which was debated heavily in the late 1990s. The Religious Speech Amendment and the Religious Equality Amendment were other versions of the RFA and appeared in years before or after the RFA debate. All versions are compiled together. After the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) was declared unconstitutional following the City of Boerne vs. Flores case, Ernest Istook (R-OK) hoped, in part, to restore the RFRA’s protections by means of a constitutional amendment. RFA’s language essentially sought to protect citizens’ religious expressions in public settings, especially in schools. It stipulated that the government could neither restrict nor encourage prayers in school. Istook received support from many religious conservatives and religious groups, notably the Christian Coalition. Edwards, on the other hand, headed the efforts to defeat the Istook Amendment. He and the opposition argued that the amendment left too many questions unanswered, such as: Who would decide which prayers would be allowed? What about students who did not want to participate in school prayers? Do we really want satanic or pagan prayers in school, too? They also argued that students could already pray in school, as long as it was not disruptive, which meant the amendment was an extreme response to a nonexistent problem. The amendment was defeated because it failed to obtain the 2/3 vote necessary, but nevertheless received a majority of House votes. The Baylor University (Dr. Derek Davis) folder contains correspondence and materials by Dr. Davis, the director of Baylor’s J.M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies. He was also the editor of the Journal of Church and State. Case examples include specific instances of religious liberty violations as reported by both sides of the amendment debate and how they either supported or opposed the need for the amendment. Correspondence is divided into three categories: All letters to and from fellow congressmen; letters received and sent to any non-congressional figure or organization; and “thank you” letters to Edwards for his work against the amendment. Legislation contains different versions of the legislation and proposed amendments, while General contains materials that provide overview information about RFA and whether or not it would have desirable results. Religious Liberty Working Group addresses the team assembled by Edwards to construct and enact a strategy to defeat the Istook Amendment. Testimonies and statements feature many floor speeches and other statements by Edwards and Istook, as well as statements from a variety of religious and non-religious organizations.
Edwards cosponsored the Religious Liberty Protection Act (RLPA), which was an effort to restore religious protections from government interference after the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) was declared unconstitutional. Particularly, RLPA hoped to protect religious practice from land use regulations that precluded religions from constructing houses of worship or assembling for worship, as well as from government employment requirements, such as taking a loyalty oath or shaving one’s beard, that conflicted with religious beliefs. RLPA received broad congressional support and the support of many churches and organizations, secular and religious, such as the Baptist Joint Committee, the Episcopal Church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the American Jewish Congress, People for the American Way, etc. Opponents of RLPA, such as the Human Rights Campaign and the ACLU, argued that it would enable discrimination based on religious tenets. To address these civil rights concerns, Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) offered an amendment that would have allowed only small landlords, religious institutions, and small business owners to claim religious exemptions in hiring and business transactions. The Nadler Amendment did not pass. Other opponents, such as the Home School Legal Defense Association, believed RLPA would fail constitutionality tests and that it would unduly expand federal power into religion and citizens’ lives. RLPA passed the House vote 306-118. Baylor University (Dr. Derek Davis) includes correspondence and writings of Dr. Davis, the director of Baylor’s J.M. Dawson Institute of Church-State Studies. He was also the editor of the Journal of Church and State. Correspondence is divided into letters expressing either support or opposition to RLPA. Nadler Amendment folders contain material specifically related to the debate surrounding the proposed Nadler Amendment to RLPA. General and Talking Points materials include broader information about the bill, as well as simplified argument points made in favor or against the legislation. Testimonies and Statements feature statements by Edwards, as well as many statements by organizations and religious representatives before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution.
Edwards was frequently involved in debates surrounding the legality of posting the Ten Commandments on public property, especially in schools and court houses. He opposed the practice because he did not believe public spaces should sponsor the tenets of one faith over others; furthermore, he argued that religious principles are best learned at home, not in government buildings. On the other hand, proponents of posting the Ten Commandments argued that posting them would be one of several steps to encourage morality and curb violent behavior, particularly in schools. Additionally, they referred to polls that suggested Americans supported displaying the Ten Commandments in public buildings. These materials include correspondence expressing support or opposition to posting the Ten Commandments. Of note is a letter from Roy S. Moore, a former Chief Justice in Alabama who sparked controversy when he refused to remove a Ten Commandments monument from his court room; in the letter to Edwards, Moore offered to donate the monument to the Capitol for display. Other materials include drafts of congressional acts regarding the Ten Commandments, talking points, and speeches made by Edwards and others.
In the late 1990s, an intense debate emerged regarding the Army’s allowance of Wiccans to openly practice their religion (witchcraft) at Fort Hood, which was located in Edwards’ congressional district. Opponents were concerned that the Army had sanctioned the practice of witchcraft and believed that the Army had no legal responsibility to do so. Edwards, on the other hand, argued that, even though he and many others may disagree with the tenets of witchcraft, the Wiccans still had the constitutional right to practice their religion. Correspondence includes letters from Wicca leaders to Representative Bob Barr, a primary critic of Wicca, as well as letters from Barr to Edwards and military officers expressing his concerns about witchcraft. Also of note are materials containing the military’s policies about religious practice and statements made by Edwards in defense of the Wiccans.
Speeches range in date from 1989 to 2009, reflecting Edwards’ service in the U.S. House of Representatives and part of his tenure in the Texas Senate. The collection amounts to five linear feet of material and is arranged topically and chronologically. Topics include: Banquet, Campaign, Commencement, Dedication/Anniversary, Fundraiser, House of Representatives, Impeachment, Luncheon, Meeting, Statements, Texas A&M, and Veterans. Material includes background information for speeches, handwritten notes, and printed text.
Voting Records include scorecards and data regarding Edwards’ votes compiled by various special interest groups, the Democratic Party, and his own office. These documents are organized chronologically by congress. They include scorecards from organizations such as the Children’s Defense Fund, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the American Civil Liberties Union.
The Audio-Visual Materials of the Chet Edwards collection include images, audio, and video recordings from 1990 to 2010. This material includes television and radio campaign ads, recorded speeches, press reports, and other miscellaneous recordings. The Audio-Visual Materials are divided into seven sections and total 17 linear feet. Material with in each section are organized by data format and includes computer diskettes, video tape reels, audio cassettes, Digital Audio Tapes, VHS tapes, Beta tapes, CDs, and DVDs. Some of the Audio-Visual Material can only be found on the Baylor Digital Collections website in the Poage Legislative Library section. This material is listed under “digital” in the box list.
The campaign series consists of material recorded from 1990 to 2010 (elections from the 102nd to the 111th Congress). The majority of the material includes radio and television spot ads for Chet Edwards by the Democratic media strategist Joe Slade White. Other material includes news recordings on the Edwards’ campaigns, debates, and audio bites for the campaign websites. Also included is material related to Ramsey Farley, Edwards’ opponent in the 2000 and 2002 elections.
The Events subseries consists of images and videos of various events Edwards attended during his time in office. The dates of this section range from 1995 to 2010 and include charity events, Congressional Delegation visits to military bases, ceremonies, forums, and conferences. Events related specifically to the military can be found in the Topical subseries (VI) under “military.” The Local and National Coverage subseries is divided into four sub-subseries: C-SPAN, Press Releases & Forums, News Media, and Television Programs. The C-SPAN files include recordings of floor speeches, debates, and discussions. The Press Releases & Forums files include a recorded forum in Washington from 1991 and news releases and press advisories from 2001 to 2002. The News Media files include various recordings of local and national news dealing with Edwards, his opponents, or projects he was working on while in office. The Television Programs files include documentaries and political shows in which Edwards made an appearance.
The Miscellaneous subseries consists of material that is either unidentifiable or does not fit within any specific subseries. Examples of the material in this section are a Season’s Greetings tape from Edwards and his family, a video tour of the U. S. Capitol, digital copies of portraits of Edwards, and three unlabeled magnetic tape reels.
The Organizations subseries is divided into three sub-subseries for three different organizations: Committee for Citizen Awareness, Council for America’s First Freedom, and National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). The material in this subseries includes recordings of award presentations, public service announcements, and informational videos on the U. S. Government.
The Topical subseries is divided into five sub-subseries: Branch Davidians, Census, Military, Veterans Affairs, and Vice Presidential Candidate. The Branch Davidians files include three interviews with Edwards on the Branch Davidians in April of 1993 as well as a half-hour video on the siege of the Branch Davidian compound. The Census files include public service announcements for the Census 2000. The Military files include recordings of military events, tours, and Department of Defense Press Briefings on the Family Housing Project. The Veterans Affairs files include material dealing with the Veterans Affairs budget shortfalls and Edwards projects dealing specifically with veterans. The Vice Presidential Candidate files include two interviews with Edwards about his possible selection as the Vice Presidential candidate for Barack Obama.
The U.S. House of Representatives subseries is divided into three sub-subseries: General, Budget, and Rep. Edwards’ Office. The General files include recorded statements, announcements, interviews, floor votes, and other related materials by Chet Edwards during his time in office. Some of the recorded material in this section corresponds with material in the Local and National Coverage series. The Budget filess includes material dealing with budget committees and appropriations. Material dealing with the Veterans Affairs budget can be found in the Topical subseries in the Veterans Affairs sub-subseries. The Rep. Edwards’ Office files include press statements, press files, press clips, form letters, photographs, video clips, and other material related to Edwards’ office and staff.
Clippings includes newspaper articles related to Edwards from the Waco Tribune Herald. These clippings include the “Chet Edwards Reports” column, letters to the editor praising or criticizing Edwards, and articles mentioning Edwards’ policies or activities. Additional subseries are Persons, which contains articles about specific persons and Topical, which holds articles about special interests.
The Correspondence series is arranged into Members and VIPs is arranged alphabetically by date, and contains correspondence from members of the U.S. House of Representatives and other important persons.
This series contains copies of the documents Edwards provided Barack Obama’s Vice-Presidential Vetting Committee in 2008. The papers included the answers to 102 questions related to Edwards, his family, finances, business interests, election filings, legislative proposals, press conferences and releases, and voting record, with supporting documentation. This series also contains Edwards’s notes and memos, information on the vetting committee members, his stance on multiple issues, and strategies that could be used if he were selected. A small number of pages have redactions of social security numbers and the names of others to protect their privacy.
Byron M. Tunnell was born on October 14, 1925, in Tyler, Texas. He was educated in the Tyler public school system and attended Tyler Junior College. Following military service in the Naval Air Corps during World War II, Tunnell attended Baylor University where he earned a law degree in 1952.
Tunnell then returned to his hometown of Tyler and served as an assistant district attorney before entering private practice. In 1959, Bob Bullock, future Texas Comptroller and Lieutenant Governor, joined the practice. Tunnell and Bullock developed a close friendship over the next forty years, sharing a passion for public service to their native Texas. When Bullock passed away in 1999, Tunnell delivered one of two eulogies at the funeral. Tunnell was active with the Junior Chamber of Commerce (Jaycee’s) and by the 1950's turned his attention toward politics. He was elected to serve in the Texas House of Representatives from 1956 to 1965 and was appointed Speaker of the House from 1963 to 1965 by his peers. A second term as Speaker was projected, but to the surprise of many, Tunnell joined the Texas Railroad Commission in 1965. His tenure with the Railroad Commission coincided with the energy crisis of the early 1970's which led to his collaboration with the Interstate Oil Compact Commission. On September 15, 1973, Tunnell resigned from the Railroad Commission to become a vice-president and lobbyist for Tenneco Inc., an oil and gas company based in Houston. In the 1990's, Tunnell returned to public service, first as a member of the Board of Trustees for the Employee Retirement System of Texas, and then as a member of the State Conservatorship Board. He was appointed by George W. Bush as a co-conservator to overhaul the struggling Texas Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse. Tunnell died of cancer at his home in Lake Palestine, Texas, on March 7, 2000.
In addition to serving as a legislator and lobbyist, Byron Tunnell was appointed to several positions. He served on the Board of Trustees for the Employee Retirement System and on the State Conservatorship Board as co-conservator of the Texas Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse. This series, dated 1991-1998, includes reports, commissions, funding manuals, newsletters, clippings, resignations, and other materials. Each subseries is organized chronologically and are in good condition.
Series 2. Campaigns, dated 1958-1973, documents Byron Tunnell’s political campaigns for public office including the Texas House of Representatives and the Texas Railroad Commission. Materials include correspondence, brochures, newspaper clippings, administrative documents, and advertisements. This series is arranged chronologically by year and is in good condition.
Series 3. Correspondence includes personal and topical letters that were received by Byron Tunnell from 1961 to 1995. Several entries are included from Bob Bullock who was a business partner and close friend. The series is arranged alphabetically and is in good condition.
Series 4. Court Cases, which consists of materials from 1952 to 1994, includes documents related to Byron Tunnell’s legal practice. Materials such as court documents, contracts, newspaper clippings, and correspondence from his Supreme Court appearance in Hawkins v. United States is present as well as items from the Alfaro and George Green cases. This series is arranged chronologically and is in good condition.
Byron Tunnell served in the Texas House of Representatives from 1957 to 1965, and on the Texas Railroad Commission from 1965 to 1973. Both positions are documented in Series 5. Elected Positions. The Texas House of Representatives Subseries is further divided by the appropriate legislature. Representative Tunnell served during the 55th, 56th, 57th, and 58th State Legislatures and was elected Speaker of the House for his final term. Administrative files, correspondence, commemorative legislation, publications, and topical materials on subjects such as apportionment of state legislatures, PKU, education, and finances are included within the subseries. Items related to Tunnell's time as Speaker of the House are also present. The Railroad Commission Subseries is divided into two sub-subseries: General and Interstate Oil Compact Commission. The General Sub-subseries includes annual reports, correspondence, newsletters, and topical materials primarily concerning oil and gas. The Interstate Oil Compact Commission Sub-subseries contains meeting minutes, correspondence, and items related to several committees including Energy Resources, Environmental Affairs, and Environmental Protection Advisory Committees as well as the Resolutions Subcommittee. Each subseries is organized alphabetically and in good condition.
Series 6. Events documents Byron Tunnell's event attendance from 1943 to 1997. The series is divided into three subseries: General, Conferences and Conventions, and Texas Inaugurations. The General Subseries includes printed materials, invitations, and other items related to banquets, receptions, luncheons, and reunions. The Conferences and Conventions Subseries consists primarily of travel itineraries, work materials, and personal memorabilia from events such as the National Legislative Conference and the Democratic National Convention where Tunnell served as a Texas delegate.
The Texas Inaugurations Subseries houses invitations, programs, and other documents pertaining to Texas inaugural ceremonies. Each subseries is arranged chronologically and is in good condition.
Byron Tunnell resigned his post as Railroad Commissioner of Texas on September 15, 1973, and was appointed vice-president and lobbyist for Tenneco, Inc., an oil and gas company based in Houston, Texas. Materials found in Series 7. Lobbyist, ranging in date from 1975 to 1987, include schedules, notes, newsletters, and presentation slides from Tunnell's work during this time. The folders in this series are arranged in alphabetical order and are in good condition.
The Personal Series is divided into three subseries: General, Awards and Certificates, and Travel. The General Subseries includes political cartoons, guestbooks, day planners, official license plates, and items related to the Jaycees and other personal and business interests. The Awards and Certificates Subseries contains plaques and certificates given to Tunnell by organizations he visited while in office, election certificates from the Texas House and Railroad Commission, the Jaycees, and other civic organizations, as well as commemorative flags flown over the state capitol. The Travel Subseries documents Tunnell’s travel as part of his jobs as well as personal business. Family vacations are mostly documented with itineraries, research material, and small mementos. Each subseries is organized chronologically and is in good condition.
Series 9. Photographs, dated 1925-1999, documents the many facets of Byron Tunnell's life. This series is divided into four subseries: General, Events, Family, and Hunting and Fishing. The General Subseries consists of campaign headshots, group photographs, golf outings, and material from the House floor. The Events Subseries houses items related to Tunnell’s time in office, golf tournaments, travel, meetings, and dedications. The Family Subseries includes family portraits, wedding photos, and Christmas photos. The Hunting and Fishing Subseries follows roughly thirty years of trips Tunnell took with family and friends, including Bob Bullock. Each subseries is in chronological order and in good condition.
Series 10. Press contains materials from 1953 to 1994, and is divided into two subseries: News Clippings and Newsletters. Most of the news clippings highlight the work Tunnell did as a member of the Jaycees, when he was serving as a Representative and Railroad Commissioner. Articles related to Bob Bullock are also prominent in the subseries. The newsletters relate primarily to Tunnell's contributions to the Employee Retirement System Board. Both subseries are arranged chronologically and are in good condition.
Series 11. Speeches, dated 1961-1999, was organized and indexed by Byron Tunnell. Contents include legislative addresses, speeches given to the Jaycees and other civic organizations, and several regarding the oil and gas industry. Others include workshop speeches, retirement affairs, and eulogies. The final speech is the eulogy Tunnell prepared for his long-time friend, Bob Bullock. The series is in chronological order and is in good condition.
Clark Wallace Thompson III was born on August 6, 1896 in La Crosse, Wisconsin to Clark Wallace Thompson and Jessie Marilla (Hyde) Thompson. Five years later, his family moved to Oregon where Thompson spent the remainder of his childhood and adolescence. He attended the University of Oregon at Eugene where he was a member of Phi Delta Theta, an international social fraternity. In 1917, Thompson enlisted in the United States Marine Corps (USMC) and served for the duration of America's involvement in World War I. Following the war, he remained a member of the Marine Corps Reserves and in 1936 organized the Fifteenth Battalion of the USMC Reserves. His decades-long involvement in the military and his passion for national defense heavily influenced his political career. In 1918, Clark Thompson married Libbie Moody, the daughter of William L. Moody, Jr. and Libbie Rice Shearn of Galveston, Texas. The Moody family had been long-established in Galveston society and business where the newlyweds soon settled. The Thompsons had two children, Clark and Libbie. Thompson served as the treasurer of the American National Insurance Company and left to start his own mercantile firm which he owned until 1932. He was also secretary-treasurer of the Cedar Lawn Development Company until 1934. In 1933, Clark Thompson was elected to the House of Representatives from the 7th district of Texas to fill the vacancy left by the death of Representative Clay Stone Briggs. He served as a Democrat until 1935. With the outbreak of World War II, Thompson was once again called upon to serve his country and was ultimately sent to the southwestern Pacific theater where he was the oldest officer in his unit. In 1943, he returned to the United States and became the Director of the Marine Corps Reserves. He held this position for three years until his retirement as a colonel in 1946. For his service, Thompson was awarded the Legion of Merit. From 1947 to 1966, Thompson returned to politics and represented the 9th district of Texas after significant redistricting. Throughout his political career, Thompson served on several different committees including Agriculture, Maritime and Fisheries, and Ways and Means. While living in Washington, D.C., Clark and Libbie Thompson were important members of the social scene in the 1950's and 1960's. Their house was often referred to as the “Texas Embassy” or the “Texas Legation.” Thompson was a lifelong member of the Episcopal Church as well as a member of the American Legion. He was also involved in the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Texas State Society, and was a thirty-second-degree Mason and Shriner. Clark Thompson passed away on December 16, 1981, in Galveston, Texas, and was buried in Galveston Memorial Park Cemetery.
The Administrations and Agencies series contains materials that pertain to subsets of the executive and legislative branches from the 1960's. This series focuses on documents related to government administrations like the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the Small Business Administration. The folders are arranged mainly in alphabetical order, and overall, the series is in good condition.
Series II. Committees contains materials related to legislative committees in the House of Representatives. Unsurprisingly, a significant portion of these committee materials pertain to Thompson’s service on the Agriculture, Maritime and Fisheries, and Ways and Means Committees, but information regarding other congressional committees is also present. The series is mainly in alphabetical order and is in good condition.
This series contains correspondence from Clark Thompson’s legislative office. These letters deal with various political topics, including healthcare, firearms, and Civil Rights legislation from 1959 to 1966. Letters of a more personal nature are also included in the series but are far less common. Most of the correspondence is comprised of Thompson’s replies to letters, but a few of the original letters to Thompson are present as well. The series is in good condition.
Series IV. Departments deals primarily with executive departments. While the Agriculture, HEW (Health, Education, and Welfare), and Post Office Departments comprise most of the material, each of President Lyndon Johnson’s departments - apart from Transportation - are represented here. The series is mostly in alphabetical order and is in good condition.
Series V. Legislative includes general files, bills, legislation, speeches, voting records, and news releases for most of Thompson’s congressional terms. These materials are arranged according to Congressional session. The bulk of these materials comes from Thompson’s service in the 87th, 88th, and 89th Congresses (the 1960's). There are several folders that contain information on the Panama Canal, one of Thompson’s legislative focal points. Materials from three decades - spanning the 1940's to the 1960's - relating to the administration of, proposed expansions to, and maintenance of the canal are present. Issues of the "Congressional Record" and various reports are arranged by topic, while folders containing bills, correspondence, and newspaper clippings are all arranged chronologically. The series is in good condition.
Series VI. Personal is moderately-sized and consists of three primary types of materials: administrative, correspondence, and campaign. The administrative materials contain alphabetical office records from the 1960's, Thompson’s final decade in office. Most of these records pertain to office equipment and personnel. The correspondence within this series is comprised primarily of invitations accepted by Clark Thompson from the late 1950's and early 1960's, highlighting the varied events attended by one of Washington’s most sought-after and well-connected socialites. At the time, the influence of Clark and his wife Libbie was such that their home was often referred to as the “Texas Embassy.” In addition to invitations, there are also wide-ranging conversations with constituents and informants from his congressional district that kept him abreast of important developments back home. The campaign materials recount Thompson’s first foray as a U.S. Representative in 1933 as well as his subsequent campaigns for political office from 1948 to 1964. These folders are arranged by date. The series also contains numerous folders on significant developments within the Democratic Party as well as national and Texan politics. The series is in good condition.
This short series focuses on Thompson's communications with the executive branch, other congressional districts, and the media. There are several folders of communications concerning fellow Texan and President Lyndon B. Johnson as well as visits by Thompson and his constituents to the White House. Additionally, there is a copy of the Voting Rights speech delivered by President Johnson to Congress - a measure that Thompson firmly opposed. There is also a short section of folders dealing with national and international correspondence. These materials focus on the issues of immigration from 1947 to 1963, as well as foreign affairs and communications from outside of Thompson’s district. Thompson’s mode of communication to his district developed and changed over time. The introduction of television is showcased in this series with invoices and scripts from Thompson’s appearances on screen (1961-1966). His use of the radio, however, goes back much earlier as his radio scripts demonstrate. As early as 1946, Thompson was actively using this medium to reach his constituents. Overall, the series is arranged topically, then alphabetically, and is in good condition.
This series is comprised of eight scrapbooks dated 1946-1964. The scrapbooks house clippings, photographs, and other memorabilia from Clark Thompson’s tenure in Congress. There is some significant overlap in the chronologies of the individual scrapbooks. Overall, the series is in good condition.
This extensive series contains a wide array of materials related to Thompson’s adoptive home state (Texas) and region (Galveston). There is a large selection of speeches and articles written by or about Thompson ranging from 1958 to 1966. These folders are followed by a voluminous collection of constituent correspondence. Arranged topically, this section highlights the range of requests and comments that Thompson received. The next segment of folders is arranged by the name of the city and county involved. These titles are further described with the topic of discussion.
Because Thompson represented a coastal region, many of the issues he dealt with addressed the usage and construction of local harbors as well as the consolidation and creation of several military installations in the area. This series also contains materials pertaining to four major topics and events that impacted Thompson's district: Hurricane Carla, the Public Water and Resources Department, rivers and harbors, and the Texas City Disaster. It is worth noting that each of these topics deals in some way with Thompson’s district’s proximity to the Gulf of Mexico and the opportunities or problems that closeness caused. Documents relating to Hurricane Carla chronicle Thompson’s response to the damage caused by the storm’s landfall in 1961. The southern part of his district had been particularly affected. The Public Water and Resources Department folders focus on the actions of the boards responsible for each of Texas’s prominent river basins that flow into the Gulf of Mexico. Materials about rivers and harbors are alphabetically arranged by topic and contain information on navigation and improvement projects from 1947 to 1962. Lastly, the Texas City Disaster folders contain correspondence, litigation, and legislation in the wake of the 1947 harbor explosion that claimed 581 lives from Thompson’s district. Overall, the series is arranged topically, then alphabetically, and is in good condition.
Ed Lee Gossett (1902-1990) represented Texas’s Thirteenth Congressional District from 1939 until his resignation in 1951. Although a Democrat himself, Gossett frequently opposed the policies of the New Deal wing of his own party. Gossett served as chairman for the Committee on Elections No.
2 and as member of the Immigration and Naturalization Committee. Later, as a member of the House Judiciary Committee, Gossett championed legislation restricting immigration quotas, securing state ownership of tidelands, and equalizing national railroad freight rates. He also worked with Senator Henry Cabot Lodge to introduce a constitutional amendment revising the Electoral College on a proportional system following the contentious election of Truman over Dewey in 1950. Gossett, born January 27, 1902, moved with his parents from his birthplace, a sawmill camp called Yellow Pine located near Many, Sabine Parish in Louisiana, to a farm near Henrietta in Clay County, Texas in 1908. He attended public schools and then graduated in 1924 with a Bachelor of Arts, and subsequently in 1927 with a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Texas at Austin. After acceptance to the Texas Bar Association in 1927, he practiced law in Vernon, Texas, and served as district attorney of the Forty-sixth Judicial district from 1933 to 1937. In 1937, he moved to Wichita Falls and in 1938, was elected to the Seventy-sixth Congress on the Democratic ticket defeating pro-New Dealer W. D.
McFarlane. Throughout his career Gossett demonstrated interest in restricting immigration. His efforts culminated in his national and publicly strident opposition, beginning in 1946 and ending only with his resignation, to the Truman administration’s efforts to increase immigration quotas for displaced persons. Gossett not only sought to oppose this increase, but introduced bills reducing existing immigration quotas by half. Beginning in 1948 and until 1951, Gossett found himself also opposing the Truman administration in the Texas Tidelands Controversy. In addition to his public opposition, Gossett worked within his committee to secure the passage of several bills, including his own, recognizing state ownership of tidelands. This activity included maneuvering all tidelands bills to his subcommittee and doing “most of the leg work.” Because of his significant legislative role in the controversy, Gossett also corresponded with Price Daniel about Texas’s case in the Supreme Court on the same issue in order to coordinate efforts on both fronts. In addition to these two prominent roles, Gossett worked on issues involving infrastructure, supply, and pricing in the oil industry, and on the equalization of national railroad freight rates to the Official Zone both during and following World War II. Furthermore, he took an interest in and publicly spoke on two significant events in the post-war worldDLCommunism and the partition of Palestine. In July 1951, Gossett resigned his congressional office and resumed private practice as the general attorney for the Texas Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., and also served as Judge of Criminal District Court in Dallas, Texas. Gossett died on November 6, 1990.
Along with materials such as maps, newsletters, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, and speeches by Gossett and others, this series contains a 1940 brief on the Brazos River Conservation; some pamphlets and letters on the electoral college; and pamphlets, letters, and speeches on US labor laws.
This series contains letters and publications which illustrate early reactions of some Americans to spreading Communism and the nascent Cold War. The materials contain accusations of Jewish involvement in spreading Communism and also denunciations against American officials for weak actions against Communism at home and abroad in the form of periodicals, pamphlets, open letters, and articles.
This series relates to Gossett's activities towards immigration. Much of the material consists of correspondence to Gossett, especially after his 1946 public opposition to Truman, and provides insight into trends in American thought toward displaced persons, as well as Gossett's own views on displaced persons. While the majority of Gossett’s attention was directed toward displaced persons from Europe, his activities on the House Immigration and Naturalization Committee and later subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee included other immigration issues such as Chinese immigration and merchant marine seaman naturalization during World War II. Publications dealing with these issues are located in the "General" subseries, while correspondence on specific cases/individuals is located in the subseries dedicated to Gossett’s committee activities. Some correspondence and publications dealt with the influx of displaced persons following World War II (1945-1951), based on a narrow issue such as Jewish or German immigrants or the accentuation of housing difficulties after World War II. Correspondence dealing primarily with these topics rather than displaced persons are found in the "General" subseries. The series also records Gossett's legislative activities through bills and draft copies, hearings, public addresses, and committee correspondence, as well as Gossett's other activities on immigration committees including reports on the US Immigration and Naturalization Service.
This subseries contains Gossett’s speeches, including several national radio addresses, on immigration laws arranged in date order. It begins with an undated draft (circa 1943) of a speech supporting his bill to eliminate the Chinese Exclusion Act and ends with a 1949 speech in opposition to increasing DP quotas. It comprises letters referencing specific issues in immigration (Chinese, German, Jewish, seamen naturalization, housing problems, and Canada) excluding references to the broader immigration situation. It also contains publications, news releases, and newspaper clippings about the immigration of displaced persons during the years 1945-1949.
Gossett’s correspondence on immigration begins with letters from March to November 1943 about his work to repeal the Chinese Exclusion Act. In 1945, the correspondence shifts to Gossett’s bills restricting immigration of aliens formerly serving in enemy armed forces and an overall reduction in immigration quotas, and to his growing stance against immigration of displaced persons. However, the bulk of correspondence deals with the immigration of displaced persons following World War II. Correspondence in the years 1946-1948 responds to Gossett's public addresses, while that in 1949 deals primarily with the Displaced Persons Act of 1948 and disaffection with its application toward different groups. Different correspondents provide views on its application to German, Greek, Jewish, and Baltic refugees. Letters dealing primarily with German or Jewish immigration can be found in the “General” series while letters only including these topics among others or as part of a larger criticism of the Displaced Persons Act are found here.
This subseries relates to Gossett’s activities on the House Immigration and Naturalization Committee (1943-1945) and the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration and Naturalization (1945-1951). Correspondence found here generally chronicles Gossett’s attempts to pilot his various bills through the sub-committee and requests for the sub-committee’s attention to the immigration of specific cases/individuals. The subseries also contains published records of hearings and statements presented for hearings on various immigration bills as well as reports on bills from the committees.
This subseries relates to the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) during the years 1945-1950. Included are several memos criticizing the application or enforcement of immigration laws by the INS. The subseries also contains issues of the Monthly Review by the INS, as well as annual reports for 1944-1950 excluding 1947. In addition it contains an undated and incomplete report on immigration figures and a report on an internal investigation of an INS Assistant Chief heading seamen and smuggling work in the Investigation Section.
This series contains materials dealing with the “freight rate problem” and efforts to reduce the inequality of freight rates between Texas and the Official Zone. It contains letters to Gossett, and reports for Congress beginning with a 1937 report on freight rates by the TVA and several reports from 1943 by the Board of Investigation and Research. Furthermore, it includes speeches by Gossett from 1943-1945, and a copy of his bill H.R. 413 introduced January 3, 1945, to amend the Interstate Commerce Act.
This series relates to the issue of adequate oil supply to matters of pricing controls, taxation, pipeline infrastructure, and Middle Eastern oil. Correspondence from 1943 to 1946 deals with the rationing and price control of oil by the Office of Price Administration. Letters from 1949 to 1951 speak to the issue of assuring adequate stocks of domestic and imported oil. Other materials include reports and articles on Middle Eastern oil production, publications on the oil industry in general, and statements before the House Ways and Means Committee on price controls, taxation, and depletion allowances. Finally, it includes speeches and remarks by Gossett.
This series contains materials relating to events, policies, and attitudes about Palestine following World War II. The largest portion comprises publications on the partition of Palestine and the creation of an Israeli state from the perspective of Arabs, Jews, and Americans. It also contains some UN documents from the fall of 1948 preceding the UN resolution to partition Palestine and speeches by Gossett opposing US support for the partition.
This subseries pertains to Palestine following World War II and the early stages of the modern state of Israel. They include letters about Palestine and Israel, and publications about conditions in the state of Israel. Also included are several speeches by Gossett opposing the partition of Palestine for the creation of an Israeli state, in addition to speeches by others before the House of Representatives on the same topic.
This subseries contains pamphlets, circulars, newspaper articles, and open letters that capture some American attitudes towards Palestine and the creation of an Israeli states containing arguments against an Israeli state whose content is substantively anti-Semitic from materials that are generally against Zionism or the creation of an Israeli state. The subseries also contains materials created by the American Council for Judaism which argued against an Israeli state from a Jewish perspective. Finally, pro-Zionist materials comprises letters with resolutions, newspaper ads, and pamphlets in support of an Israeli state as well as several issues of the weekly B’nai B’rith Messenger.
These materials describe relations between different political actors in the Middle East both prior to but mainly after World War II. It includes news articles on combat incidents between Jews and ArabsDLthe bulk of which are found in issues of Haganah Speaks ranging from March to August 1948.
Other materials include articles, newspaper articles, periodicals, booklets, and speeches describing relations between Jews and Arabs in Palestine more generally. Newspaper clippings and issues of Haganah Speaks discuss British involvement in Palestine. Finally, this subseries contains newspaper clippings, pamphlets, and radio addresses on American foreign policy in Palestine.
This subseries contains speeches before the UN Ad Hoc Committee on the Palestine Question in October 1947. Furthermore, it includes reports from that committee to the UN General Assembly, speeches before the assembly, and a record of the Assembly’s proceedings in November 1947. Finally, it holds newspaper articles and editorials about the partitioning of Palestine by the United Nations.
This series includes books, pamphlets, open letters, circulars, and periodicals illustrating some American reactions to Jews. They include publications espousing bigotry against Jews and some by Christian organizations, particularly issues of The Cross and the Flag. Publications from 1942 to 1950 describe Judaism, and the series also contains speeches before Congress on the visible effects of racial prejudice. Finally, it includes private reports to an unknown recipient on activities of Jewish communities in California from 1948 to 1949.
This series contains publications, correspondence, bills, hearings, legal filings, and speeches relating to the Texas tidelands controversy. Speeches, publications, and memorandums on the validity of federal control over tidelands are located in the "General" subseries, while bills, case filings, committee hearings, and correspondence each have their own subseries.
These materials include press releases announcing bills introduced by various Congressmen to resolve the tidelands controversy, and speeches by Gossett before the House and at other events, as well as speeches and remarks by others before Congress. The subseries also contains long memorandums from the Texas State Teacher’s Association and Price Daniel, Texas Attorney General, claiming rightful state ownership in the tidelands controversy. Likewise, it includes resolutions by state legislatures and other organizations supporting the states’ position in the controversy. Some resolutions of organizations with cover letters still attached are located in the Tideland/Correspondence subseries. Publications include booklets, periodicals, and newsletters about the tidelands controversy, as well as legal commentaries on the issue.
This subseries covers materials pertaining to legislation in the Tidelands Controversy. It contains copies of bills introduced by Gossett to secure Congressional approval for state ownership of disputed tidelands. Drafts containing similar language to introduced bills but having no dates have been kept separate from the officially published resolutions. The subseries also includes memos on the different bills, and reports from the House Judiciary Committee on bills, including drafts of these reports.
These materials pertain to three Supreme Court cases over state ownership of tidelands. They include letters between Price Daniel, Attorney General of Texas, and Gossett about Daniel’s activities in State of Texas. Also included are a few filings with the Supreme Court in cases involving California and Louisiana, as well as a larger number of filings for the case involving Texas. Finally, the subseries contains publications reacting to the Supreme Court’s ruling in the Texas case.
This subseries contains statements and reports by lawyers, engineers, and members of the oil industry for the House and Senate Judiciary Committees on legislation over the tidelands controversy. The bulk of the materials comprise the House Judiciary Committee’s hearings in August 1949 on HR 5991 and 5992, bills introduced by Gossett to secure the rights of states to the tidelands. The materials also include statements for the House committee, and for the Senate Judiciary Committee.
These letters primarily consist of correspondence between Gossett, Price Daniel, Texas Attorney General, and Robert Lee Bobbitt, Chairman of the Texas Bar Association’s Tidelands Committee, but also contain letters from other Texas state officials, citizens, and organizations voicing concern over the tidelands conflict. The substance of this correspondence portrays the concurrent efforts of Gossett in committee and Daniel in State of Texas to oppose federal seizure of tidelands.
Lola Hopper was born near Houston and grew up there before moving to San Marcos prior to the start of high school. She was involved in high school student government, introducing a bill to desegregate extracurricular activities such as sports. The bill passed and sports were desegregated after she graduated. Hopper attributes her love for politics to the success of this early effort. Hopper studied English and history at Austin Community College for one year before leaving school in 1965 to work as a secretary for Terrell Blodgett, Administrative Assistant to Texas Governor John B.
Connally. In 1969, she became the office manager for Donald Adams, working for Adams during his time as a State Representative and a State Senator. When Adams left office in 1978, Hopper took a job in the TXU lobbying office until 1987 when she became office manager for State Senator Judith Zaffirini for two years. In the 1990’s, Hopper worked for Texas Attorney General Jim Mattox in his Outreach for the Blind Project, then for Attorney General Dan Morales’ Child Support Division. Finally, she worked for Texas Mental Health and Mental Retardation in Austin. After a lengthy career working for various politicians and political organizations, Hopper retired in 2002. However, she remained an active volunteer for various Democratic Party politicians and political causes. Most notably, she was an early volunteer for the Hillary Clinton 2008 Presidential Campaign, coordinating volunteers when Clinton visited Waco on the campaign trail and recruiting veterans to attend the event. She was so active in Clinton’s campaign that she was chosen as a delegate to attend the 2008 Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colorado, casting her vote for Clinton in the race eventually won by Barack Obama.
Series I. Texas Capitol Renovation contains materials Lola Hopper collected during various Texas Capitol Building renovations between the 1960's and 1980's. Hopper personally took photographs during some of the renovations, including pictures inside the inner walls of the dome and pictures of the statue of the Goddess of Liberty when the statue was removed from the top of the dome. Hopper also collected several pieces of masonry from inside the Capitol building, including limestone, granite, marble, floor tiles, nails, and light fixtures. All of these three-dimensional materials are in their own separate box, mostly wrapped in foam for protection. The three-dimensional materials in this collection are in good condition, whereas the photographs are slightly faded and are in average condition.
Series II. Donald Adams contains materials related to Lola Hopper’s time as secretary for Texas State Representative and State Senator Donald Adams. Hopper kept many pictures of Adams, his staff, and his time in office, as well as letters and notes from Adams and his wife Linda, newspaper clippings, and stationery from the Texas Constitutional Convention. Hopper also collected a lot of material from Donald Adams’s Governor for a Day ceremony in 1977. This includes coffee cups, a gavel, booklets, newspaper clippings, and photographs. The folders are organized chronologically, with documents first and photographs second. The three-dimensional materials are housed in a separate box. The materials in this series are in good condition.
Series III. Campaigns contains a wide variety of materials Lola Hopper collected during her time volunteering for and supporting political campaigns. Hopper vigorously supported the Democratic Party in Texas and nationwide, and this series holds many campaign materials she collected from local, state, and federal elections. She was also active in many non-electoral political causes, including denuclearization and women’s issues. Her collection of campaign material includes campaign buttons, bumper stickers, yard signs, printed material, and photographs. Among the three-dimensional materials in this collection are t-shirts and hats with candidates’ names and messages printed on them. The materials in folders are sorted by candidate’s last name when a candidate is mentioned, and alphabetically when a specific candidate is not named. Most of the materials in this collection are in good condition although some of the buttons are slightly rusty.
Series IV. 2008 Presidential Campaign contains materials belonging to Lola Hopper from the 2008 election, mostly from the Democratic primary process. Hopper was an enthusiastic supporter of Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination and collected a significant amount of Clinton campaign materials. Hopper was eventually chosen as a delegate for the State of Texas to the Democratic National Convention where she supported Clinton. Barack Obama ultimately emerged as the party's nominee. This series contains many materials from Hopper’s trip to Denver, Colorado for the convention, including tee shirts, programs, bags, backpacks, and the hat adorned with buttons that she wore on the convention floor. The series is organized alphabetically, with the Hillary Clinton materials first and the Democratic National Convention materials afterwards. The series is in excellent condition.
Series V. Personal contains materials which are not related to Lola Hopper’s political activities. This includes coffee cups, photographs, patriotic clothing and bumper stickers, Texas-themed items, and a Mother’s Day card. The series is organized alphabetically by subject. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Bullock maintained a full-time campaign office at various Austin locations for almost 20 years. State campaign laws and his experiences early in his term as Comptroller taught him the wisdom of keeping political and state officeholder operations separate.A small campaign staff ran a mail, scheduling, fundraising, and administrative office year round. During election years, the staff was reinforced with enough paid workers and volunteers to run the effective political campaigns that made Bullock’s reputation as a formidable opponent. In addition, there was usually a network of hundreds of volunteers in counties all over the state coordinating campaign stops, fundraisers, and press conferences. While he was Comptroller and Lt. Governor, Bullock hosted an annual fundraising reception, first class in promotion and execution, for as many as a thousand supporters and friends. In addition to the invitations to these receptions, the collection contains the one-of-a-kind souvenirs or mementos that were given to every guest and became a hallmark of the Bullock fundraisers. These items include personalized pens, lapel pins, paperweights, gavels, neck scarves, and even a Bullock drawing commissioned from Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Ben Sargent.
In 1974, Bullock campaigned for Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts and was elected. The 1974 Campaign series contains eleven subseries: General, Flyers, Radio, Correspondence, Endorsements — Newspapers, Endorsements — Tom Green County, Financial, Invitations — Fundraisers, Itineraries, Position Papers, and Publications. The General subseries has a publicity packet, biographical sketches, bumper stickers, and other general campaign materials. Flyers and Radio contributed to publicity surrounding Bullock’s 1974 campaign. The Correspondence subseries contains campaign correspondence from individuals, other politicians, or campaign staff members. The two Endorsements subseries contain candidate endorsements found in newspaper clippings and correspondence pertaining to Tom Green County. Financial contains contribution and expense reports. Invitations reflect fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and other politicians. They include actual invitations and pledge cards. The Itineraries subseries shows Bullock’s dedication to campaign travel, and holds schedules, trip folders, general travel materials, and news clippings. Position papers detail Bullock’s position on critical issues such as crime, drugs, and higher education. Some are in the form of reports while others are found in correspondence and memos. The Publications subseries covers various forms of public media which Bullock collected or people sent him about himself, his campaigns, and politics in general. It contains articles, news clippings, newsletters, and press releases, arranged chronologically and pertaining to information about the political climate and events surrounding Bullock’s political campaigns.
Bullock successfully campaigned for Comptroller a second time in 1978. The 1978 Campaign series contains six subseries: General, Endorsements, Financial, Invitations — Fundraisers, Polls, and Publications. The General subseries contains materials used in political campaigns, such as publicity packets, biographical sketches, brochures, envelopes, and letterhead. The Endorsements subseries includes procedures, while the Financial subseries holds contributions and expense reports, and correspondence. The Invitations subseries reflects fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and other politicians, including actual invitations and pledge cards. Correspondence regarding different events and occasions Bullock was invited to are located in this section. Polls contains a telephone survey, and Publications holds public media that Bullock collected or people sent him about himself, his campaigns, and politics in general. This involves news clippings and press releases in this series.
For a third time, Bullock campaigned for Comptroller and won. The 1982 Campaign series contains nine subseries: General, Endorsements — Groups, Endorsements — Newspapers, Financial, Invitations, Itineraries, Polls, Position Papers, and Publications. The General subseries contains materials used in political campaigns, such as press packets, flyers, brochures, bumper stickers, buttons, apparel, envelopes, and letterhead, in addition to other general campaign files. The Endorsements subseries are split into Groups and Newspapers, containing numerous candidate endorsements made by Bullock; correspondence and endorsements of Bob Bullock by groups and organizations; and clippings of endorsements by newspapers. Financial contains contribution and expense reports, and contributor lists. Invitations reflect fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and other politicians, including invitations and pledge cards. The Itineraries subseries holds trip folders to various locations included in his campaign travel schedule. Polls contains information on election surveys, public attitude surveys, and analyses of polling information. The Position Papers subseries includes a statement of Bullock’s positions on critical issues. Publications within this series includes news clippings and press releases.
For the fourth and final time in 1986, Bullock ran for Comptroller and won. The 1986 Campaign series has seven subseries: General, Correspondence, Elections, Endorsements and Questionnaires, Financial, Polls, and Publications. The General subseries contains general campaign information, and the Correspondence subseries includes correspondence from individuals, other politicians, and campaign staff members. Elections consists of general election candidate profiles. The Endorsements and Questionnaires subseries contains procedures, clippings of endorsements by newspapers, and questionnaires. Financial contains contributions to others, contribution and expense reports, and contribution requests. 1986 Campaign Polls includes information on election surveys and polling reports, and Publications holds news clippings and press releases surrounding Bullock’s political campaigns.
The 1990 Campaign series is the largest and has twenty subseries, with several containing sub-subseries. This is reflective of Bullock’s massive campaign for Lieutenant Governor. The subseries include: Accomplishments, General, Border Master Plan, Gold Plated Agency, County Organization, Media/Advertising, Telephone, Correspondence, Transition, Elections, Endorsements, Financial, Invitations, Issues, Itineraries, Mosbacher, Polls, Position Papers, Publications, and Reports. After Accomplishments, the General subseries includes general campaigning information and materials used in political campaigns, such as brochures, bumper stickers, buttons and apparel, magnets, envelopes and letterhead, flyers, and faxes received and sent. The Border Master Plan subseries contains press releases, proposals, brochures, speeches, correspondence, and other materials related to the United States/Mexico border plan. Gold-Plated Agency, related to opposition research, contains correspondence, news clippings, press releases, and other items. The County Organization subseries holds correspondence, advertising, and Travis County specific materials. Media/Advertising contains correspondence, news clippings, and press kits, while the Telephone subseries includes telephone lists, action forms, and summaries related to the race for lieutenant governor. The Correspondence subseries has four organizational sub-subseries. The Transition subseries holds correspondence showing the materials Bullock had researched and put together to facilitate his transition from Comptroller to Lieutenant Governor. Elections consists of both primary and general election materials and analyses, correspondence, and reports on election results. The Endorsements subseries has six sub-subseries, the Financial subseries includes four sub-subseries, Invitations has two sub-subseries, and the Issues subseries has seven sub-subseries. The Itineraries subseries details Bullock’s travels for the 1990 campaign. It includes weekly and monthly calendars, schedules, and folders related to Jan Bullock. The Mosbacher subseries, pertaining to Bullock’s opposition, has thirteen sub-subseries. Polls contains information on election surveys, public attitude surveys, telephone surveys, polling reports, and analyses of polling information. Position papers detail Bullock’s position on critical issues such as budget, crime, drugs, health care, higher education, and jobs. The Publications subseries contains six sub-subseries, and the last subseries, Reports, includes the correspondence system report and weekly reports.
The Correspondence subseries has four sub-subseries, organized by: Alpha, Form Letters, Other, and Staff. It contains correspondence from individuals, other politicians, and campaign staff members.
The Endorsements subseries has six sub-subseries: Bob Bullock, Correspondence, Groups, Newspapers, Pending, and Questionnaires. These sub-subseries contain numerous candidate endorsements made by Bullock, correspondence and endorsements of Bob Bullock by individuals, groups, and organizations, clippings of endorsements by newspapers, correspondence on pending endorsements, and questionnaires.
The Financial subseries includes four sub-subseries: Card File, Bullock Contribution to Others, General, and Texans for Fundamental Fairness. This subseries contains contribution and expense reports, financial correspondence, contribution letters, and file cards which are arranged alphabetically.
Invitations includes two sub-subseries: Fundraisers and General. Invitations reflect fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and the Democratic Party Convention. They include actual invitations and pledge cards.
The Issues subseries has seven sub-subseries: General, Blacks, Emerging, Environment, Gay/Lesbian, Hispanics, Labor, and Other. Issues reflects correspondence and research, as well as news clippings, articles, and reports on the pertinent political issues of each campaign. Bullock conducted extensive and thorough research into any issue that currently existed or that he felt might grow to importance during his campaigns. The 1990 Campaign series contains the most extensive portion of issue files.
Mosbacher includes fourteen sub-subseries: Advertising, Contribution and Expense Reports, Correspondence, Department of Human Services, Endorsements, Federal Election Commission, Financial, Interested Party Memos, Mail Outs, News clippings, Open Records, Press, Robert, Sr. and Georgette, and Notebooks. This subseries details Bullock’s Republican opposition Rob Mosbacher. It is a sizable subseries and shows Bullock’s dedication to his 1990 campaign for lieutenant governor. Bullock kept files on many aspects of his opponents’ campaigns, all found within the Mosbacher subseries.
The Publications subseries has six sub-subseries: Articles, Brochures, Debates, News clippings, Newsletters, and Press Releases. Publicity covers various forms of public media which Bullock collected or people sent him about himself, his campaigns, and politics in general. The various forms of publications are arranged chronologically and contain information about the political climate and events surrounding Bullock’s political campaigns.
The 1994 Campaign series is the second largest and has fourteen subseries, with several containing sub-subseries. This series also covers a campaign for Lieutenant Governor. The subseries include: General, Media/Advertising, Correspondence, Endorsements, Financial, Invitations - Fundraisers, Issues, Itineraries, Mosbacher, Notebooks, Polls, Position Papers, Publications, and Reports. General in 1994 Campaigns contains materials used in political campaigns, such flyers and bumper stickers. The Media/Advertising subseries holds campaign advertising materials like ads, information packets, correspondence, mailings, and radio ads. Correspondence has three sub-subseries and the Endorsements subseries has two sub-subseries. Financial in this series contains financial correspondence. Invitations reflect fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and other politicians. They include actual invitations and pledge cards. The Issues subseries has three sub-subseries. Itineraries includes folders of weekly and monthly calendars, and some related to Jan Bullock’s involvement. The Mosbacher subseries details Bullock’s Republican opposition Rob Mosbacher through contribution and expense reports, general campaign information, and news clippings. Notebooks holds a Senate Race analysis, while Polls contains information on election surveys, public attitude surveys, telephone surveys, polling reports, and analyses of polling information. Position papers detail Bullock’s position on critical issues such as crime and drugs. Publications contains four sub-subseries, and Reports contains Texas business reports.
The Correspondence subseries has three sub-subseries, organized by: Alpha, Form Letters, and Senators. It contains correspondence from individuals, other politicians, and campaign staff members.
The Endorsements subseries has two sub-subseries: Groups and Questionnaires. These sub-subseries contain candidate endorsements made by Bullock, correspondence and endorsements of Bob Bullock by groups and organizations, and questionnaires.
 The Issues subseries has three sub-subseries: Environment, Gay/Lesbian, and Others. Issues contains correspondence and subject files related to the political issues of the 1994 campaign. Bullock conducted extensive and thorough research into current events and topics that he felt might grow to importance during his campaigns.
 The Publications subseries has four sub-subseries: Articles, News clippings, Newsletters, and Press Releases. Publicity covers various forms of public media which Bullock collected or people sent him about himself, his campaigns and politics in general. The various forms of publications are arranged chronologically.
The Post 1995 Campaign series contains four subseries: Campaign Materials, Invitations — Fundraisers, Polls, and Publications — Newsletters. The Post 1995 Campaign Materials contains materials used in political campaigns, such as banners and apparel. Invitations — Fundraisers reflect fundraising and campaign events for Bullock and other politicians. The Polls subseries contains information on election surveys, public attitude surveys, telephone surveys, and polling reports. Publications — Newsletters contains two volumes of Texas News and Views about the political climate and events surrounding Bullock’s political campaigns.
James R. “Jim” Dunnam served as the Texas State Representative for District 57 from 1997-2011. He was born December 12, 1963, in Waco, Texas, where he continues to reside. Dunnam attended Baylor University where he attained his BBA in 1986 and JD from Baylor Law School in 1987. He began working as a member of his family’s law practice, Dunnam & Dunnam, L.L.P. in 1988. Dunnam ran as the Democratic candidate in the 1996 election, won, and served until losing his bid for re-election in November 2010. Considered a leader in the Democratic Party, he was named the leader of the House Democratic Caucus from 2003-2011. Dunnam’s major bills included charter-school reform and restrictions on open containers of alcohol in cars. Additionally, he worked to improve public schools, economic development, affordable health care, focused on the Bosque River, higher education, and oversaw the evaluation and re-authorization of the State Bar of Texas and the State Board of Law Examiners. In 2003, he led the controversial Killer Ds walkout to Ardmore, Oklahoma to stall Republican Tom DeLay’s mid-decade redistricting plan. Dunnam was appointed to several committees and acquired numerous awards. He served on the Texas Supreme Court Rules Advisory Committee, 1998-2003, Texas Sunset Advisory Committee, 2001-2005, House Select Committee on Judicial Interpretation of Law, and the House Committee for Oversight of Family Law and Texas Family Code. He served as Chair of the Interim Committee on Charter Schools, the Select Committee on Federal Economic Stabilization Funding, and as Vice-Chair of the Committee on Criminal Jurisprudence. Dunnam was named Baylor’s Young Lawyer of the Year in 2001, and one of Texas’s Ten Best Legislators in 2001 by Capitol Inside. He is certified as a civil trial law and family law attorney.
This series includes Dunnam’s administrative papers from his full tenure in office. It contains five subseries: General, Appointment Schedules, Campaign Materials, Personal, and Travel Vouchers. The General subseries contains items such as Dunnam’s desk nameplate, guestbooks, and various office records. The Campaign Materials include invitations, finance reports, and campaign ads and objects. Awards, memberships, and biographical material are included in the Personal subseries. This series is in good condition.
This series contains correspondence with the following subseries: General, McLennan County, and Members. The General subseries is organized topically and includes issues such as education, health, lawsuit reform, redistricting, and taxes. The McLennan County subseries covers correspondence pertaining to the county, arranged chronologically, and the Members subseries refers to members of Texas Legislature, also arranged chronologically. Additionally, the Members subseries includes correspondence on redistricting. The Correspondence series is in good condition.
This series holds constituent material from the 57th District. It contains the subseries: Cities and Counties, Phone Logs, Questionnaires, Reading Files, Speeches, and Thank Yous. Questionnaires consists of education funding questionnaires from 2005. A few topics among the Speeches are the Bosque River, Education, Memorial Day, and physical activity for children. With the exception of Cities and Counties and Speeches, the other subseries are arranged chronologically. This series is in good condition.
The Legislative series contains material from the 75th through 81st Legislative sessions, 1996-2010, the length of Dunnam’s service as a member of the Texas House of Representatives. It contains the subseries: General, 75th Session, 76th Session, 77th Session, 78th Session, 79th Session, 80th Session, 81st Session, Committees, Democratic Caucus, Memos, and Topical. The subseries General through 81st Session include some or all of the following sub-subseries: General, Correspondence, House Bills, Senate Bills, Joint Resolutions, Commemoratives and Commendations, and Topical. The subseries Committees consists of numerous sub-subseries representing committees Dunnam was a member of, chaired, or for which he had files. Democratic Caucus contains materials related to Dunnam’s leadership of the House Democratic Caucus from 2003-2011. Memos are arranged chronologically and topically within the General sub-subseries and by “Monday Memos" from 2003. The Topical subseries contains the sub-subseries: Ardmore (Killer Ds), Bosque River, Charter Schools, Redistricting, School Finance, Supreme Court of Texas, Texas Youth Commission, and tort reform. The Legislative series is in good condition.
This series contains copies of newspaper clippings from 1996-2010. The subseries Clippings holds general material about the Texas Legislature, politics, and the state; the subseries Dunnam Articles relates to articles specifically about Jim Dunnam. This series is in good condition.
The Personal series holds material about the Texas/Oklahoma Bar Grievance from May 2002-May 2003. This series is in good condition.
This series contains press releases, arranged topically. A few topics of note include awards, the Bosque River, the “Dunnam Report,” education, health, homeowners, gun control, re-election, Sunset Advisory commission, and veterans. This series is in good condition.
The Audio-Visual series contains Dunnam’s cassette tapes, CDs, photographs, reel tapes, and VHS tapes. Cassettes include recordings of House Committees. CDs holds, among other topics, Dunnam’s state computer files for the 79th-81st sessions. Photographs consist of Dunnam, his family, House of Representatives members, the Killer Ds, and Governor George W. Bush. Reels relate to Blue Bell Creameries and HEB. The VHS subseries includes charter school news clips, committee hearings, legislative sessions, and a variety of other topics. The Audio-Visual series is in good condition.
Alan Steelman (1942- ) represented Texas's Fifth District from 1973-1976 in the U.S. House of Representatives as a Republican. He ran a distinctive "walking campaign" against incumbent Democrat Earle Cabell and won. At the date of his election, Nov. 7, 1972, Steelman was the youngest Republican member of the House at age 29 and earned a post-graduate fellowship at Harvard's Institute for Politics in late 1972. Steelman's Congressional career immediately blossomed. He was named one of TIME Magazine's "200 Emerging Young National Leaders" in 1974. While in Congress, Steelman served on two committeesDLGovernment Operations and Interior and Insular Affairs. Environmental issues were one area in which Steelman left his mark, particularly the fight against the Trinity River Canal and for the formation of Big Thicket National Preserve. Other legislative priorities for Steelman included energy, transportation, veterans, wage and price controls, and Social Security. His road to the House began with his upbringing in two towns in Arkansas: Arkadelphia and Fordyce. Steelman later attended Baylor University on a baseball scholarship and received his B.A. in Political Science in 1964. Next, he led the Republican Party of Dallas County from January 1966 to January 1969, and in 1971 graduated from Southern Methodist University with an M.L.A. During his leadership of the Dallas County Republicans, Steelman also remained executive director of the Sam Wyly Foundation of Dallas from January to September in 1969. President Richard Nixon appointed Steelman the executive director of the President's Advisory Council on Minority Business Enterprise in that same September in 1969. Steelman held that post until he stepped down to run for Congress January 1972. Steelman ran for the U.S. Senate as a Republican in 1976 and lost to Democratic incumbent Lloyd Bentsen. In 1977, he began work with the Alexander Proudfoot Company, a worldwide consulting firm listed on the London Stock Exchange. He was appointed by Governor George W.
Bush to the Texas Growth Fund Board, a $600 million venture capital fund run by the State of Texas. Other posts included Vice Chairman of the Board at the John Tower Center for Political Studies at SMU and the Trinity Foundation, Chairman of the Dallas Council on World Affairs, and former President of Maxager Technology, Inc. (now Profit Velocity Solutions), a private, California-based, software company. While at Proudfoot, Steelman was Group President for the Asia-Pacific region. This enabled him to live in Singapore for eight years and build the Proudfoot start-up in that geographical area. Steelman oversaw the company's business interests in Malaysia, New Zealand, Australia, Indonesia, China, Korea, Taiwan, Japan, Hong Kong, and Thailand. He currently lectures on U.S.-Asia relations, drawing from his business experience in that part of the world.
Steelman is married to his wife Susan, the former Susan Seligman Fuller, and is father to five children: Robin Whitehead, Kim Cuban, Allison Carter, Alan Steelman Jr., and Alex Steelman. He has two stepchildren, Daniel Fuller and Elizabeth Fuller.
This series encompasses Steelman's administrative documents from his entire time in public office, 1973 to 1976. It includes: General Office Files, Requests, and Schedules. General office files contains information on Steelman's ratings, press releases, public relations, and his application for the Outstanding Young Man award. Constituent requests reside in Requests. Schedules include Steelman's district and D.C. schedules as well as his wife's schedule from 1973. This series is in good condition.
This series includes documents on Steelman's personal life from the years 1960-2003. It has folders delineating his involvement with the Dallas Council on World Affairs, his Proudfoot company profile, news clippings from 1972 on his uncle, John R. Steelman, an aide to President Harry Truman, and tickets to 2003 Texas Rangers games. This series is in average condition.
This series holds two features: U.S. House and U.S. Senate materials. The U.S. House materials contain campaign items, a booklet, news clippings, and envelopes. The U.S. Senate campaign materials contain news clippings on Republican primary opponents, brochures, press releases, small banners, and a "Steelman for Senate" campaign button and bumper sticker, among other items. Most of the news clippings are copies. This series is in good condition.
This series comprises the majority of Steelman's correspondence with constituents in four subseries by year: 1972-1973, 1974, 1975, 1976. Each subseries except the 1976 subseries contains four sub-subseries: Alpha, Incoming, Outgoing, and Topical. Incoming and Outgoing sub-subseries deal with praise, thanks, and congratulations to and from Steelman. The topical sections have letters on pertinent issues from that year, such as Steelman's controversial 1973 naming of the federal building in Dallas after his opponent in the 1973 Texas Fifth Congressional District race, Earle Cabell. This series is in good condition. Alphabetical ordering by the first two letters of the constituent's last name structures the 1973 correspondence. Incoming and outgoing correspondence for 1972-1973 mainly consists of thank you notes, praise, and congratulatory letters while the 1972-1973 topical subseries heavily leans towards Dallas Metroplex issues. The years of 1974-1976 mirror the 1972-1973 arrangement and thematic focus. 1976 correspondence lacks an alpha subseries.
This series includes Steelman's contact with various federal agencies and governmental departments arising from constituent concerns and recommendations for posts in the departments. It is alphabetically ordered according to folder title and/or department name. Prominent departments in this series are the U.S. Postal Service; Housing and Urban Development; Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW), and The White House. The series also contains a lone folder on housing in the State of Texas in 1975 and is in good condition.
This series encompasses Steelman's work in the Fifth Congressional District of Texas with two subseries: Dallas and Texas. The Dallas subseries contains materials on AMTRAK's service to that city, community activism, and records of Steelman's trips in January and February 1973. Particular localities, numerous industries (mining, air travel, tool manufacturing, food processing), and state and local relations figure prominently in the Texas subseries. This series remains in good condition.
This series contains eleven subseries: Agriculture, Animal Welfare, Appropriations, Armed Services, Banking and Currency, Foreign Affairs, Government Operations, Interior and Insular Affairs, Judiciary Committee, Ways and Means, and Cabinet Committee on Spanish-Speaking People. A District of Columbia sub-subseries as well as ones on the National Budget, Education and Labor, Health, House Administration, and Labor reside in the Banking and Currency subseries. Interior and Insular Affairs contains a sub-subseries on Immigration and Naturalization and the Judiciary Committee subseries has three sub-subseries: Post Office and Civil Service, Science and Astronautics, and Small Business. The series is in alpha order with the exception of the Education and Labor sub-subseries, which is in chronological-topical ordering. This series is in good condition.
Three subseriesDL93rd Congress, 94th Congress, and TopicalDLreside in this series. It is the largest in the Steelman papers. These subseries were in binders prior to processing. In the 93rd Congress subseries, many folders center around the economy, Citizens Band radios, ecology, transportation, commerce, and FDA consumer vitamin labeling. Conservation, the EPA, healthcare, transportation, veterans issues, and ecology remain prominent in the 94th Congress series. Unique documents such as materials on urban homesteading and Guam's constitution are in the 93rd and 94th Congresses, respectively. Other interesting pieces comprise a bill brought to the floor of the 93rd Congress to make the marigold the U.S. national flower, and Steelman's baseball cards from his stint in the Congressional Baseball Game. Heavy sampling took place in the 94th Congress subseries.
Moreover, a folder in 94th Congress entitled "Patriotism, 'Our United States-Help Save It' " contains a tape recording. A trio of folders on the elderly expound on Steelman's special concern for them, exhibited in photos in the A/V series of the papers. The Topical subseries contains five sub-subseries: General, Amtrak, Big Thicket, Energy, and Trinity River. These five sub-subseries chronicle the areas of expertise (and the largest issues) Steelman worked on during his four years in the U.S. Congress. The Big Thicket and Trinity River sub-subseries demarcate the two large conservation efforts he passed into law at the national level. This series remains in average condition.
Overall, the Press series remains in good condition, though the Columns, Magazines, and Topical subseries are in poor condition compared to the Releases subseries. The Columns subseries contains articles written by and about Steelman. Steelman's achievements are highlighted in the Magazines subseries, which includes pieces on him from outlets such as Harvard Political Review. The Releases subseries constitutes the largest part of the series and has alphabetical ordering according to the title of the release. A conglomeration of documents on subjects from Steelman's talking points to a pamphlet introducing Steelman from the first session of the 93rd Congress comprise the Topical subseries.
In average condition, the Speeches and Floor Statements series spans the length of Steelman's professional career before and during his time in the U.S. Congress and encompasses two subseries: Floor Statements and Speeches. The Floor Statements subseries has chronological ordering from 1973-1976 and the 1976 folder holds Steelman's appearances in the Congressional Record from that year. The Speeches subseries is in alphabetical order. His speech to the AFL-CIO and his pamphlet, "How to Be An Active Congressional Constituent" retain parts from his time as the chair of the Dallas County Republican Party.
The majority of the Voting Record series is alphabetized according to Steelman's voting on a particular topic, starting with "Aeronautics, Space" and ending with "Youth." The last four folders include the roll call votes for the 93rd and 94th Congresses. This series remains in good condition.
The Audio/Visual series is divided into four subseries according to alpha ordering: Contact Sheets, Interviews, Photographs, and Reel-to-Reel Tapes. Steelman's interview on WRR's Robbi Wernick Program comprises the lone piece of the Interview subseries and is on cassette tape. The Photographs largely came out of three notebooks. Portraits (including a western-style one), family photos, slides, and photographs with Presidents Gerald R. Ford and George H.W. Bush are included in the Photographs subseries. The Reel-to-Reel Tapes subseries spans the year 1973 and were Steelman's radio updates of his positions on vital issues. Most of the shows are monthly episodes. Yellow official Congressional envelopes marked with a shortened version of the program title originally stored the reel-to-reel tapes (and one audio cassette) The Clippings series contains four subseries: General, House Campaign, News Clippings Scrapbooks, and Senate Campaign. The General subseries was in the original inventory but the other three were created during processing. Steelman's post-Congressional work with the Alexander Proudfoot Company in 1989-1990 and the Dallas Council for World Affairs in 2000-2002 is highlighted in the General subseries, as is his pre-Congressional leadership of the Wyly Foundation (1969) and the Dallas County Republican Party (1966-1968). The House Campaign subseries is divided in three groups of months while the Senate Campaign subseries has three separate articles. Subdivided by year, the News Clippings Scrapbooks are in oversized boxes. This series is in good condition and most of the clippings have been copied.
This series is alphabetically ordered by last name of the constituent. During processing, various pieces of casework were moved to other series, mostly the 94th Congress subseries. Contact an archivist for access to this series. This series is in good condition.
Edmund L. Nichols was born in Throckmorton, Texas, December 18, 1931. He attended Throckmorton High School, graduating in 1949, and then furthered his education in music at Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, 1953. He is recognized as a Distinguished Alumnus at both schools. Nichols then attended the University of Texas at Austin, earning a master’s degree in music education, 1957. He married Sandra K. Heiligman in 1964, and they have three children: Dr. Jill E. Nichols, James E. Nichols, and Kelly R. Nichols Jones. They have six grandchildren and live in Austin. During his undergraduate years at Hardin-Simmons, Nichols gained parallel experience in journalism, working full-time at the Abilene Reporter-News. After a brief period of teaching choral music in Pampa, Texas, he was employed by United Press news wire service, first in Dallas and then, in early 1955, to help cover the Texas legislative session and the inauguration of Governor Allan Shivers in Austin. As that session ended, Nichols was invited to join the staff of Texas Agriculture Commissioner John C. White as a technical writer. After a brief hiatus from 1959 to 1961, when Nichols lived and worked in Hawaii, he rejoined the staff of Commissioner White, working from 1961 to 1965 as Administrative Assistant, then as Assistant Commissioner of Agriculture for Texas, 1965-1977. In 1977, White moved to Washington, D. C. and Nichols followed suit as the newly appointed Assistant Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. His D.C. career also included serving as the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) Information and Legislative Officer, 1978-1979. He also represented Agriculture on President Carter’s Export Policy Task Force and was named by President Carter to be a charter member of the U.S. Senior Executive Service. The next chapter in Nichols’ agriculture career involved his appointment by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture to several overseas posts. Nichols moved to Rome, Italy in 1979 as the U.S. Agricultural Counselor to Italy and was commissioned by President Reagan to the rank of Minister-Counselor in the U.S. Senior Foreign Service. The President of Italy decorated Nichols as Commendatore of the Italian Republic for his role in advancing U.S.-Italian trade relations. In 1982, Nichols transferred to Copenhagen to serve as U.S. Agricultural Counselor to Denmark and Norway, and again in 1985 to Madrid, Spain. From 1989-1992, he served as Agricultural Minister-Counselor to the U.S. Mission to the European Communities in Brussels, Belgium. His last assignment in Europe before retiring involved one more year as U.S. Agricultural Counselor in Madrid, 1992-1993. During the course of his service in Europe, Nichols served as chairman of the NATO Food and Agriculture Planning Committee, formed to plan security for Europe and America in the event of war.
This series contains materials relating to Nichols’ roles in the Texas Department of Agriculture in Austin as Administrative Assistant, 1961-1965, and Assistant Commissioner of Agriculture for Texas, 1965-1977. As Assistant Commissioner to John C. White, he played a key role in promoting Texas food products, including the launch of the Texas Agricultural Products (TAP) export marketing program which hosted “Taste of Texas” events in other states. He also traveled widely, marketing Texas produce and meat products in Japan and Europe. Of notable interest in this series are biographies, speeches, photographs, office stationery, event nametags, and items related to a People-to-People tour and the Japan-Texas Association Conference. This series is in good condition.
This series holds items related to Nichols’ roles in the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Washington, D.C. as Assistant to the Deputy Secretary, 1977-1978, and U.S.D.A. Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) Information and Legislative Officer, 1978-1979. As Assistant to the Deputy Secretary, he again worked for John C. White and traveled widely, including to China in 1978 to assist in normalization of trade relations. Notably, Nichols worked with Congressman W. R. Poage to pass the U.S. Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, which improved diplomatic relations for the U.S.D.A. internationally.
Within this series are biographies, correspondence, administrative materials, photographs, event nametags, speeches, memos, and items related to Nichols’s trip to China. This series is in good condition.
This series encompasses Nichols’s diplomatic service with the U.S. Foreign Agricultural Service as U.S. Agricultural Counselor. He served in this capacity in four locations: Rome, Italy; Copenhagen, Denmark and Oslo, Norway; Madrid, Spain; and Brussels, Belgium.
Subseries I. General, covers Nichols’ entire foreign diplomatic service from 1979-1993. It pertains to general materials needed for foreign travel and service in the U.S.D.A., including passports and identification, records, nametags and invitations, and family pet information. It also includes items related to the European Union Conference in 1995.
Subseries II. Rome, Italy, spans 1979-1982, and covers Nichols’ first foreign diplomatic service abroad as U.S. Agricultural Counselor to Italy. He was decorated by the President of Italy in 1982, as Commendatore (a high Italian honorific title) for advancing U.S. — Italian trade relations.
Nichols successfully deliberated with the Italian Minister of Agriculture about not raising tariffs on U.S. exports. Of interest in this subseries are invitations and guest lists for parties and events, travel mementos, public correspondence and official business documents, and personal correspondence and photographs. Subseries II contains some Italian language material.
Subseries III. Copenhagen, Denmark, spans Nichols’ role as U.S. Agricultural Counselor to Denmark and Norway from 1982-1985. Of notable interest in this subseries are invitations and guest lists for parties and events, travel mementos, public correspondence and official business documents, and personal correspondence and photographs. Furthermore, two interesting folders cover Vice President George H. W. Bush’s visit to Denmark, and a visit to Lapland in northern Norway. Subseries III contains some Danish language material.
Subseries IV. Madrid, Spain, covers both of Nichols’ appointments as U.S. Agricultural Counselor to Spain, 1985-1989 and 1992-1993. Both appointments are arranged together in this subseries and can be distinguished by the folder and document dates. Materials in this subseries include biographies, invitations and guest lists for parties and events, travel mementos, public correspondence and official business documents, activities reports, and personal correspondence and photographs. Subseries IV contains some Spanish language material.
Subseries V. Brussels, Belgium, spans Nichols’ second-to-last overseas role from 1989-1992, as U.S. Agricultural Minister-Counselor, U.S. Mission to the European Communities. This subseries contains speeches, invitations and guest lists for parties and events, public correspondence and official business documents, travel mementos, and personal correspondence and photographs. Subseries V. contains some French language material.
This series contains material relating to the life and family of Ed Nichols. It is arranged in two subseries: General and Correspondence. Subseries I. General, holds personal items that are not correspondence, namely photographs, materials relating to life events, high school and college education, reunions, family history, music and drama, speeches and essays, and other memorabilia. Subseries II. Correspondence, contains letters to and from the Nichols family, relatives, and friends. The majority of this correspondence is from Nichols’ diplomatic service abroad and may contain duplicated material from Series III.
Dick Russell was born on August 19, 1947, in Boston, Massachusetts. Upon graduating in 1969 from the University of Kansas with a B.A. in Humanities, he pursued a career as a writer and journalist. He briefly wrote for Revolution Without Me (2008) with Jesse Ventura. He appeared as a guest on national television and radio programs, including NBC Nightly News and Good Morning America, and has guest lectured at numerous institutions, including Harvard, the National Arts Club, and the University of California.
Dick Russell is married and has one child. Though he has traveled widely in Europe, Africa, North America, and Asia, he currently resides in Los Angeles and Boston.
The The Man Who Knew Too Much (TMWKTM) series contains extensive research files and drafts for Russell’s 1992 history of the John F. Kennedy assassination. The research files are arranged alphabetically, with the draft manuscripts separated by year from the rest of the series.
The Coalition on Political Assassinations series includes financial reports and COPA conference information.
The JFK Research series mainly contains materials about the assassination of JFK collected after the publication of The Man Who Knew Too Much in 1992.
The Subject Files series is arranged alphabetically and contains research topics ranging from Early American History to Watergate. Most subjects deal with scandal, assassinations, or times of turmoil, usually in the context of government or politics.
The Unpublished Book Projects series includes drafts of two unfinished book projects entitled “The Assassination Records Review Board” and “Closing In.” William Robert “Bob” Poage was born in Waco, Texas, on December 28, 1899. His early life was marked by moves to Albany, Texas, and Throckmorton County, Texas where his father owned or leased ranchlands. The Poages returned to Waco in 1913, and Bob graduated from Waco High School in 1918. He briefly attended Texas A&M, then joined the U.S. Navy at the end of World War I. Following the war, Poage enrolled at Baylor University. During the summer of 1919, Poage attended summer courses at the University of Texas where he was exposed to the state legislature. He returned to Baylor and completed his A.B. in Geology in 1921. While attending Baylor, and for a short time after, Poage worked as a farmhand. Upon his return to Baylor in 1922, Poage taught geology and worked on his law degree. In 1923, Poage completed courses at the University of Colorado and obtained his LL.B from Baylor in 1924. While still a law student, Poage ran for his first political office. He was elected to the Texas House of Representatives in 1924 and served in this capacity for four years while practicing law in Waco. Poage ran an unsuccessful campaign for State Senator against Edgar Witt in 1928. This led him back to Waco to practice law full-time. Poage ran for re-election to the Texas Legislature in 1930 against Frank Baldwin and won the nomination. However, he declined this nomination to pursue the state Senate seat vacated by Edgar Witt upon his election as lieutenant governor. Poage won the vote in a special election and served the remainder of Witt’s term; he ran successfully for two additional terms serving as a Texas State Senator from 1931-1937. In 1934, W. R. Poage ran for the U.S. House of Representatives for the first time amid declining approval for sitting Congressman O.H. Cross. Poage was unsuccessful in this bid. In 1936, he once again opposed Cross, this time defeating the Congressman. In 1937, Poage began his freshman campaign of a longstanding career in the U.S. House of Representatives. Poage announced his retirement from Congress in 1977, and resigned December 1978. In 1979, the W. R. Poage Legislative Library, built in Poage’s honor, was opened on the Baylor University campus in Waco. The library housed Congressman Poage’s office throughout his retirement and continues to house his papers. W.
R. Poage passed away in Temple, Texas, on January 3, 1987, and is buried in Waco's Oakwood Cemetery.
Series I. Correspondence houses letters concerning appointments, job applications for state positions, and political matters within the 13th State Senate District of Texas (McLennan, Falls, Milam, and Limestone counties). The series has an inclusive date range of 1933-1971, however, most of the materials are dated 1933-1936 and are representative of the years Poage was in the Texas Senate. Materials are organized chronologically by year, then alphabetically within each year. The series is in good condition.
Series II. Legislative covers a wide range of topics including horse racing, alcohol taxation, and the regulation of chain stores. Also included are state responses to early New Deal programs. This series is arranged chronologically by year and alphabetically within each year. Most of the materials are in good condition.
Series III. Personal is dated 1923-1936, and divided into three subseries: Campaigns, Press, and Speeches and Programs. The Campaigns subseries includes itineraries, speeches, and materials from Congressman Bob Poage’s unsuccessful run for the U.S. House of Representatives against O.H. Cross in 1934, as well as his successful campaign against Cross in 1936. The Press subseries includes news clippings about Poage and his campaigns as well as newsletters printed while he was in state office. The Speeches and Programs subseries includes one speech by Poage and several given to him by others. The two programs are from the 1917 and 1919 Texas Gubernatorial Inaugural Balls. The materials in this series are arranged in chronological order and are in good condition.
William R. Smith was born August 18, 1863, near Tyler, Texas. After an education in public schools, he graduated from Sam Houston Normal Institute in 1883 and was admitted to the bar in 1885. Smith practiced law in Tyler until he moved to Colorado, TX in 1888, where he practiced law until he was appointed judge of the 32nd Judicial District in 1897. He served in this position until 1903, when the Democratic Party nominated him to represent the 16th District in the 58th Congress. He won the election convincingly and served in Congress from 1903-1916. In Congress, Smith served on several committees, including the Committee on Elections #3 and the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee (1910-1912). He became chairman of the Committee on Irrigation of Arid Lands in 1911, and held that position until 1917. He lost his reelection bid to Thomas Blanton in the 1916 primary but was appointed US district judge for the Western District of Texas by Woodrow Wilson in 1917. As part of this appointment, Smith and his family moved to El Paso, where he served in his position until his death. Smith married Frances Lipscomb Breedlove in 1890, and the couple had five children. He died in El Paso on August 16, 1924.
The Correspondence series contains primarily letters sent or received by W.R. Smith between 1890 and 1912. The letters are almost exclusively of a personal nature, the bulk being letters between Smith and his wife Frances grouped in an eponymous subseries. Letters between Smith and other members of his family, as well as general correspondence within the Smith family, has been grouped together under the General subseries. The series is in average condition.
The General series contains two non-correspondence items that accompanied the collection. One is an investment check made out to Frances Smith (believed to be the daughter, not the wife), and the other is a newspaper clipping discussing the Democratic Convention of 1912 and the failed attempt to nominate James Beauchamp Clark for the presidency. The series is in average condition.
William R. “Bill” Vance was born in Bryan, Texas in 1939. He received a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Texas A&M before attending the University of Texas School of Law, from which he graduated in 1963. Having been admitted to the bar the year of his graduation, Vance worked as the Assistant District Attorney for Brazos County from 1964-1967, and as County Judge from 1967-1978. From 1978-1990, Vance engaged in private legal practice, founding his own firm in 1982. In 1990, Vance defeated incumbent Terry Means to assume a seat on the 10th Court of Appeals, the first native of Brazos County to achieve the office. He won unopposed reelection twice, additionally making an unsuccessful bid for the presiding judgeship of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals. His last term was marked by accounts of discord and strife within the 10th Court, as Chief Justice Tom Gray became notorious for his markedly uncivil dissents. Vance retired from the court in 2009. In addition to his court activities, Vance was active in both regional and statewide organizations. He organized and chaired the Brazos Valley Mental-Health-Mental Retardation Board of Trustees while serving as County Judge in Brazos County, and was director/chairman of the Brazos Valley Development Council. While practicing law privately, he served as a member of the State Depository Board (1982-1985) and State Finance Commission (1985-1986). He was elected president of the Bryan-College Station Chamber of Commerce in 1988 after two years as its Treasurer. Vance married Barbara Thomas and the couple have three children: Bill Jr., Karen (Atkinson), and Brett.
The General series contains a pair of articles related to the “Outstanding Young Man” competition in the 1970s. Also included are a mention of the 4th Annual Memorial Day and a calendar ad for Vance’s campaign to become district judge.
The Campaign series is composed of campaign materials for Vance’s 1990 run for the 10th Court of Appeals and the campaign for the presiding judgeship of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals in 2000. Most of the series consists of clippings related to the two campaigns, though a few examples of official campaign-related materials (including 3-D artifacts) and campaign correspondence are also included.
The 10th Court of Appeals series is composed of documents related to Vance’s time as a justice. Most of the series is press clippings ranging in topic from Vance’s first term to his acrimonious relationship with Tom Gray and subsequent retirement, though an assortment of correspondence and official documents is also included.
Fowler C. West was born July 6, 1940, in Bosqueville, Texas. He attended North Texas State University, 1958-1959, but received his BA degree in Political Science and History from Baylor University in 1963. He earned an MA from George Washington University in Legislative Affairs in 1980, and a JD degree from Georgetown University Law Center in 1988. West began his government career in Washington, D.C. as a staff assistant in the office of Congressman W. R. Poage following his graduation from Baylor. From 1965 to 1969, he was on the professional staff of the House Committee on Agriculture where he had responsibilities involved with the Farm Bill of 1965 and the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act. Then, from 1969 to 1971, he served as Administrative Assistant to Poage acting as staff director and chief advisor. In 1971, West returned to the House Committee on Agriculture as a staff consultant where he served as a legislative professional involved in the development and enactment of the Rural Development Act of 1972, the Farm Credit Act of 1971, and the Rural Telephone Bank Act of 1971. He was promoted to Staff Director of the Committee in 1973. As chief administrative officer of the Committee, he managed a staff of 50 professional and clerical employees and represented the Chairman in scheduling and processing of all legislative matters as well as organizing the Committee each session. During this period, the Committee developed several major legislative packages, including the Farm Bills of 1977 and 1981, and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974 which created the CFTC. He served under Committee Chairmen W. R. Poage, 1973-1974; Thomas S. Foley, 1975-1980; and Kika de la Garza, 1981-1982. President Ronald Reagan appointed West a Commissioner of the CFTC in 1982 for a 5-year term. As a Commissioner, West participated directly in all significant decisions for the CFTC, including the designation of new markets, adoption of rules, commencement of enforcement actions, allocation of budget resources, ruling on appeals from Administrative Law Judges in customer reparation and enforcement cases, review of exchange disciplinary and emergency market actions, and maintaining industry oversight. As a Commissioner, West also chaired the CFTC’s Advisory Committee on CFTC/State Coordination, served as CFTC delegate to the U.S. Office of Consumer Affairs Consumer Advisory Council chairing its Finance Group Task Force, and participated as a member of the National Futures Association Consumer Advisory Council. West was reappointed for another 5-years in 1987. In 1992, when West’s second term expired, he continued to serve as a Commissioner until a replacement was named. From 1993-1995, he was Executive Director of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. in Washington, D.C. From 1996 to the present, he has served as president of West & West in Alexandria, representing groups involved in preserving the Everglades ecosystem. West married Anne Smith Paine of Valdosta, Georgia. They have three sons: Fowler West, Jr., Mitchell Paine West, and William Robert Poage West. He participated in the Baylor University Men and Women of Merit Week in 1984, and was the recipient of the Congressional Staffer of the Year award in 1977. From 2005-2016, he served as co-chair of the Standing Committee, a friend and fund-raising group for the W. R. Poage Legislative Library at Baylor University.
The Agriculture Committee series covers West’s employment on the staff of the House Committee from 1965-1969, and again from 1971-1982. In 1973, he was promoted to staff director, representing the Chairman in scheduling and processing legislative matters and organizing the Committee each session. Topics included in this series are budgets, subsidies, farm problems and farm bills, grain and fuel legislation, rural development, and travel. This series also contains travel materials, including itineraries, maps, and notes from Agriculture Committee fact-finding delegations sent to Africa in 1964, Central America in 1966, India in 1966, and Southeast Asia in 1968. The travel subseries is arranged chronologically. This series is in good condition.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission series has eleven subseries and includes background research, correspondence, cases, news clippings, articles, speeches, and legislative proposals. Further description is provided with each subseries.
The General subseries contains appointments and general files related to the CFTC.
The Advisory Committee on CFTC-State Cooperation subseries documents West’s chairmanship of the Federal Advisory Committee through speeches and information on topics such as commodity pools and model state commodity code. The committee addressed various anti-fraud initiatives involving federal and state enforcement efforts, and bank financed precious metal transactions. West urged the Advisory Committee to address the federal problems of deregulation.
Campaigns I and II subseries’ document West’s appointment to the CFTC in 1982 and 1988, and include the nomination and confirmation process in the U.S. Senate. Present are “Alpha Files,” hundreds of letters to and from members of Congress that West maintained during the process.
Correspondence between the White House and West are also included.
Campaigns I and II subseries’ document West’s appointment to the CFTC in 1982 and 1988, and include the nomination and confirmation process in the U.S. Senate. Present are “Alpha Files,” hundreds of letters to and from members of Congress that West maintained during the process.
Correspondence between the White House and West are also included.
The Correspondence subseries is arranged chronologically.
Dissents and Separate Views are arranged alphabetically by case name and show the issues that were adjudicated to the level of the full Commission. An item level inventory of the binders is provided as a PDF.
The Meetings subseries has been arranged in original order as much as possible, thus papers are mostly chronological. Generally, these files contain memos concerning business discussed at each commission meeting, such as applications for designation as contract market in various option areas.
There are also notebooks for each quarter reporting on the staff, programs, statistics, and objectives of the CFTC. Memos from the CFTC’s Division of Enforcement, Division of Trading and Markets, and Division of Economic Analysis are represented throughout the meeting files. A variety of futures markets are represented in the committee files. Documents dealing with major exchanges and boards of trade are also found in this series.
News Clippings are arranged chronologically, documenting national press coverage of West and the CFTC.
The Publications, Memos, and Notes subseries is arranged by format.
Speeches and Statements subseries is arranged chronologically.
The Subjects subseries contains all CFTC materials not filed with a particular committee meeting or with correspondence files. It is the largest subseries in the collection and is arranged alphabetically by subject. It includes various materials related to topics such as the audit trail, which allowed regulators to detect fraud and abuse in trading; Brent North Sea Crude Oil contracts, a major issue before the CFTC in the early 1990s; and customer restitution, of which West was a proponent.
Personal materials consist of items relating to Baylor University, biographical information, West’s promotions, invitations, and programs.
James Marvin Leath (1931-2000) was born in Henderson, Texas, on May 6, 1931. After attending Kilgore Junior College, Leath attended the University of Texas at Austin where he played lineman as a member of the 1953 winning Cotton Bowl team. He went on to receive his B.B.A. in 1954. Leath's road to Congress went through a stint in the U.S. Army (1954-1956), a football and track coaching position at his alma mater, Henderson High School (1957-1959), and business careers as a salesman, banker, and executive in the banking and manufacturing industries. From 1972-1974, he worked as a special assistant to W.R. Poage, U.S. Representative for Texas’s 11th District. When Poage retired in 1979, Leath ran for Poage's seat and won. Leath served as the U.S. Representative for Texas’s 11th Congressional District from 1979-1990 as a Democrat. A conservative Southern or “Boll Weevil” Democrat, Leath remained ideologically aligned with his Republican colleagues on fiscal matters throughout his tenure in the House. He vigorously supported free market policies, spending cuts, and tirelessly worked for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. Moreover, Leath fervently pursued a policy of peace through strength and supported increased defense spending as well as nuclear armament. While in Congress, he served on the Armed Services Committee and the Public Works and Transportation Committee. Additionally, he chaired the House Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs and Defense of the Budget Committee. Throughout his twelve-year Congressional career, Leath remained particularly devoted to the interests of the U.S. Army installation Fort Hood --one of the largest worldwide Army bases-- in his home district in Texas. He lobbied to keep the TCATA program at Fort Hood instead of moving it to Fort Ord in California. Leath also made an unsuccessful, but highly touted, bid for the chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. Other major legislative priorities included agriculture, banking and finance, veterans affairs, oil, and social security reform. He did not seek re-election to the 11th District seat in 1990. After his retirement in 1991, Leath formed Marvin Leath Associates, a government consulting agency focused on the defense industry, based in Arlington, Virginia. In 1954, he married Alta Ruth Neill. Marvin and Alta have one son, Thomas, and separated in 1991. He remarried and later separated from a second wife, Penny. Leath also had a lifelong love of playing country music that started during his UT Austin days. He died December 8, 2000, at the age of 69 in Arlington Hospital. The visitors center at Fort Hood is named in his honor.
Administrative files include a large selection of office and contact files arranged under seven broad categories: 1. General, 2. Calendars and Directories, 3. Groups and Organizations, 4. Invitations, 5. Requests, 6. Schedules, 7. Finances, and 8. Employment. Material included ranges from 1975 to 1990. The General subseries includes administrative materials that do not fall into one of the six succeeding categories, including congressional administrative offices, letters of gratitude or condolence, and information regarding district and Washington offices. Interestingly, this also includes information regarding the Poage Library. Groups and Organizations comprises two alphabetically arranged sectionsDLone for groups and one for organizations, as distinguished by initial designations given by Leath’s staff. Groups include the Heritage Foundation, the Ku Klux Klan, and the U.S. Olympic Committee; Organizations include the Audubon Society, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Waco ISD. Typically, groups and organizations are non-governmental in nature, while government entities are arranged in their own series. Invitations and Schedules are each arranged chronologically by date. Requests demonstrates the broad variety of interests that constituents had in the workings of Congress and the wide variety of favors they requested. Finances includes weekly reports and expense vouchers for all of Leath’s Congressional finances, while Employment addresses requests regarding internships at Leath’s Congressional offices. Both subseries are in chronological order.
This smaller series reflects the broad array of government agencies that contacted Leath from 1978-1980. Typical entries include Amtrak, the EPA, and Texas Department of Agriculture. This series is arranged alphabetically.
This lengthy series spanning 1979-1990 includes five subseries: 1. General, 2. Incoming, 3. Outgoing, 4. Replies, and 5. Master Directory. The first and third subseries are in chronological order while the others reflect alphabetic arrangement. Additionally, the Replies subseries is topically arranged. The bulk of this series consists of letters to and from constituents and other members of Congress. The Master Directory subseries is missing correspondence from names beginning G-I.
Departments, Boards, and Commissions is split into two sections; the moderately-sized departmental subseries followed by a shorter section dedicated to Boards and Commissions. Typical departments include the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, and the Department of the Treasury, while Boards and Commissions include the Brazos River Authority, the Commission on Civil Rights, and the Smithsonian Institution. The materials almost exclusively cover the period from 1979 to 1981 and are arranged alphabetically. Leath's rural background, agriculture-heavy district, and the agricultural focus of his Congressional predecessor, W.R. Poage, point to his significant dealings with the Department of Agriculture. Additionally, Leath consistently worked to expand America’s national defense and military capabilities. One of his famous claims was that he returned money from his congressional stipend to the U.S. Treasury each year.
This small series houses Executive Branch materials from 1979-1987 which cover White House tours and press releases. Also included are items related to Reagan’s economic proposals and personal letters to Marvin Leath.
The extensive Legislative section includes three subseries: 1. general legislative documents arranged alphabetically by topic; 2. Leath-authored bills from 1979-1981; and 3. Congressional bills of note from the 96th, 97th, 98th, 99th, 100th, and 101st Congresses. The second and third subseries are subdivided by Congress. Of interest in this section are the folders on the House Armed Services Committee Chairmanship and the Veterans Affairs materials, which highlight two of Leath’s largest legislative priorities. Additionally, a substantial cadre of bills against desecration of the American flag affords a fascinating perspective on Leath’s views on patriotism. Heavy sampling occurred in subseries 2 and subseries 3, sub-subseries’ 5-6 while moderate sampling happened in subseries 3, sub-subseries’ 1-4. Many folders with duplicate bills or bills with no connection to Leath were omitted or consolidated in subseries’ 2-3.
This large and comprehensive series includes seven subseries: Audio Tape Transcripts, Newsletters, Newsletter Comments, Newsletter Drafts, Newspaper Clippings, Press Releases and Mailings, and Speeches and Radio Scripts from 1979-1990. Leath was famous for his well-written and insightful newsletters replete with catchy and clever titles. Also of interest is Leath’s endorsement speech of Chet Edwards (who succeeded Leath as the district’s representative). Audio tape transcripts are based on audio recordings of his newsletters (recordings are in the A/V series). The mailings subseries includes special mailings and postal patron mailings sent out by Leath. Moreover, the Newsletter Drafts subseries contains his handwritten drafts while the Newsletters section holds the final printed versions. Within the series, the first five and the seventh series are chronologically arranged by year but the sixth (Press Releases and Mailings) is alpha-ordered. In the Newsletter subseries, many duplicate files were deaccessioned. Radio scripts numbers 1-49 are missing in the subseries of the same name.
The smallest series in this extensive collection, Trips highlights Leath’s vital trips back to his district, including frequent stops at Fort Hood. This series is arranged by date and covers the years 1979-1990.
Voting Records, a tiny series, covers Leath’s personal voting record on all bills from 1979-1989, including descriptions of bills and eventual status of bill. It is chronologically ordered by year.
The small A/V series consists of two subseries: Photographs and Radio Tapes. Portraits of other Congressmen, photos of Leath from Congressional and district events, and award dinners make up most of the alpha-ordered Photographs subseries. Audio tapes of Leath newsletters, two to a folder (their transcripts are in the Press series), comprise the Radio Tapes subseries. The Audio tapes subseries is in chronological order by date. Most of the photographs in this series were sampled and moved from the Press subseries. Physical radio tapes from July 1980-January 1981, August-September 1981, March-April 1982, August-December 1982, and March 1983-March 1988 are missing.
As the final series in the collection, Oversize Items and Awards holds physical objects of honors bestowed upon Leath as well as oversized framed photographs. Items of note include Leath’s 1954 diploma from the University of Texas, photographs of county courthouses from his area, and several “Watchdogs of the Treasury Awards.” Other items include plaques, appreciation, service, and merit awards, and framed delegation photographs from throughout his tenure until shortly after in 1994. This series is in no particular order but organized based upon the size and shape of objects and how they fit into storage containers.
Gus Russo, investigative journalist, author, and musician, was born in Baltimore, Maryland. He attended Mount St. Joseph High School. Although known for his research of the Kennedy assassination, music was his first passion. Russo explains, “I love to read, but I never thought I’d be a writer. But when you think about it, writing is very much like music: it’s all about the rhythm, the dynamics, the feeling - it’s all about flow. I spent my whole life as a musician. I guess that translates.” Russo keeps up both interests, boasting a successful writing career in which he published 6 nonfiction books, and as professional musician/producer. As a young man he was active politically, opposing the Vietnam War and working for Robert Kennedy in the 1968 Presidential Campaign. His interest in the Kennedy assassination began at an early age. Russo describes his memories of the assassination: “I was in the hallway before 8th period, Mr. Hall’s biology class. Just going down the hall and there was a whisper, ‘Did you hear? Kennedy’s been shot.’ELWe went to our homeroom and then the announcement came that he was dead. A room full of boys and half of them were crying.” Thirty years later, Russo was one of two leading reporters on the documentary Where Were You? features the stories of everyday Americans and their recollections of November 22, 1963. With only four weeks to prepare, Russo explained, “It’s really tough to do something like this in a very short period of time. With any of these [documentary] shows, you film people for an hour and you use about eight seconds. It’s frustrating having an hour of great material whittled down to a few seconds, especially something as emotional as this.” To do the project justice, a companion guide to feature the full interviews would be published. The program aired on NBC on November 22, 2013.
Caso March was born March 9, 1911, in Saginaw, Texas. He was a graduate of North Side High School in Fort Worth, Texas, and completed bachelors, masters, and law degrees at Baylor University in Waco, Texas. After graduating from Baylor, March was employed by the Federal Power Commission in Washington, DC from 1934-1942. While in Washington, March earned an additional master’s of law and doctorate in judicial science at the American University and National University, respectively. In 1942, March enlisted in the Army during World War II. He served as an infantry officer, primarily in Southeast Asia. After his service, March and his family moved to Waco. During this time March began work as a faculty member in the Baylor School of Law and completed his first campaign for governor of Texas. Caso March was a perpetual candidate for Texas Governor. He ran unsuccessfully in 1946, 1948, and 1950, once using the slogan “For every man, a tax-free home.” Prior to the 1950 election, he resigned his post at Baylor to pursue the campaign full time. Without a win, March returned to a career as an attorney for the National Labor Relations Board.
Caso March was married to the former Hattie Mae Yelvington and had two children, Ben and Ann.
The Campaigns series documents the three gubernatorial races in which Caso March took part; 1946, 1948, and 1950. The series is divided into three subseries: General, Speeches, and Other Politicians. Materials include campaign advertisements, speeches given by or on behalf of March, and items related to politicians March spoke for or ran against. This series is dated 1931-1950, and is in good condition. The General subseries documents March’s races and includes brochures, newsletters, stationery, signs, expense reports, and various campaign records. Dated 1938-1950, this subseries is arranged chronologically. The Speeches subseries is dated 1946-1950, and arranged chronologically. Transcripts from all three campaigns are present, including radio addresses, stump speeches, and press releases. March ran on the platform of fewer taxes which is the main topic of most speeches. The Other Politicians subseries focuses less on Caso March and more on his opponents, which included Beauford Jester, Jerry Saddler, Grover Sellers, and John Lee Smith. Materials from State Attorney General Price Daniel and Preston Weatherbed are also present. Notably, March was an active orator while attending Baylor. In 1934, he gave endorsement speeches on behalf of Tom Hunter who was opposing Ross Shaw Sterling. Materials include news clippings, advertisements, flyers, mailing lists, and speeches. This subseries is arranged chronologically from 1931-1950.
The Correspondence series is dated 1936-1950. Included are general correspondence with several politicians, representatives, and congressmen addressing March’s search for a legal position in Washington, D.C. Also included is personal correspondence with the Democratic Party, Tom Hunter, and others during his campaigns. Notable names within this series are Tom Hunter, Olin “Tiger” Teague, and Cyclone Davis. This series is in good condition.
The Federal Power Commission (FPC) Series is dated 1924-1942, and covers the time Caso March was employed by the FPC as an attorney in Washington, D.C. from 1934-1942. During this time March produced correspondence, collected news clippings and newsletters, and created notes and official documents. Many of his dealings were with the Niagara Falls Power Company and his case to prove it constituted a monopoly. This series is in good condition. The Correspondence subseries consists of letters of recommendation from members of Congress in support of March’s application as attorney at the Federal Power Commission. Also included are notifications received while employed and other general correspondence. This subseries is dated 1934-1942. The Newsletters and News clippings subseries documents relevant issues to the Commission during March’s tenure.
The clippings and newsletters refer to March’s role in the Niagara Falls Power Hearing. Also included is a scrapbook with additional clippings and references to a chart created by March which became highly controversial. A research copy has been made of the scrapbook. This subseries is dated 1939-1941. The Notes and Official Documents series includes work related notes and meeting agendas during March’s time at the Federal Power Commission. Also included are copies of a chart created by March in attempts to describe the Niagara Falls Power Commission as a monopoly.
This subseries is dated 1935-1946.
The Personal series documents different stages of Caso March’s life. This series is divided into five subseries: General, Clippings, Correspondence, Education, and Photographs and Scrapbooks. Items present include biographical materials, Boy Scout papers, family correspondence, organizational handouts, class notes, military records, news clippings, and photographs. The series is dated 1920-1985, arranged chronologically with each subseries, and in good condition. The General subseries is dated 1927-1985, and includes biographical materials, obituaries, Boy Scout and Military Records, newsletters, personal notes including business cards and contact information, and reproduction monetary notes. This subseries is arranged chronologically. The Clippings subseries is dated 1942-1950, and covers a variety of topics including March’s campaigns. Also mentioned is the visit by President Harry S Truman to Waco. In a previous inventory, several newspapers documenting this occasion were present. However, due to their condition, the papers have been removed from the physical collection and reside online at: digitalcollections. baylor. edu. The Correspondence subseries is dated 1920-1940. Items include letters from Caso March to his wife Hattie Mae. These take place prior to their marriage, during his military service, while in Washington, D.C., and while campaigning. Also included are letters to and from extended family. This subseries is organized chronologically. The Education subseries documents March’s time both as a student and professor. Early materials, such as handbooks and rosters, are representative of his time in high school. Class notes, organizational items, and small memorabilia note his participation while attending Baylor. Also included are examinations, handbooks, and notes from his time as a Baylor Law professor. This subseries is organized chronologically from 1927-1949. The Photographs and Scrapbooks subseries holds general postcards, illustrations, and photographs. Also included is a political cartoons scrapbook from March’s childhood as well as a scrapbook with certificates and awards earned as an adolescent. A research copy has been created for this scrapbook. The subseries is dated 1924-1932, however most items are undated. It is arranged chronologically and in average condition.
The Audio-Visual series is dated 1948, during March’s second campaign for Governor. These vinyl records contain audio files of March speaking on several occasions. One of the records includes an introduction by Pat Neff. These are in average condition.
John Vernard Dowdy was born in Waco, McLennan County, Texas, on February 11, 1912. He spent his early years in Rusk, Texas, and graduated from high school in Henderson, Texas, in 1928. He attended the College of Marshall (now East Texas Baptist University) from 1929 to 1931. In the spring of 1932, Dowdy began working in a law office at Center, Texas, as a secretary, and in August became the official court reporter of the newly established 123rd Judicial District of Texas. From January 1, 1937, to January 1, 1945, he served as court reporter of the 3rd Judicial District in Athens, Texas. During this time he was admitted to the bar and began practicing law in 1940. Dowdy was elected District Attorney of the 3rd Judicial District in 1944, took office on January 1, 1945, and served eight years until his election to Congress in 1952. Dowdy was elected as a Democrat to the 82nd Congress to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Tom Pickett. In the House, he served on the House Administration Committee and the Post Office and Civil Service Committee, serving as chairman of the Postal Operations Subcommittee in 1955 and 1956. He later served on the Judiciary and District of Columbia committees. As a member of the Judiciary Committee, he authored legislation for protecting National Defense facilities; amended criminal laws to embrace air piracy; empowered postal authorities to police the mail; and proposed reforms in the control of obscene, pornographic, and subversive literature. Dowdy was elected to ten Congresses serving from September 23, 1952, to January 3, 1973. However, his years of service were not without controversy. On March 31, 1970, he was indicted by a federal grand jury in Baltimore, Maryland, on charges of conspiracy, perjury, and promoting bribery. The indictment charged that Dowdy allegedly accepted a $25,000 bribe on September 22, 1965, to intervene in a federal investigation of Monarch Construction Company of Silver Springs, Maryland. Consequently, Dowdy was arraigned on the indictments on April 10, 1970. The trial began November 8, 1971, and he was convicted on December 30, 1971. Subsequently, he announced his retirement from Congress on January 18, 1972, and began a six-month prison sentence on January 18, 1974. In documents donated by the Dowdy family following John's death in 1995, tapes, correspondence, and trial transcripts indicate that Dowdy may have been set up by those who opposed his conservative stance to urban renewal. These extensive documents are open to researchers.
The Administrative series contains correspondence with requests, invitations, congratulations, and condolences. Material chronicles Dowdy’s visits to the counties he represented as well as his voting record. Alpha files round out the General subseries. The Post Offices subseries is organized by city and county, then year. News clippings, newsletters, news releases, and radio and television broadcast scripts make up the Press/Media subseries. Dowdy’s work on rivers within his district, especially the Trinity River, make up the bulk of the Projects subseries. The State of Texas subseries contains correspondence and subject files on education, employment, public welfare, and redistricting.
Every congressional collection contains numerous files from government agencies and commissions. Dowdy’s papers are no exception, but he personally seems to have had no particular involvement in any of them. These files contain general information a congressman would receive from federal offices. Also included are several folders under Executive Offices of the President. Publications which were not substantial enough to be removed for cataloging are listed not only in this section but throughout the finding aid. These files are organized alphabetically by agency or commission name.
During his twenty years of service, Dowdy took his committee assignments seriously. He served for four years on the Post Office and Civil Service Committee and then sixteen years on the Judiciary Committee and its District of Columbia Sub-committee. He eventually became Chairman of this subcommittee, spearheading an investigation into corruption of urban renewal projects in Washington, DC. This section is divided into twenty-one committee subseries. Over half of these materials, however, deal with only four committees: District of Columbia, Education and Labor, Judiciary, and Ways and Means. The arrangement is alphabetical by committee or subcommittee and then chronological within the subseries.
This series is arranged in three subseries: General, Outgoing and Politicians. The majority of the series is outgoing mail from Dowdy in reply to his constituents. They demonstrate the number and variety of issues important to the people of the 11th District. The first two series are arranged chronologically, while the last is alphabetical by politician or VIP.
Department records reflect government issues and programs as they interface with Congress, the congressman, and his constituents. Considering that a large portion of Dowdy's constituents lived in rural areas of East Texas, there are 8.5 linear feet devoted to Agriculture. An equal number of files are devoted to Defense, also an important topic to East Texans. There are numerous smaller publications listed under Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW) and more substantial publications have been removed and cataloged. Other departments represented in this series include Commerce, Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Interior, Justice, Labor, Post Office, State, Transportation, and Treasury. Files are in alphabetical order by department and within each subseries.
The Legislative series is divided into 12 subseries consisting of General materials and items pertaining to each of the 11 Congresses in which Dowdy served. The 83rd through the 92nd Congresses subseries each have Sponsored Bills (by number) and Topical (alpha) section, although the 82nd has only Topical. These records contain correspondence and publications concerning legislative issues of general interest to constituents from Dowdy's 11th district. The first subseries is an alphabetical legislative subject file of outstanding issues from Aging and Animals to Wages and Welfare. The Urban Renewal files in this section contain letters from every state, as well as the District of Columbia, and deal mainly with scandals and overspending in local Urban Renewal projects.
This large series has been arranged into eight subseries: General, Court Reporter, Legal, Media, Opinion Ballots & Questionnaires, Political, Publications, and Speeches. The General subseries includes 3-D items, appointment calendars and guest registers from his congressional office, articles, awards, biographical information, personal correspondence, family information and correspondence, Presidential invitations, programs, and a large set of Bible Study index cards centered on the New Testament. Correspondence begins as early as 1930 when Dowdy was in college. One file contains correspondence following the death of Dowdy's first wife in 1943. Dowdy kept all of the condolence and flower cards from this sad occasion, and these items were included in the papers given to the BCPM following his death. A sampling of these have been retained. The Dowdy family files include letters from his children, Carol Sue and Skip (John Jr.), from the time they could write. Dowdy's second wife, known simply by her initials, J.D., was also politically active both before and throughout their marriage. The Personal files document their relationship from the 1940's until her death in 1992. There are invitations to the Eisenhower, Johnson, and Nixon inaugurations as well as invitations from the President and First Lady dating from 1953 to the Reagans in 1984. The first subseries begins with Dowdy's non-elective job as a Court Reporter and contains transcripts from court cases both typed or in shorthand from as early as 1926. The next subseries has been designated Legal, although it is unclear what Dowdy's criteria was for placing files under this designation. Each file is numbered beginning in 1935, and includes personal as well as legal records. There are tax records, divorce proceedings, murder trial cases, bill collection files, insurance papers, how-to-raise-chickens booklets, and wills. The original order and numbers have been retained. These numbered files end in 1952 when Dowdy was elected to Congress. Dowdy's career spanned a time of technological revolution in the media industry. His media materials begin with 3" reel-to-reel tapes, 12" vinyl records, and 16 mm film, but ends with cassettes and video tapes. Some of the material has been digitized and captured on DVD and made into mp3 files. Materials are arranged by format: audio, video, and photographs. As a U. S. Representative, Dowdy had to run for election every two years. The Political subseries documents Dowdy's campaigns for Congress from his first in 1952 to his last in 1970 after he was indicted. Correspondence with individuals and organizations in the district are filed alphabetically by county within each campaign. This section is supplemented with campaign ads and campaign expense records along with letters of support and congratulations. The Questionnaires and Opinion Ballots subseries contains surveys returned by constituents and other completed by Dowdy for the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). The Publications subseries contains material from various conservative organizations which were supportive of Dowdy’s legal troubles with the government. Many of these saw Dowdy as a hero and victim of a corrupt government. Foremost among these was Liberty Lobby. Some other groups include Americans for Constitutional Action, Committee to Restore the Constitution, Defenders of the American Constitution, John Birch Society, and Texas Committee for the Constitution. The Speeches subseries begins in 1942, three years prior to his election as local District Attorney, and end in 1986, fourteen years after he retired from Congress. Most of them were given at special events or before service organizations such as Kiwanis or Lion's Clubs. House floor speeches/remarks are also included here. His thematic materials centered around law and order, God and country, and government corruption such as in the urban renewal scandal. Following the dated speeches are approximately sixty undated speeches and speech research. This series is in good condition.
On March 31, 1970, Dowdy was indicted by a federal grand jury in Baltimore, Maryland on charges of conspiracy, perjury, and promoting bribery. The government alleged that on September 22, 1965, Dowdy accepted $25,000 as a bribe to intervene in the federal investigation of Monarch Construction Company of Silver Springs, Maryland. On April 10, 1970, Dowdy was arraigned on the indictment. In spite of the government case, Dowdy was elected to his tenth term in November 1970. The trial began on November 8, 1971, and on December 30, 1971, Dowdy was convicted on two counts of conspiracy, one count of transporting a bribe over state lines, and five counts of perjury. In 1973, however, the Fourth U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, overturned the bribery and conspiracy convictions. The Statement to the House in 1972 following his conviction. Also found here are tapes and telephone transcripts of Dowdy talking to the men who testified against him reportedly admitting to Dowdy that he never did anything wrong. This series is in good condition.
Bob L. “Bobby” Thomas was born in Hill County, Texas on February 27, 1937, and moved to Waco, Texas in 1941. At fifteen years old, Thomas showed promise as a track athlete, winning several awards. However, at that same age he contracted Polio which affected his legs and surrendered his life to a wheelchair. This disability did not deter him. He was a 1955 graduate of Waco High School, completed a BBA in Accounting at Baylor University in 1958, and graduated first in his class from Baylor Law School in 1960. He began his law practice in Waco during 1961, working in tax law as well as general law. From 1967-1970, Thomas served as a state legislator in addition to his law practice. He ceased both when he was elected as County Judge of McLennan County. He served in this position until 1982, when he became a Justice of the Tenth Court of Appeals. Bob Thomas was active in his community as well as his profession. He was twice awarded by the Jaycees as an “Outstanding Young Man of Texas” and honored as Texas “Disabled Person of the Year.” Thomas was also a member of the Task Force to revise the Texas Mental Health Code and a consultant to the Commissioner of Texas Rehabilitation Commission, both of which were appointed positions. In 1989, Thomas was appointed Chief Justice of the Tenth Court of Appeals where he served until his death, February 21, 1996.
The Personal series is divided into two subseries, General and Notes. The General subseries, dated 1952-1996, includes clippings, biographical information, and correspondence. Several of the clippings are obituaries or tributes to Judge Thomas upon his death. The Notes subseries, dated 1993-1994, is comprised of handwritten notes and research materials most likely used by Thomas when preparing court opinions. The General subseries is arranged chronologically while the Notes subseries is arranged alphabetically. This series is in good condition.
The Court Opinions series, dated 1982-1996, covers the expanse of Judge Thomas’ time as Justice of the Tenth Court of Appeals in McLennan County, Texas. This subseries is arranged chronologically by month and year in two subseries, Civil Trials and Criminal Trials. Detailed information including court names, locations, individuals, and trial numbers can be found using the PDF files attached to each subseries. A chart detailing the abbreviations used for each court can be found at the series level. This series is in good condition.
Ernest Ray Kirkpatrick was born in Trenton, Fannin County, Texas, on July 9, 1922. He was a graduate of Trenton High School in 1940, and served in the United States Army from 1942-1945. His tour of duty included stops in Italy, France, and North Africa. After his return home, Ray Kirkpatrick, a Democrat, was elected to represent the 41st District in the Texas House of Representatives. He represented this district during the 50th, 51st, and 52nd Legislatures from 1947 to 1952. Kirkpatrick served on several committees, including Contingent Expenses, Federal Relations, and Military and Veterans Affairs. He was also a member of the Appropriations Committee and appointed Chairman, a record-setting accomplishment reached at the age of 26. Ray Kirkpatrick graduated from the Baylor School of Law in 1958, and held a private practice until 1963 when he joined the State Board of Insurance. He was active with the Masons, American Legion, and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Kirkpatrick died on November 3, 1998.
The Certificates series contains documents related to Ray Kirkpatrick’s involvement in several state and local organizations from 1939-1984. Notable groups bestowing honors include the State Board of Insurance, Baylor Alumni Association, the Texas Legislature, and the Masons. His work on the Texas Civil War Centennial and participation in the Acacia and Rho Gamma Sigma fraternities is also recognized, as well as his appointments as Admiral of the Texas Navy and Commodore of the Brazos. This series is arranged chronologically and is in good condition.
The News Clippings and Scrapbook series is dated 1946-1953, and contains clippings from Ray Kirkpatrick’s tenure in the Texas Legislature. Due to the condition of the original Issues scrapbook, a research copy has been created and retained. A second scrapbook will be digitized and made available as part of the library digital collections. This series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Photographs series is dated 1943-1997, and includes personal photographs as well as those acquired while on duty for the Texas Legislature. Several military photographs can be found along with autographed photos from Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House Gib Lewis, and others. Kirkpatrick’s time with the State Board on Insurance is documented as well. This series is arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Topical series is dated 1943-2000, and includes pamphlets, membership cards, correspondence, military, personal, and legislative papers. Correspondence includes personal letters, constituent letters, and Dear Colleague letters. Military papers are from Kirkpatrick’s time in the Army as well as in the National Guard. This series is arranged alphabetically by topic and is in good condition.
Charles W. Barrow was born September 22, 1921, in Poteet, Texas. He spent his youth in Atascosa, primarily in Jourdanton. Barrow graduated from the Baylor University School of Law in 1943 after which he joined the US Navy during World War II. He was active in the Pacific and European theaters, notably during the Normandy invasion, and earned seven battle stars. Barrow also served during the Korean War, retired as Captain, then continued to serve in the Navy Reserves until 1976. In 1945, Barrow began practicing law in San Antonio, Texas, and by 1959, became a District Judge of the 45th Judicial District Court. Judge Barrow was appointed to the 4th Court of Civil Appeals in 1962, to fill the unexpired term left by the death of his father, Judge Hunter Barrow. In 1967, Charles Barrow was elected to the 4th Court of Civil Appeals and served in the position until 1977, the year he was appointed to the Texas Supreme Court. Judge Barrow was twice elected to the Supreme Court, once in 1978, and again in 1982. While serving as Justice, Barrow received several accolades, including the Distinguished Jurist Gavel Award from the St. Mary’s University School of Law in 1978, the Greenhill Judicial Award from the Texas Municipal Courts Association in 1979, and the Distinguished Alumni award given by his alma mater, Baylor University, in 1982. Justice Barrow resigned his position on the Texas Supreme Court to fill the post as Dean of the Baylor School of Law.
He served in this capacity from 1984-1991. In 1991, he returned on a part-time basis as a Senior District Judge in San Antonio until his retirement in 1996. Barrow was widely regarded as a hard worker, evidenced by his 700+ written court opinions. Charles W. Barrow passed on June 25, 2006.
Charles Barrow was married to the former Sugie Williams. They had four sons, Charles Wallace (Wally), Jr., John Douglas, David Williams, and James Hunter.
The Personal series is dated 1941-2006 and includes three subseries: General, Campaigns, and Certificates and Awards. The General subseries includes military records, event programs, items related to Barrow’s tenure as Dean of the Baylor University School of Law, and memorials for his son, Wally. Newspaper clippings are also included. The Campaigns subseries includes items related to Judge Barrow’s run for the Texas Supreme Court. Publicity materials, correspondence, and newspaper clippings are present. Clippings may be of interest as they highlight Barrow’s opponents Woodrow Wilson Bean and the controversial Don Yarbrough. The Certificates and Awards subseries includes items of recognition, guest speaker certificates, and items related to Barrow’s time at Baylor. Baylor items include undergraduate diplomas, faculty certificates, distinguished Alumni awards, and golden anniversary diplomas for Barrow and his wife Sugie. Each subseries is arranged chronologically and the series is in good condition.
The Photographs and Scrapbooks series is dated 1939-2003. This series is mostly personal in nature. It includes military photographs and early photos of Sugie, Barrow’s wife. Other photos include items from Charles Barrow’s tenure on the Texas Supreme Court, family events, and real estate photos from the house he occupied in Fort Faculty while Dean of the Baylor School of Law. Scrapbooks are also included. They document Barrow’s career from his first appointment as a judge in San Antonio and beyond. This series is ordered chronologically and in good condition.
The Texas Supreme Court series is dated 1960-1984. This series includes a personal memo book, two judicial yearbooks, and newsletters. The bulk of this series is memorandums concerning Applications for Writ of Error reviewed by Judge Barrow and other justices. Each session from 1977-1984, is represented and includes the following information: nature of the case, jurisdiction, facts, points of error, discussion, and disposition. This series is in chronological order and in good condition.
Sam Blakely Hall, Jr. was born in Marshall, Harrison County, Texas, on January 11, 1924. He graduated from Marshall High School in 1940 and obtained an Associate of Arts degree from the College of Marshall (now East Texas Baptist University) in 1942. He then began studying law at the University of Texas. As most young men did during the time, Hall joined the military and served in the Army Air Corps from 1943-1945. After his service, he enrolled in the Baylor School of Law and graduated in 1948. Soon after he began to practice in his hometown of Marshall, Texas and did so until 1976. In 1962 Sam Hall opposed Wright Patman in the Democratic primary to represent the 1st Congressional District but was defeated. Upon Patman’s death in 1976, Hall won a special election and began his tenure as a United States Congressional Representative. He attributed this, and five re-elections, to a strong standing in the local community. During the 94th Legislature Hall served on the Education and Labor Committee as well as the Science and Technology Committee. From the 95th to the 99th Legislatures he served on the Judiciary and Veteran’s Affairs Committees and the Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control. While on the Judiciary Committee he also served on subcommittees including Criminal Justice; Immigration, Refugees, and International Law; and Administrative Law and Governmental Relations which he chaired from 1982-1984. As a Congressman Hall traveled with several CODELS, or Congressional Delegations to international locales including Lebanon, Germany, France, and Southeast Asia. His travel corresponded with the work he was doing while on the Judiciary and Veterans’ Affairs Committees and the Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control. Representative Hall was a conservative Texas Democrat. As such, he was one of the founding members of the “Boll Weevils”, southern Democrats who often sided with Republicans on national issues. Hall was also a supporter of President Ronald Reagan and his economic plans. This relationship with the Reagan led to Hall’s appointment as a federal judge. In 1985 President Reagan nominated Sam Hall as United States District judge for the Eastern District of Texas. His continued interest in the law, and work on the House Judiciary Committee, kept Hall in contact with the skills needed as a judge. Hall was confirmed as District Judge May 3, 1985, which led to his resignation from the United States House of Representatives on May 27, 1985. He served in this capacity until his death, April 10, 1994. Sam Hall was married to the former Madeleine Segal and had three daughters: Becky, Amanda, and Sandra. The United States Courthouse and Federal Building in Marshall, Texas is named in his honor.
The Campaigns series has been divided into three subseries, Redistricting, Democrats, and Elections, and documents the elections in which Hall participated from 1976-1984. The Redistricting subseries contains correspondence, news clippings, and oversized maps related to the 1980 census and subsequent rearrangement of Hall’s congressional district. Materials show the potential losses and gains that could affect the elections. This subseries is arranged chronologically. The Democrats subseries is organized chronologically from 1980-1984. It houses reports from the Democratic Study Group (DSG), Whip Advisories, and items from the Democratic Caucus and Democratic National Committee. The Elections subseries is further divided by election year: 1976, 1978, 1980, 1982, and 1984. Each sub-subseries includes information on opponents, results, news clippings, campaign advertising, and correspondence.
The Committees series has five subseries: General, Judiciary Committee, Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control, Select Committees on Ethics, and Veterans Affairs Committee, dated 1964-1985. The General subseries holds committee and subcommittee materials collected by Hall’s office from 1982-1985. While Hall was not on most of these committees, their inclusion provides insight into the various interests of Hall while in Congress. This subseries is organized chronologically by topic. The Judiciary Committee, Select Committee on Narcotics and Abuse Control, Select Committee on Ethics, and Veterans Affairs Committees subseries are reflective of Congressman Hall’s committee work while in office. His membership from 1976-1985 was active and challenging as it presented significant and often controversial reform legislation. Hall’s work on the Judiciary Committee is further divided to document his time on the full committee as well as the Immigration Subcommittee, Criminal Justice Subcommittee, and Administrative Law and Governmental Relations subcommittee. Hall was chairman of the Administrative Law and Governmental Relations Subcommittee from 1983-1985. Items of note include criminal code reform (Criminal Justice Subcommittee, 1978-1981), immigration reform (also known as the Simpson-Mazzoli Bill, Immigration Subcommittee, 1981-85), and regulatory reform (Administration and Government Operation Subcommittee, 1983-1985).
The Constituent series is made of three subseries. The Alpha Files subseries contains general correspondence, subject files, and printed materials dated 1976-1985. These files are organized alphabetically by topic and year and include items from individuals such as former Texas Governor Mark White, as well as organizations, notably the Associated Milk Producers, Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, Young Conservatives of Texas, and the Committee for Survival of a Free Congress. Background materials on specific bills and general legislative topics are present and reflect Hall’s interests in areas outside his regular committee memberships. The Recognitions subseries contains correspondence by Congressman Hall to various constituents and colleagues. Contents include Congratulations, regrets, birthday, and anniversary greetings. Responses were sent via telegram or typed letter. Items are organized alphabetically by topic. Project Cards in this series were kept from 1976-1977. They were used by Sam Hall to track the progress of inquiries made by constituents in his district as well as across Texas and other states. The cards list the inquirer, subject matter, entity that needed to be contacted, responses, and any other ongoing correspondence. The subseries is in alphabetical order; first by county, then by state. Many of these files are of a personal nature, therefore they have been restricted. Please contact an archivist with further questions.
The District series, dated 1964-1986, is reflective of activities that took place in Congressman Hall’s home district. He maintained district offices in both Paris and Marshall, TX. This series contains material from both locations and is divided into three subseries, Correspondence, City and County Projects, and Publications. Correspondence is arranged chronologically by subject and reflects topics that were of importance in the district. The subseries is dated 1968-1986. Dates prior to 1976 are reflective of projects carried over from Hall’s predecessor, Wright Patman. Some files have been restricted due to their personal content; contact an archivist for further information. City and County Projects are arranged alphabetically by county, then further divided by city. These files are followed by requests from out of district, then out of state. The bulk of items are dated 1975-1985, but some requests appear as early as 1964 and are projects passed on from the tenure of Wright Patman. Publications is comprised of a student created magazine, Loblolly. This magazine contains oral histories collected and transcribed by students from Gary High School in Gary, Texas. Most stories cover the life and times of Panola County in the East Texas area. The magazines are ordered chronologically from 1974-1977.
The Events series provides a comprehensive outlook on the activities and engagements attended by Hall as a member of congress and as a private citizen from 1975-1985. Materials are arranged into three subseries: General, Administrative, and Invitations. General files feature background material, itineraries, and copies of speeches from various events Hall attended within his district and in Washington D.C. Hall was often the honored guest and/or speaker at these events. Administrative materials document Hall’s busy schedule. and include appointment books, guest books, speech files, and a Rolodex. Invitations dated 1976-1993 have been randomly sampled and retained as a representation of the types of invitations a member of Congress receives including the nomination hearings for the Supreme Court and presidential inaugurations. All subseries are arranged chronologically and in good condition.
The Executive files include campaign and inaugural materials for President Jimmy Carter as well as materials regarding conferences and international conflicts. The bulk of the materials cover President Ronald Reagan’s Economic Recovery Plan of 1981. Sam Hall received correspondence from his constituents for almost one year regarding the plan. Files are arranged chronologically 1976-1982 and are in good condition.
Judicial Files reflect two parts of Sam Hall’s career. The Appropriations subseries covers budget issues Hall dealt with as part of his committee work, while all other subseries, Cases, Opinions and Rulings, and Scripts, reflect his work as U.S. District Court Judge of the Eastern District of Texas. Items in this series are dated 1980-1994 and in good condition. Detailed information can be found prior to each subseries.
The Appropriations series is the contents of a binder labeled “The Judiciary, Justification for 1980 Appropriations Estimates.” It is the Congressional Submission for Fiscal Year 1980 Budget Estimates. Divider tabs have been retained signifying each part of the budget addressed; folders have been named according to these divisions. Folders are in original order and follow the table of contents.
Judge Hall presided over many different types of cases while on the bench. The Cases subseries is divided into four sub-subseries: Asbestos, Findings of Facts, Stay of Execution, and USA vs. Fredeman. These are all examples of the high-profile cases presided over by Hall while on the bench.
 The Asbestos sub-subseries holds reference materials collected for asbestos related cases filed in the Eastern District of Texas. These items are filed in reverse chronological order by date of original filing and are in good condition. The Findings of Facts sub-subseries is in the original order from which it was removed from a 3-ring binder. It is in good condition. The Stays of Execution sub-subseries follows the cases of two defendants, Davis Lee Holland and Maurice Andrews. Materials include motions, writs, summary judgments, and opinions written in relation to the cases. The items are dated 1991-1992, are in the original order from which they were removed from binders, and in good condition. The USA vs. Fredeman sub-subseries follows the case of W. F. Fredeman Jr. and includes defendant’s motions, summaries of indictments, scripts, and other materials. The sub-subseries is dated 1986-1990 and is in good condition.
The Opinions and Rulings subseries includes both opinions and mandamus for multiple cases presented to Judge Hall. Opinions are dated 1986-1994, and include rulings on cases appealed and cases in the process of appeal. Mandamus are dated 1990-1993. Both sub-subseries are in chronological order and in good condition.
The Scripts subseries is divided into two sub-subseries: General and Jury Charges and Verdict Forms. The General sub-subseries is dated 1985-1990 and contains scripts Judge Hall used during court proceedings. They cover the elements of a criminal hearing from opening to verdict as well as arraignments, pleas, and others. Definitions of terms are also present and arranged alphabetically by year. Jury Charges and Verdict forms are from multiple cases tried in the span 1983-1993. These forms were followed by Hall as he presented the charges to the jury and read verdicts prepared by the jury. These items were found in nine volumes of 3-ring binders and have been kept in the original order. The subseries is in good condition.
This Legislative series is comprised of six subseries: Appropriations, Bills, Correspondence, Dear Colleague, Programs Files, and Projects. Files are dated 1965-1985 and in good condition. Detailed information can be found prior to each subseries.
The Appropriations files come from binders labeled “Department of State, FY 1980 Appropriations.” These are the congressional estimates for salaries, expenses, and other appropriations. Original order of the binders has been kept according to tabbed dividers. Folders labeled “Language Change” clarify language used in the identified tab. All materials are dated 1980 and in good condition.
The Bills subseries is representative of bills sponsored or cosponsored by Representative Hall. There are also materials covering specific legislation considered by Hall including topics as the IRS, Social Security, Immigration, and Criminal Codes. Bills are listed by topic, followed by number when available. This subseries is arranged alphabetically by year from 1968-1985 and is in good condition.
The Correspondence subseries consists of constituent letters concerning general legislative issues. The original filing system, which arranged incoming mail according to categories assigned by staff, has been preserved. One copy of the office filing handbook is also included. Letters were assigned to a classification number, (e.g.., campaign reform was GD204) to facilitate responding and counting. Categories were apparently developed and assigned based on need, therefore the material is neither alphabetical nor chronological. Mass printed opinion mail, such as post cards, is also included. Only sample copies have been retained along with a count of number received. The subseries is dated 1978-1982, and in good condition.
The Dear Colleague subseries contains correspondence sent to Congressman Hall from fellow representatives. Material identified as “Dear Colleague” are more general in nature while others are identified by their topics. Items are usually requests for cosponsors, endorsements, and general consideration of legislation. The subseries is organized chronologically from 1976-1985 and in good condition.
The Program Files subseries contains daily Legislative Program agendas, Democratic Study Group (DSG) Report, the Whip Advisory, and special interest correspondence related to matters scheduled for debate. The subseries is arranged chronologically with each file representing one week from July 1978 to September 1985. The material is in good condition.
The Projects subseries dates 1965-1974, and includes files inherited from Hall’s predecessor, Wright Patman. Major projects include Cooper, Big Pine, and Cypress Reservoirs. News articles, correspondence, publications, and photographs can be found on these projects as well as the Red River Bridge, Northeast Texas Resource Conservation and Development Project, and the Texarkana Urban Transportation Study. This subseries is in good condition.
The Personal series includes items more personal in nature such as Christmas cards, event programs, certificates, and items relating to Sam Hall’s wife, Madeleine. Also included are magazines in which Hall is mentioned, biographical sketches, and copies of commentaries submitted for the biography Sam B. Hall, Jr.: Whatever is Right written by Jerry L. Summers. A draft copy of the book is also included. This series is arranged chronologically from 1976-2005 and in good condition.
The Press series is compiled of newsletters, press releases, radio transcripts, and speeches dated 1976-1985. Newsletters, Press releases, and Speeches are arranged by year while Radio Transcripts are arranged alphabetically by topic as they are not dated. Newsletters were sent out by Hall to constituents keeping them informed of his participation in Congress. They included updates on current issues and were also a means to notify those in his district of publications and other items that may be of interest. Letters are arranged by year then, where appropriate, followed by background materials and drafts by issue. Background and draft materials are only present for dates 1977-1980. Press Releases are arranged chronologically by two categories, General and White House. General releases were distributed by Sam Hall or his office as examples of his activities including committee work and travel among other topics. White House releases were distributed directly by the White House Press Office to share with press and constituents on the national level. Examples include several addresses by Ronald Reagan on the State of the Union and federal budget concerns. Sam Hall sent weekly “Congressional Reports” to his home district for broadcast over the radio on KADO, Texarkana, TX. Reports addressed topics relevant to the district ranging from Budgets to Social Security. These transcripts are not dated; therefore, they are arranged alphabetically by topic, not chronologically. Radio broadcasts of these reports were suspended in 1983. The Speeches subseries is dated 1977-1981. Although small, multiple topics are covered including Soviet nuclear power, Religion, and the Reagan budget. It should be noted that background information on topics is included in these files as well as copies of speeches given by others than Congressman Hall. Speeches are organized in chronological order.
As member of several committees, including the Judiciary, Veteran’s Affairs, and Select Committee on Narcotics and Abuse Control, Sam Hall made trips to several countries throughout the world from 1978-1984. Notably, he visited Southeast Asia on two occasions, as well as France, Germany, and Lebanon among others. The following files include correspondence, printed materials, clippings, background and briefing materials, interviews, and itineraries collected before, during, and after the trip. Trip items are arranged alphabetically by destination, then chronologically.
As a native of Marshall, TX, Sam Hall was a hometown man elected into office. Hall’s intimate knowledge of the district he represented allowed him to appropriately align his votes, which leaned to the conservative side, in Congress. Congressman Hall’s voting record is arranged chronologically by Congress meeting, then by session.
The Audio-Visual series is divided into three subseries: Cassette Tapes, Reel to Reel, and Video Recordings, dated 1962-1985. Many of the recordings are of weekly radio messages sent for broadcast in Hall’s home district while others are from social functions attended, sermons, speeches, and interviews. Some items are listed with length and “Hall #’s” which were assigned by Hall and his staff. It should be noted that numbers often correspond between cassettes and reels. Video recordings appear on three media types, VHS, VCR, and Beta. All items are listed chronologically and the series is in good condition.
Photographs, Albums, and Scrapbooks includes items added to the collection in 2013. The Photographs subseries is arranged alphabetically. Included items are from events, constituent visits, delegation photographs, and photos of other congress members that were taken between 1976-1989. Notable photos include those with Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, W. R. “Bob” Poage, and photos taken with constituents outside the capitol building. This subseries is in good condition. The Albums and Scrapbooks subseries is arranged into 15 three-ring binder boxes. They are arranged alphabetically by topic and dated 1976-2001. Each box holds one or more albums or scrapbooks in plastic sleeves. Items include photographs, clippings, small mementos, and name tags associated with various events, trips, and people. Folder titles reflect the general contents of each box while further description can be found within each box on the pages denoting each new album or scrapbook within. Two additional boxes contain four individual scrapbooks left intact. These books contain newspaper clippings and photographs. It is in good condition.
Wright Patman was born at Patman's Switch, Cass County, TX, on August 6, 1893. He graduated from Hughes Springs High School in 1912, and Cumberland University, Lebanon, TN, in 1916. He was assistant county attorney of Cass County from 1916-1917, when he joined the US Army as a private and machine-gun officer during World War I. Patman served in the Texas State House of Representatives from 1924-1929, when he was elected as a Democrat to the 71st Congress. He served the 1st Congressional District from 1929 until his death on March 4, 1976.
The Campaign series is comprised of one folder containing correspondence, 1972 election results by county, and Patman’s platform for the 1975 election. Although two pieces are from 1955 and 1962, the bulk of the items are from the 1970s. This series is in good condition.
The Correspondence series contains outgoing mail written to constituents after the death of Congressman Patman, explaining that their concerns would be passed on to his successor. This series is in good condition.
The Legislative series contains a listing, by Congress, of the bills introduced by Patman from the 71st to the 91st Congresses. The bill number, date of introduction, title, and all resolutions are included. This series is in good condition.
The Press series contains a general file with press releases, news clippings, and other information of interest to constituents. The newsletter file contains 92 of Patman’s “Weekly Letters” arranged chronologically. This series is in good condition.
Mattie Mae McKee, the daughter of Sarah Taylor McKee and John Thomas McKee, was born in Sonora, Texas, on November 26, 1938. Her uncle, Basil Halbert Taylor, employed her throughout the summers of her high school years in the Law Office of Taylor & Murphy in San Antonio, instilling within McKee a love of the legal profession. After graduating from San Angelo High School in 1957, McKee earned her Associate’s degree in Business at San Angelo Junior College in 1959. She worked as a legal secretary for the firm of Kerr & Gayer where she earned her certification with the National Association of Legal Secretaries in 1966. At the time, McKee was one of twelve Certified Professional Legal Secretaries in Texas and the ninety-sixth to be certified in the nation. Shortly thereafter, in March 1968, McKee entered the political arena as a congressional aide for Representative O.C. Fisher, a Democrat representing the 21st Congressional District of Texas. McKee worked for Representative Fisher until his decision to retire. In September 1974, McKee joined the staff of Representative W. R. Poage, a Democrat representing the 11th Congressional District of Texas. McKee remained as a member of Poage's staff until his decision to retire in December 1978. She then agreed to serve as the new Office Manager for Poage’s immediate successor, Democrat Marvin Leath. Under Leath, McKee faced the difficult task of establishing the office of a freshman Representative. In July 1980, McKee left the House of Representatives behind and became the Executive Secretary for Senator John Tower of Texas, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. McKee held this position until January 1985 when Tower retired. McKee then accepted the Executive Assistant position for Senator John Warner of Virginia, remaining with his staff until April 1989 when McKee decided to leave Washington, D.C. and return to San Angelo. After her lengthy career as a congressional aide, McKee earned a bachelor's degree in English and history at Angelo State University and worked briefly in the real estate field. She also pursued writing, co-authoring a two-volume history of her family, Shadow of the Greats: From Texas' Square Roots to Capitol Hill's Inner Circle. Series I. O.C. Fisher Years is one of the largest series in the collection and consists of clippings, photographs, correspondence, and other materials relating to Mattie McKee’s employment as a staff member for Representative O.C. Fisher. Fisher was a Democrat who represented the 21st Congressional District of Texas. McKee worked for Representative Fisher from March 1968 to September 1974. Materials relating to Fisher's membership on the House Armed Services Committee feature prominently in the series. The series is in good condition.
Series II. W. R. Poage Years is comprised of photographs, correspondence, programs, biographical materials, and other documents pertaining to Mattie McKee’s employment for U.S. Representative William Robert "Bob" Poage. Poage was a Democrat who represented the 11th Congressional District in Central Texas. McKee worked as his staff member from September 1974 to December 1978 at which time Representative Poage retired from public office. Overall, the materials in this series are in good condition.
Series III. Marvin Leath Years is the smallest series in the collection. Mattie McKee worked as the Office Manager for Representative Marvin Leath from January 1979 to June 1980. Leath represented the 11th Congressional District in Central Texas, succeeding long-time Representative W. R.
Poage. This series is comprised primarily of clippings and photographs from McKee's time in Leath's office and also includes a copy of Leath's obituary from 2000. The materials are in good condition.
Series IV. John Tower Years is the largest series in the collection. It is comprised of photographs, programs, correspondence, and other materials related to Mattie McKee’s employment as the Executive Secretary of Senator John Tower of Texas. McKee worked for Senator Tower from July 1980 until Tower’s retirement from the Senate in January 1985. Due to Tower’s service on the Senate Armed Services Committee, many of the materials in this series deal with the U.S. military (i.e. the commissioning of naval vessels, trips to West Point, Goodfellow Air Force Base, etc.). Tower’s nomination for Secretary of Defense under President George H. W. Bush, which was ultimately rejected by the Senate, is also prominently featured in the series. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Series V. John Warner Years consists of correspondence, photographs, programs, and other materials compiled during Mattie McKee’s employment as the Executive Assistant to Republican Senator John Warner of Virginia. McKee worked for Senator Warner from January 1985 to April 1989 at which point McKee left Washington, D.C. and returned to her home state of Texas. The materials in this series are in good condition.
Series VI. Personal consists primarily of materials Mattie McKee accumulated after leaving her career in Washington, D.C. in 1989. Personal correspondence, a disassembled scrapbook, and documents relating to her 2014 book, Inner Circle, feature prominently. Overall, this series is in good condition.
Donald G. Adams was born in 1938 in Jasper, Texas, to county judge T. Gilbert Adams and Dess Hart Adams. He attended Baylor University from 1957 to 1963, earning a Bachelor of Business Administration and a Bachelor of Laws. After his graduation, Adams took up legal practice in Lufkin for two years before returning to Jasper and forming a legal partnership with his father. Adams announced his candidacy for the Texas House of Representatives in 1968. After his nomination by the Democratic Party, Adams was elected unopposed. As the Representative from District 7, Adams represented Hardin, Jasper, Newton, and Tyler counties. During his time in the Texas House, Adams served on several committees including Agriculture, Counties, Criminal Law, Criminal Jurisprudence, Insurance, Mental Health and Mental Retardation, Motor Transportation, and Imported Fire Ant Infestation. Adams largely avoided the political fallout that accompanied the Sharpstown Bank scandal that ensnared Governor Preston Smith, Lieutenant Governor Ben Barnes, and House Speaker Gus Mutscher. In 1972, Adams announced his candidacy for the Texas Senate, District 3. Adams endured a slightly contentious primary battle with J.C. Stallings, a radio station owner from Nacogdoches who attempted to play up Adams’s connections to the ousted Mutscher and the Sharpstown scandal. Regardless, Adams received his party’s nomination and ran unopposed in the general election. Adams served in the Texas Senate from 1973 to 1977, representing Anderson, Angelina, Cherokee, Hardin, Henderson, Jasper, Kaufman, Nacogdoches, Newton, Panola, Rusk, Sabine, San Augustine, Shelby, and Tyler Counties. During his senatorial career, he was a member of the Administration, Finance, Intergovernmental Relations, and Jurisprudence Committees in addition to numerous subcommittees and temporary topical committees. In 1974, Adams served as a delegate to the Texas State Constitution Convention. In 1977, Adams was elected by the Senate as President Pro Tempore ad Interim for the 65th Legislature. In 1978, Adams resigned from his Senate seat to become Chief Legal Counsel for the Governor of Texas. He was appointed to the Texas Industrial Commission (TIC) in October of the same year, was elected TIC Chairman in 1979, and was appointed to a full six-year term on the Commission in 1983. Adams is also a member of various community organizations including Kiwanis Club, the Texas Bar Association, and Chamber of Commerce. Don and his wife, Linda Cullum Adams, have three children: Don Jr., Debra, and Dinah.
Series I. houses administrative material from Donald Adams, his campaigns, and his Texas House and Senate offices. The series is divided into three topics: District, Press, and General. This material includes various documents produced by Adams and his office to be circulated among his constituents and the press, as well as books and documents Adams collected to inform his political decision making. The District subseries contains documents relating to specific community issues within Adams’s senatorial district. Press contains press releases and directories.
General contains miscellaneous materials pertaining to Adams’s time in the legislature including Capitol brochures, Adams’s calendars, and general committee assignments. Within each topic the materials are organized further by loose topics. The series is in good condition.
Series II. contains materials related to and produced by Donald Adams's political campaigns. The series is split into two subseries based on the offices he campaigned for, State Representative and State Senator. The State Representative subseries includes correspondence related to the campaign, clippings, directories, and promotional materials. The State Senator subseries contains advertising correspondence, endorsement letters, campaign contributions, and papers related to the contentious 1972 Democratic Primary between Donald Adams and J.C. Stallings, a radio station owner from Nacogdoches. The materials within each subseries are organized by topic, and then alphabetically where appropriate. The series is in good condition.
Series III. Committees is a collection of materials produced by Adams’s committee assignments. It is divided into four subseries covering the four major committees Adams served on: the Administration Committee, Counties Committee, Intergovernmental Relations Committee, and Jurisprudence Committee. The materials are organized within each subseries by topic. The series includes correspondence between Adams and other members of the various committees, legislation referred to the committees, and material about the various issues raised during Adams's time on these four committees. Of particular note, the Administration Committee subseries contains information about Don Yarbrough’s impeachment from the State Supreme Court. Overall, this series is in good condition.
Series IV contains the correspondence sent to and from Donald Adams during his time in the Texas House and Texas Senate. Series IV is divided into two subseries, State Representative and State Senator. Within each subseries, the materials are sorted alphabetically by topic, then chronologically where appropriate. Adams' constituents sent him a large amount of correspondence, much of which he answered personally. This correspondence covered a wide variety of issues, including agriculture, education, public utilities, and the Equal Rights Amendment. Beyond legislative and political issues, Adams also received requests for help with various predicaments from his constituents, including difficulties receiving social security and insurance payouts, worker's compensation, parole, military leave, etc. Finally, Adams received invitations from different organizations, some of which asked him to deliver a speech. These invitations and Adams's replies are contained in this series, sorted chronologically by month. This series is in generally good condition, with a few faded but still legible documents.
Series V. Legislative contains copies of bills from Adams’s time in the Texas Legislature as well as correspondence and other documents related to various bills. The series is divided into five subseries, one for each session of the Texas legislature in which Adams served. Each subseries is divided between legislation introduced or cosponsored by Adams during the session and other legislation from the session. These divisions are sorted by bill numbers if they are identified and by loose topics when a specific bill is not the folder topic. Among the major legislative issues covered during Adams’s tenure are the reform of volunteer firefighters’ pension programs, the overhauling of Texas’s family and criminal justice codes, and the reconstruction of the Texas State Constitution (for which Adams served as a delegate). The series is in good condition.
Series VI. Personal contains various information related to Adams's private life rather than his career of public service. The series is divided into four loose topics, around which the materials are organized. The General topic set includes financial dealings, personal correspondence, and information on Adams's published book "How a Bill Becomes a Law". The Legal Proceedings topic set contains material related to Adams's legal career and case files from his law firm. The Political Figures topic set consists of subject files Adams collected concerning major political figures such as John Dowdy, John Hannah, and Charles Wilson. Lastly, the Speeches topic set contains speech transcripts and outlines from speaking engagements during Adams's tenure as a State Representative from 1967 to 1970. Overall, this series is in good condition.
Gordon Schendel, a native of Minnesota, graduated from the University of Minnesota and began a career in writing and journalism starting in 1946. While working in New York City, he met a magazine artist named Margaret Waltz. The couple married and had 5 children: Cynthia, William, Eric, Amy, and Jenny. After living on the east coast for several years, the Schendel family moved to Mexico where they remained for 11 years. During that time, Gordon worked for “The Medical Tribune” and “The Medical World News.” It was during their stay in Mexico that the Schendels became engrossed with the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Gordon and Margaret, who often served as a fellow researcher and editor for her husband, accumulated clippings and books on the Kennedy assassination, the bulk of which now shapes the collection here at Poage Library. Despite his intentions, Gordon was never able to use his research and complete a book on the topic. Gordon Schendel did, however, write several books during his career including “Jungle Wife,” — which recounted the life of an Estonian jaguar hunter and his American wife during their stay in Brazil; “The Higher They Go,” — a biography of former New York City mayor William O’Dwyer; and “Medicine in Mexico: From Aztec Herbs to Betatrons.”In 1965, the Schendels moved to McAllen, Texas, where Gordon joined the editorial staff of the local newspaper, the “Valley Evening Monitor.” After the passing of her parents, the Schendels’ daughter, Cynthia, donated the collection in August 2013.
Series I. Clippings is comprised of three folders. The first is a folder of general clippings relating to President John F. Kennedy's assassination. The second folder contains an article written by Gordon Schendel concerning his experiences in the town of San Miguel de Allende, Mexico. The third and final folder holds an article written about Gordon Schendel when he accepted an editorial position for McAllen, Texas's newspaper, the "Valley Evening Monitor." This folder is particularly helpful as it contains biographical information on Gordon Schendel. Overall, these materials are in good condition. Most of the clippings have been photocopied onto acid-free paper.
Series II. Notes, the largest series in the collection, contains research materials that Gordon and Margaret Schendel collected concerning the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The folders are organized alphabetically by topic. Most subjects are individuals who were involved in the assassination - including Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby - or in the investigation afterwards (i. e. the Warren Commission). The materials in this series are in average condition.
Loretta Dunbar was a 32-year old housewife and resident of Dallas, Texas in November 1963. She watched President John F. Kennedy’s arrival on television as well as his subsequent assassination. Dunbar documented her experience concerning the assassination of President Kennedy in her journal. In the 1950's, both Dunbar and her husband, Dr. Robert B. Brunken, worked at Parkland Hospital in Dallas, Texas. Dunbar worked as the secretary to the Director of Nursing as well as secretary to the Professor of Surgery. Dunbar and her husband were friends with Dr. Pepper Jenkins, the anesthesiologist who pronounced President John F. Kennedy dead. The essay from Dunbar's journal expresses the significant grief she experienced at Kennedy's death and how she and the people around her responded to such a devastating tragedy.
Waco was the site of Texas's first Democratic Convention in 1857. Since 1873, Waco Democrats have served in influential positions throughout state and national politics. The party maintained dominance in the local area for much of the twentieth century. After Dr. Walter William resigned as McLennan County Democratic Chairman in 1979, the Executive Committee appointed Gene Evans to serve the remainder of William's term until 1980. Evans ultimately served as Chair until the fall of 1988 when his term expired. After his tenure, Evans donated various party records to the W. R.
Poage Legislative Library. Four of the most significant changes that impacted the McLennan County Democratic Party while Evans was chair were the discontinuation of voting by paper ballot, the election of the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, redistricting, and presidential primaries. It is noteworthy that McLennan County was one of the last Texas counties to discontinue the use of a paper ballot.
Series I contains correspondence, meeting minutes, propositions, resolutions, charts, lists, and election results pertaining to the Executive Committee of the McLennan County Democratic Party. Most folders deal directly with the Democratic primaries held in the 1970's, although the minutes for the committee stretch as far back as the early 1920's. The materials are in average condition.
Series II. Election Materials contains ballot counts, applications for a place on the ballot, precinct information, lists of candidates, and lists of registered voters. Most of the materials relate to Democratic primaries from the 1970's, though some folders do address statewide politics. The series is in average condition.
Series III. Financial Records contains expense accounts, financial reports, receipts, ledgers, and recommendations. Most of the materials relate directly to Democratic primaries held during the 1970's. The series also has a ledger dating back to the mid-1930's. The materials that comprise this series are in average condition.
Series IV. Subject Files contains several files arranged by subject. The material covers a wide range of topics including Billy Goldberg, Gene Evans, Lyndon B. Johnson, party leadership, and the two hundredth anniversary of the McClennan County Democratic Party. Overall, this series is in average condition.
Allen Dwain Place, Jr. was born on September 22, 1955, in Gatesville, Texas. He graduated from Baylor University with a bachelor's in Business Administration in 1977, and a Juris Doctorate in 1979. Place passed the bar exam that same year and began practicing law in Gatesville. In a 1990 special election, Place, a Democrat, was selected to replace Bob Melton as the Texas State Representative for the 57th District. From 1990-1992, this district represented Bosque, Coryell, and Hill Counties. Redistricting occurred in 1992 after which Place represented the 59th District, comprised of Comanche, Coryell, Erath, and Hamilton Counties. Allen Place, Jr. was a member of the 71st-75th Legislatures, from 1990 to 1999. He served on the Criminal Jurisprudence Committee throughout his tenure, fulfilling the role of chair for three terms. Place also sat on the Calendars, Corrections, and Elections Committees, among others. In 1997, he chaired the Senate Bill 97 Select Committee which revised stalking laws in Texas. Allen D. Place, Jr. is currently an attorney in Gatesville, Texas.
The Administrative Organizations series is further divided into subseries entitled Agencies, Interstate Commerce Commission, Committee on Criminal Jurisprudence, and Task Force on Illegal Gambling. The materials in this series range from 1989 to 1998. The Agencies subseries has inclusive dates of 1989-1998, and consists of correspondence, annual reports, memos, budgets, and meeting agendas. Administrative offices, boards, committees, and departments such as the Texas Commission on Alcohol and Drug Abuse, the Education Coordinating Board, Governor Ann Richards’ office, and the Texas Department of Health are represented. This subseries is arranged in alphabetical order by topic, and the materials are in good condition. The Interstate Commerce Commission subseries contains materials from 1995 to 1996, and primarily relates to details of the merger of the Burlington Northern, Inc. and Atchison, Topeka, and Santa Fe railways. Requests and interrogatories, briefs, motions, commentaries, petitions, and notices are present from AMTRAK, power and electric companies, state agencies, natural resource agencies, and other railroads. This subseries is arranged in alphabetical order, and the materials are in good condition. The subseries Committee on Criminal Jurisprudence is dated 1994-1997. Contents include House Bills pertaining to firearms, bail bonds, controlled substances, and fraud as well as meeting agendas from the Committee on Criminal Jurisprudence and the Elections Committee. This subseries is organized by chronological order and is in good condition. The Task Force on Illegal Gambling subseries consists of materials from 1997. General information gathered by the Task Force concerning gambling laws in other states is included as well as general articles on gambling at the national level. This subseries is arranged in alphabetical order and is in good condition.
The Correspondence series ranges from 1991 to 1998 in chronology and is divided into two subseries, Individuals and Subject. Individuals includes correspondence with politicians, education representatives, and others concerned with political issues such as firearms and the treatment of inmates. This subseries is organized in alphabetical order. The Subject subseries consists of correspondence from the 72nd-75th Legislatures regarding topics such as education, school funding, redistricting, criminal justice reform, tort reform, and issues related to minors. Some inmate correspondence has been included in the subseries but is currently restricted. The materials in this subseries are organized in alphabetical order by year.
The Legislative series, with materials ranging from 1991 to 1997, is divided into four subseries: the 72nd, 73rd, 74th, and 75th Legislatures. Each of these is further divided into at least two sub-subseries including General, Bills by Number, Correspondence, and Legislative Clipping Service.
 The General sub-subseries consist of daily reports, master lists, calendars, policies, and procedures, and are organized chronologically. The Bills by Number sub-subseries are arranged first by type of bill (i.e. House Bills, Senate Bills, and other bills) and then organized numerically by bill. Correspondence sub-subseries contain inquiries about the bills under consideration and are organized chronologically. The Legislative Clipping Service sub-subseries houses articles from various newspaper outlets used to research topics related to legislation. The final sub-subseries are arranged chronologically. Overall, the series is in good condition.
William Robert “Bob” Poage, the son of William Allen Poage and Helen Wheeler Conger, was born on December 28, 1899 in Waco, Texas. The Poage family moved to Throckmorton County shortly thereafter where William A. Poage worked as a rancher and cattleman. The Poages eventually returned to Waco in 1913. Five years later, in 1918, Poage graduated from Waco High School and joined the U.S. Navy as an apprentice seaman during the waning months of World War I. After the war, Poage briefly attended classes at the University of Texas and the University of Colorado at Boulder before enrolling at Baylor University. In 1921, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in geology. Poage taught geology from 1922 to 1924, while simultaneously working on his law degree. In 1924, he earned his law degree from Baylor University and gained admittance to the Texas Bar.
In that same year, Poage ran for political office, winning a seat in the Texas House of Representatives. He served in the Texas House from 1925 to 1929, all while practicing law in Waco and teaching at Baylor Law School. In 1928, Poage attempted but lost a bid for a seat in the Texas Senate and briefly returned to civilian life. In 1931, Poage sought to fill a Senate seat vacated by Edgar Witt. He won the special election this time, ultimately serving in the Texas Senate from 1931 to 1937. Striving to increase his political influence, Poage tried to unseat U.S.
Representative O. H. Cross of the 11th Congressional District of Texas. Poage lost in 1934 but succeeded in defeating Cross in 1936. It was to be the start of a long-tenured career for the Texas Democrat. On February 14, 1938, amidst his political successes, Poage married Frances Lenoir Cotton. Poage served in the U.S. House from 1937 until his retirement in 1978, often running unopposed in the biennial elections. Drawing from his childhood experiences and education, Poage championed life in rural America, seeking improvements such as water and telephone services and helping to establish the Rural Electrification Administration. Often referred to as “Mr. Agriculture”, Poage was a key member of the House Agriculture Committee from 1941 to 1978, chairing the committee from 1967 to 1974. Upon his retirement from the House in 1978, Poage was succeeded by Democrat Marvin Leath. The W. R. Poage Legislative Library was opened in September 1979 in honor of Representative Poage and serves as the repository for his personal and congressional papers. Poage wrote five books during his lifetime including three in retirement: My First 85 Years (1985). Poage passed away during open-heart surgery in Temple, Texas, on January 3, 1987, and is buried in Waco’s Oakwood Cemetery.
Series I. General primarily consists of booklets, reports, and other literary productions pertaining to the development of Texas's infrastructure. These documents, in contrast to those found in Series II, do not relate to the state's water resources. Most of the materials are secondary in nature. Representative Poage did not contribute to them directly, rather, he would have used them for research. The folders in this series are arranged alphabetically according to subject matter then chronologically within each topic. Agriculture, education, energy, healthcare, and transportation are a few of the more prominent issues addressed. Overall, the series is in good condition.
 Series II. Water Resources, the largest series in the collection, contains reports, surveys, legal documents, and other literary productions pertaining to the development of Texas's water resources, both fresh and salt-water. Most of the materials are secondary in nature. Representative Poage did not contribute to them directly, rather, he would have used them for research purposes. The folders within this series are arranged alphabetically according to the creator of the materials, then chronologically under each creator. Publications from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Texas Water Development Board, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and the Soil Conservation Service are prominently featured. The series also includes several legal documents produced during a U.S. Supreme Court case, U.S.A. v. State of Texas, which debated ownership of the Texas tidelands and the oil resources therein. Overall, the series is in good condition.
William Robert “Bob” Poage, the son of William Allen Poage and Helen Wheeler Conger, was born on December 28, 1899, in Waco, Texas. The Poage family moved to Throckmorton County shortly thereafter where William A. Poage worked as a rancher and cattleman. The Poages eventually returned to Waco in 1913. Five years later, in 1918, Poage graduated from Waco High School and joined the U.S. Navy as an apprentice seaman during the waning months of World War I. After the war, Poage briefly attended classes at the University of Texas and the University of Colorado at Boulder before enrolling at Baylor University. In 1921, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in geology. Poage taught geology from 1922 to 1924, while simultaneously working on his law degree. In 1924, he earned his law degree from Baylor University and gained admittance to the Texas Bar. In that same year, Poage ran for political office, winning a seat in the Texas House of Representatives. He served in the Texas House from 1925 to 1929, all while practicing law in Waco and teaching at Baylor Law School. In 1928, Poage attempted but lost a bid for a seat in the Texas Senate and briefly returned to civilian life. In 1931, Poage sought to fill a Senate seat vacated by Edgar Witt. He won the special election this time, ultimately serving in the Texas Senate from 1931 to 1937. Striving to increase his political influence, Poage tried to unseat U.S. Representative O.H. Cross of the Eleventh Congressional District of Texas. Poage lost in 1934 but succeeded in defeating Cross in 1936. It was to be the start of a long-tenured career for the Texas Democrat. On February 14, 1938, amidst his political successes, Poage married Frances Lenoir Cotton. Poage served in the U.S.
House from 1937 until his retirement in 1978, often running unopposed in the biennial elections. Drawing from his childhood experiences and education, Poage championed life in rural America, seeking improvements such as water and telephone services and helping to establish the Rural Electrification Administration. Often referred to as “Mr. Agriculture”, Poage was a key member of the House Agriculture Committee from 1941 to 1978, chairing the committee from 1967 to 1974. Upon his retirement from the House in 1978, Poage was succeeded by Democrat Marvin Leath. The W. R. Poage Legislative Library was opened in September 1979 in honor of Representative Poage and serves as the repository for his personal and congressional papers. Poage wrote five books during his lifetime including three in retirement: My First 85 Years (1985). Poage passed away during open-heart surgery in Temple, Texas, on January 3, 1987, and is buried in Waco’s Oakwood Cemetery.
Series I. Correspondence, the largest series in the collection, spans the entirety of Bob Poage's career in the U.S. House of Representatives, from his election in 1936 to his retirement in 1978. The majority of the folders are divided between correspondence with constituents, colleagues, Democratic campaign committees, and individuals or organizations from out-of-district. Folder organization changes with Poage's rising prominence in Congress and in the Democratic Party, shifting from mostly district and colleague correspondence to a wider range of topics and correspondents and a closer connection to national Democratic campaigns. The materials in this series are arranged chronologically and are in good condition.
Series II. Financial Documents, the smallest series in the collection, contains a wide array of financial materials relating to Representative Bob Poage's election campaigns. Some of the most common records found in this series include receipts of campaign expenses, reports filed with the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and income tax reports. Poage also filed expenditure reports submitted by his political opponents. While the series covers the entirety of Poage's political career in Washington, D.C., most of the materials are from the 1970's, Poage's final decade in office.
This series is arranged chronologically and is in good condition.
Series III. Subject Files, formerly referred to as Reference Files in past finding aids, are a collection of materials accumulated by Representative Bob Poage and his staff relating to specific topics of interest. These include aspects of his own campaigns, the rise of national figures such as Adlai Stevenson and Lyndon B. Johnson, election results divided up by county, Poage's political rivals including Lane Denton and Murray Watson, voting records, and materials relating to Poage's retirement from the U.S. House in 1978. The series is arranged alphabetically by topic or material type and is in good condition.
Series IV. Promotional Materials consists of paper-based documents and three-dimensional objects relating to Congressman Bob Poage's election campaigns for the Texas and U.S. House of Representatives as well as other politicians' campaigns in the mid-twentieth century. Prominent materials include brochures, pins, stickers, and posters. The series is arranged alphabetically by material type and is in fairly good condition.
John E. Hogan was born on December 30, 1925, in Janesville, Minnesota. After graduating from the University of Minnesota, Hogan served in the U.S. Navy from 1950 to 1957, including service during the Korean War. Taking full advantage of the GI Bill, he transferred to Washington, D.C. and earned a law degree from George Washington University, a Masters in Law from Georgetown University, and a Masters in Business Administration from American University. Hogan remained in the U.S. Naval Reserve until 1983. In 1969, Hogan started his tenure working with the U.S. House of Representatives. After serving as Minority Counsel for the House Committee on the District of Columbia (1969-1975), Hogan was appointed Republican Counsel for the House Committee on Agriculture (1975-1998). He served in various roles including Associate Minority Counsel (1975-1979) and Minority Counsel (1979-1995) before retiring in 1998. In 2001, Hogan returned to D.C. to serve briefly as President George W. Bush's Active Deputy Under Secretary for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service. Hogan married Edith Howard and had two children: Edith Chrystal Hogan and Terrence Howard Hogan. He died on November 7, 2012.
The largest series in the collection, Series I. Agriculture, contains materials that deal primarily with farm bills, policies, and various crops. Proposed farm bills from 1990 and 1995 represent the most substance. The materials in this series are in excellent condition.
Series II. Environment consists of materials that address various facets of the relationship between agriculture and environmental safety. The materials cover such topics as conservation, endangered species, food safety, forestry, pesticides, and wetlands. Several pieces of legislation, including the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996 and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), feature prominently. Overall, the series is in excellent condition.
Series III. Federal Law, a small series, contains materials that cover a broad spectrum of federal topics. Most of the materials are comprised of updates, proposals, revisions, and opinions. The materials in this series are in excellent condition.
By far the smallest series in the collection, Series V. contains a publication list and statements pertaining to the impeachment hearings for President Richard Nixon. Overall, the materials in this series are in excellent condition.
Trade consists of materials pertaining to agriculture and trade. There is a large section of reports produced by the General Accounting Office, particularly relating to trade between the United States and Mexico. The series covers a wide range of topics including food aid, nutrition labeling, and various trade deals such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Overall, the series is in excellent condition.
William Robert “Bob” Poage, the son of William Allen Poage and Helen Wheeler Conger, was born on December 28, 1899, in Waco, Texas. The Poage family moved to Throckmorton County shortly thereafter, where William A. Poage worked as a rancher and cattleman. The Poages eventually returned to Waco in 1913. Five years later, in 1918, Poage graduated from Waco High School and joined the U.S. Navy as an apprentice seaman during the waning months of World War I. After the war, Poage briefly attended classes at the University of Texas and the University of Colorado at Boulder before enrolling at Baylor University. In 1921, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Geology. Poage taught geology from 1922 to 1924, while simultaneously working on his law degree. In 1924, he earned his law degree from Baylor University and gained admittance to the Texas Bar. In that same year, Poage ran for political office, winning a seat in the Texas House of Representatives. He served in the Texas House from 1925 to 1929, all while practicing law in Waco and teaching at Baylor Law School. In 1928, Poage attempted but lost a bid for a seat in the Texas Senate and briefly returned to civilian life. In 1931, Poage sought to fill a Senate seat vacated by Edgar Witt. He won the special election this time, ultimately serving in the Texas Senate from 1931 to 1937. Striving to increase his political influence, Poage tried to unseat U.S. Representative O. H. Cross of the 11th Congressional District of Texas. Poage lost in 1934, but succeeded in defeating Cross in 1936. It was to be the start of a long-tenured career for the Texas Democrat. On February 14, 1938, amidst his political successes, Poage married Frances Lenoir Cotton. Poage served in the U.S. House from 1937 until his retirement in 1978, often running unopposed in the biennial elections. Drawing from his childhood experiences and education, Poage championed life in rural America, seeking improvements such as water and telephone services and helping to establish the Rural Electrification Administration. Often referred to as “Mr. Agriculture”, Poage was a key member of the House Agriculture Committee from 1941 to 1978, chairing the committee from 1967 to 1974. Upon his retirement from the House in 1978, Poage was succeeded by Democrat Marvin Leath. The W. R. Poage Legislative Library was opened in September 1979 in honor of Representative Poage and serves as the repository for his personal and congressional papers. Poage wrote five books during his lifetime including three in retirement: My First 85 Years (1985). Poage passed away during open-heart surgery in Temple, Texas, on January 3, 1987, and is buried in Waco’s Oakwood Cemetery.
Series I. Agencies, Boards, and Commissions reflects the diverse nature of the federal government. This series consists primarily of materials such as correspondence, press releases, publications, and reports that Representative "Bob" Poage received from members of various governmental entities. The series is arranged alphabetically by name. Materials from the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the General Services Administration (GSA), National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK), the Office of Economic Opportunity (OEO), the Postal Service, and the U.S. Supreme Court are some of the most prominent in the series. Most materials were produced in the 1970s, Poage’s final decade of public service. Overall, the series is in good condition.
Series II. Departments is by far the largest series in the collection. Materials in this series are divided according to the department of the executive branch to which they pertain. There are twelve subseries in total and are organized alphabetically: the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Defense, Energy, Health, Education, and Welfare, Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Justice, Labor, State, Transportation, and Treasury. The largest subseries in Series II is the Department of Agriculture, which reflects Bob Poage's legislative focus as a longtime member and brief chair of the House Committee on Agriculture.
Subseries I consists of materials relating to the Department of Agriculture. This is one of the larger subseries in Series II. Departments, as Bob Poage was a long-time member of the House Committee on Agriculture and was a champion of agricultural issues. Several agencies feature prominently in the subseries including the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, the Farmers Home Administration, the Office of the Secretary, and the Soil Conservation Service. Poage also collected significant runs of various bulletins produced by the Department of Agriculture including the “Farmers’ Bulletin” and the “Home and Garden Bulletin.” The materials in this subseries address a variety of topics including economic development, practical tips for farming, trade, raising livestock, crop insurance, and the Poage-Aiken Bill. The folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries II contains materials relating to the Department of Commerce. The bulk of the materials pertain to the Bureau of the Census and the Economic Development Administration. Topics addressed at length in the subseries include various censuses of agriculture, lists of towns in Central Texas counties, patents, community planning, trade, and financial development. The folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries III, one of the largest in Series II. Departments, contains materials pertaining to the Department of Defense. There is a significant amount of correspondence from each branch of the military, particularly covering the years of American involvement in the Vietnam War. Another major section of the subseries contains reports and publications from the Army Corps of Engineers and projects they conducted in Central Texas including ones on the Brazos River and Lake Whitney. Other topics addressed include ones of local interest such as Doris Miller, Connally Air Force Base, and Fort Hood. Many materials were deaccessioned from this subseries. These included personal casefiles, applications to the various military academies, correspondence concerning orders, and requests to Bob Poage to facilitate transfers or discharges. Note that materials on the Coast Guard can be found under the Department of Treasury (pre-1967) and the Department of Transportation (post-1967). Folders in this subseries are divided alphabetically by branch of military when possible. There are also materials relating to the Department of Defense in general which are typically identified by material type. Most of the materials in this subseries are in good condition.
Subseries IV is one of the smallest sections in the collection. Materials pertain to the Department of Energy and the use of natural resources, specifically oil and coal. Most of the content dates back to President Jimmy Carter’s Administration in the late 1970s. Due to inflation and rising gas prices, government officials sought to identify alternative fuel sources. Folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically according to the agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries V consists of materials pertaining to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW). Due to the broad scope of the department, topics addressed in the materials vary widely including student loans, education reform, benefits, healthcare, welfare, and the integration of local area high schools. Reports and correspondence relating to the Food and Drug Administration, the Office of Education, and the Social Security Administration are prominently featured. Materials of a personal nature - including medical case files or Social Security cases - have been deaccessioned. The folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries VI consists of materials relating to the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Prominent issues from the 1960s and 1970s including urban renewal, affordable housing, flooding, model cities, and quality of life are addressed in the materials. Many of the materials are relevant to Central Texas, particularly Waco and Killeen. Folders in this subseries are organized alphabetically by agency or material type. The materials are in good condition.
Subseries VII contains materials relating to the Department of the Interior. Documents from the Bureau of Reclamation, Fish and Wildlife Service, Geological Survey, and National Park Service feature prominently in the subseries. Topics such as national parks (including Big Bend National Park), federal land management, wildlife refuges, and water supply are addressed at length. Folders in this subseries are organized alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries VIII consists of materials relating to the Department of Justice. The content addresses law enforcement matters within the United States including immigration and the naturalization of citizens. There are three agencies that feature prominently in the subseries: the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration. Folders in the subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. The materials are in good condition.
Subseries IX contains materials relating to the Department of Labor. Several topics such as migrant labor, workers’ safety and wages, and women in the workforce are represented in the subseries. There is also a significant batch of folders that consist of materials from OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration created under the Richard Nixon Administration in 1971. The folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. The materials are in good condition.
Subseries X is comprised of materials relating to the Department of State. Three of the most prominent entities represented among the materials include the Agency for International Development, Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, and the U.S. Foreign Service. The materials cover a broad array of topics including foreign affairs, refugees (particularly Indochinese refugees during the Vietnam War), and passports. Correspondence containing personal information on passports has been deaccessioned. The folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Subseries XI contains materials pertaining to the Department of Transportation which began operations in 1967. The content of the subseries relates to several agencies within the Department of Transportation including the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Highway Administration, and the U.S. Coast Guard which eventually transferred to the Department of Homeland Security in 2003. Additional materials concerning transportation, particularly those relating to AMTRAK, can be found in Series I. since the materials predate the establishment of the Department of Transportation. Folders in this subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. The materials are in good condition.
Subseries XII consists of materials pertaining to the Department of the Treasury. Agencies prominently featured include the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Coast Guard (pre-1967). Some topics found throughout the subseries include revenue sharing, wage increases, inflation, price freezing, and the U.S. national debt. Folders in the subseries are arranged alphabetically by agency or material type. Overall, the materials are in good condition.
Series III. Executive, the smallest series in the collection, consists of materials from and to the executive branch of the United States government. The White House and its Office of Management and Budget are prominent correspondents in the materials. Representative Bob Poage received most of the following correspondence and press releases during the Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, and Jimmy Carter Administrations of the 1970s. The major exception is a folder of inauguration materials from President Franklin Roosevelt's fourth inauguration ceremony. Topics such as rampant inflation, Watergate, and clemency towards Vietnam War draft evaders are prevalent throughout. Overall, the series is in good condition.
Donald Hugh Grisham was born on July 26, 1960, in Waco, Texas. He earned a Bachelor of Arts in History from Tarleton State University and worked as a filing clerk at the Attorney General's Office in Austin, Texas. Grisham’s interest in the John F. Kennedy assassination stems from a memory in which he and his father watched as Jack Ruby killed Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963. Grisham has had a strong interest in the JFK assassination but is not a self-ascribed researcher on the subject. The materials in this collection were accumulated by Grisham in 1982, during his time in the state Attorney General's office. The office offered transfer of three copies of the materials to the Texas State Archive who declined because they already possessed copies. Grisham later gifted these copies to the Poage Legislative Library in 2007.
Series I. Notebooks contains material that was originally held in three-ring binders. The contents of these folders include police reports, material related to the Dallas Police Department's investigation of the assassination, and photographs.
Series II. Reports contains previously spiral-bound documents. Materials contained in the series include police reports, court documents, correspondence, and transcriptions of police radio transmissions. Overall, the series is in excellent condition.
William Robert “Bob” Poage, the son of William Allen Poage and Helen Wheeler Conger, was born on December 28, 1899, in Waco, Texas. The Poage family moved to Throckmorton County shortly thereafter, where William A. Poage worked as a rancher and cattleman. The Poages eventually returned to Waco in 1913. Five years later, in 1918, Poage graduated from Waco High School and joined the U.S. Navy as an apprentice seaman during the waning months of World War I. After the war, Poage briefly attended classes at the University of Texas and the University of Colorado at Boulder before enrolling at Baylor University. In 1921, he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Geology. Poage taught geology from 1922 to 1924, while simultaneously working on his law degree. In 1924, he earned his law degree from Baylor University and gained admittance to the Texas Bar. In that same year, Poage ran for political office, winning a seat in the Texas House of Representatives. He served in the Texas House from 1925 to 1929, all while practicing law in Waco and teaching at Baylor Law School. In 1928, Poage attempted but lost a bid for a seat in the Texas Senate and briefly returned to civilian life. In 1931, Poage sought to fill a Senate seat vacated by Edgar Witt. He won the special election this time, ultimately serving in the Texas Senate from 1931 to 1937. Striving to increase his political influence, Poage tried to unseat U.S. Representative O. H. Cross of the 11th Congressional District of Texas. Poage lost in 1934, but succeeded in defeating Cross in 1936. It was to be the start of a long-tenured career for the Texas Democrat. On February 14, 1938, amidst his political successes, Poage married Frances Lenoir Cotton. Poage served in the U.S. House from 1937 until his retirement in 1978, often running unopposed in the biennial elections. Drawing from his childhood experiences and education, Poage championed life in rural America, seeking improvements such as water and telephone services and helping to establish the Rural Electrification Administration. Often referred to as “Mr. Agriculture”, Poage was a key member of the House Agriculture Committee from 1941 to 1978, chairing the committee from 1967 to 1974. Upon his retirement from the House in 1978, Poage was succeeded by Democrat Marvin Leath. The W. R. Poage Legislative Library was opened in September 1979 in honor of Representative Poage and serves as the repository for his personal and congressional papers. Poage wrote five books during his lifetime including three in retirement: My First 85 Years (1985). Poage passed away during open-heart surgery in Temple, Texas, on January 3, 1987, and is buried in Waco’s Oakwood Cemetery.
This expansive series covers all personal materials related to Bob Poage and his family. The series includes a variety of materials, including family correspondence, financial documents, manuscripts from his published books, newspaper clippings, and more. Items are arranged chronologically with undated materials appearing at the front of the series. Folders with date ranges or broad dates are arranged at the front of the arrangement, followed by folders with more specific dates. The documents in this series are in good condition overall. Many fragile or acidic documents have been preserved or copied, but several fragile books remain.
This series contains mostly personal correspondence between W. R. Poage and his clients, with relevant notes, legal documents, and financial records. Poage’s law office was in the Amicable (ALICO) Building, where he practiced law with Pat M. Neff, Jr. The documents in this series show his work with clients on collections, land and mineral leases, logistics companies, and probate law. The folders are arranged alphabetically by name and are in good condition.
The photographs and images in this series depict scenes of W. R. Poage’s professional and personal life, portraits from friends and colleagues, travels, family history, and more. The series is in good condition. Folders are organized alphabetically by identification numbers used by previous arrangers. Folders without identification numbers are organized alphabetically by folder title and are placed at the end of the series.
This series covers the entirety of W. R. Poage’s tenure in the U.S. House of Representatives where he served twenty-one consecutive terms. Poage’s primary focus as Representative of the 11th Congressional District of Texas was on agricultural issues and blue-collar workers. Poage spoke at many conferences and conventions related to food production, agriculture, and other related fields as well as to local organizations in the district. The speeches in this series are arranged chronologically. If two folders share the same date, then they are arranged alphabetically by title.
The documents in this series are in good condition, with most items being a copied transcript of the original.
As a delegate to the Interparliamentary Union and a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, Poage often traveled for agricultural or diplomatic purposes. This series contains many of the documents related to his travels — everything from dossiers to bumper stickers. Several foreign languages are depicted in this subseries including Arabic, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Most of the items in this series are in good condition with a few acidic and fragile items included.
This subseries consists mostly of correspondence, itineraries, schedules, official documents, and other personal or governing information related to Representative Poage’s international travels. Languages depicted in this subseries include Arabic, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Persian, Portuguese, and Spanish. Overall, the items in this subseries are in good condition.
This subseries consists of items collected during Representative Poage’s professional and personal travels. Maps, brochures, booklets, and postcards from all over the world can be found throughout this subseries. Languages depicted in this subseries include English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, and Spanish. There is an assortment of oversized maps, books, and other documents. Only a few items in the subseries are acidic or otherwise fragile, with everything else in good condition. Folders are listed in alphabetical order and are generally grouped by geographical region. Geographical Region names are maintained as Poage would have experienced or mentioned them. Some places that he visited have become new countries or presently use different names. America: United StatesBelgian Congo: Democratic Republic of CongoFrench Equatorial Africa: Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, GabonKorea: South KoreaRhodesia: Zambia, ZimbabweSwaziland: EswatiniUpper Volta: Burkina FasoUSSR: Russia, Georgia, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, TajikistanYugoslavia: Serbia, Montenegro The items in this series are three-dimensional or oddly shaped items collected during Bob Poage's lifetime. A significant portion of this series consists of plaques awarded to the former Representative from a variety of organizations. The series also contains a small button collection, Congressional license plates, presidential pens, flags, Stetson hats, and more. This series is primarily in good condition. It is organized alphabetically by item type and description. Most of the items in this series are kept in oversized boxes; however, several items are too large to fit in containers and are kept on the shelves with the collection.
Series VII. Audiovisual Materials houses several media formats including records, audio tapes, film reels, and slides. The bulk of the materials consists of over 4,000 slides collected by Bob Poage and his nephew Scott Poage during their respective travels. The audio and film reels depict Representative Poage discussing significant campaign issues including agriculture, environmentalism, civil rights, food prices, seniority in Congress, and retirement. Overall, this series is in average condition. The slides are not digitized but are available upon request. The audio and film reels are digitized and saved on a preservation server. Each item's preservation identification number is included in the folder listing in parentheses. If you are interested in looking at these materials, please contact the archivist for more details.
Subseries I. Film Strips is the smallest subseries of Audiovisual Materials. It contains 5 film strips showing images of an interview between Representative W. R. Poage and Sarah McLendon, a prominent news reporter in Washington, D.C.
Subseries II. Records consists of five 12" LP records and one 16" LP record. These records are speeches Representative Poage delivered through the Chicago Board of Trade, the CBS Radio Network, Sperry Rand Corporation, and ABC W-A-C-O Radio Station and reflect Poage's primary focus in politics: agriculture. The materials in this series are in average condition. The records are digitized and saved on a preservation server. Each item has a preservation identification number in the folder listing. Please contact the archivist with this number if you are interested in listening to these records.
Subseries III. Slides is the largest section in the Audiovisual Materials series. It contains a wide assortment of slides collected by Rep. W. R. Poage and his nephew Scott T. Poage during their travels. Both Poages were well-traveled with slides from the United States, Central America, South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, Oceania, and even the South Pole. The slides capture the campuses of several prominent universities, historical landmarks around the world, Poage's family ranch, family members, and friends. There is no specific arrangement for this subseries due to the overall extent of the materials. The slides were inventoried as they were originally housed. While there is some overlap between this subseries and Series III. Photographs, the materials herein are largely different. Please note there are 25 slides in each case/folder and 20 cases in each box. The slides are not digitized but are available for viewing. Please contact the archivist for more details.
Subseries IV. Tapes houses audio tapes, film reels, and VHS tapes of W. R. Poage. All formats primarily relate to speeches Poage delivered to his constituents, often during reelection campaigns, and address topics such as predatory animals, care for the environment, the House Agriculture Committee, food prices, civil rights protests, the seniority system in Congress, student loans, Fort Hood, and Poage's retirement at the end of 1978. All of the materials in this subseries are digitized and located on a digital preservation server. The preservation identification numbers for each item are located in parentheses. Untitled materials have been reviewed and a basic description of the contents is included whenever possible. Please note there are a significant number of duplicates in this subseries, particularly in the audio tapes. In such instances, both copies have been kept and given unique preservation identification numbers. If you are interested in researching these materials, please contact the archivist for more details.
Dr. Grover B. Proctor, Jr. attended Broughton High School in Raleigh, North Carolina from 1966 to 1969. Proctor then enrolled in the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill where he earned a bachelor’s degree in communications in 1973. Much of Proctor’s professional career has been spent in academia. He served as an Associate Dean for Northwood University in Midland, Michigan from 1985 to 2008, and is currently graduate faculty at Walden University. He earned a doctorate in education from Wayne State University in 2001. Proctor began researching the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 1974. He has since written several articles and presented various lectures on his research. One of his most prominent works focuses on the “Raleigh Call”, an alleged phone call that Lee Harvey Oswald made to John Hurt, a former military counterintelligence officer in Raleigh, North Carolina, before Oswald was killed.
Series I. JFK Research Materials, the only series in the collection, contains research materials that Grover Proctor gathered or created as a result of his investigation into the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. The authors of the articles are noted in the folder titles and any folders that deal specifically with Proctor's research on the "Raleigh Call" are noted as well. Overall, the series is in good condition and is arranged alphabetically.
Theresa Margaret Carroll Seay was born in New York City on August 28, 1943, the only child of Charles Edward Carroll and Stephania Klapik Carroll. Charles died when Theresa was six years old and she was raised by her mother. She was educated through high school in Catholic schools graduating from Notre Dame High School near the top of her class. Theresa attended Washington State College in Machias, Maine, until the end of her sophomore year when she transferred to the University of Maine at Orono. She graduated with a bachelor's degree in history and education in 1965, and then attended graduate school for one semester. She met and married Kenneth Edward Garnett in 1968 and settled near Ellsworth, Maine. They lived there for about 10 years. Their only child, David Edward, was born in 1973. During this time, she joined Mensa. Theresa worked for 10 years as a veterinary assistant in Ellsworth. She also bred German Shepherd dogs, Arabian horses, and operated a riding stable. She was active in local politics, although she never ran for office. At some point Theresa became interested in JFK assassination research. After studying the available information, she became an advocate for alternate explanations. She also, with her Mensa network, took part in demonstrations about injustices she encountered. After a divorce, she and son David moved to Raleigh, North Carolina. In the Raleigh Mensa group, she met and subsequently married Robert Seay, an engineer at a local manufacturer of electronic components. She became a prominent member in this local Mensa group. In 1988 Theresa and Robert moved to Asheville, North Carolina, where she set up a consulting business. During the three years in Asheville, she wrote several articles and stories, some of which were published in various specialty magazines. She attended several conferences of JFK researchers and chaired one in Dallas on the 30th anniversary in 1993. After moving to Connecticut, Theresa entered the graduate program at Western Connecticut University in Danbury in 1993. She finished the master's program there and was admitted to the University of Connecticut at Storrs for her doctoral studies. She was awarded her Ph.D. in History and Government in 2002. Her dissertation was about the discrepancies in the medical evidence between Parkland Hospital and the Bethesda autopsy of JFK. After the 9-11 terrorist attacks, Theresa joined a local group of researchers where she put considerable effort into investigating and communicating with other colleagues. She continued this activity until her death on May 22, 2011.
Theresa Seay was an expert on the Warren Commission report and attended and was invited to speak at many conferences during her active research years. This material is from conference attended between 1992-1994.
The Correspondence series contains items related to her research and other various interests.
The Dissertation series contains manuscripts of her writings, as well as paperwork needed to get it approved and published.
The Research series contain materials from the Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB), news clippings, the National Archive, the Warren Commission, and the US House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA).
The Publication series contains written material collected and written by Theresa Seay. Includes newsletters.
The Books series contains publications which Seay made substantial marginalia and includes a copy of her dissertation.
The Media series contains film, computer disks, and VHS. Plans are to digitize these materials in the future.
Richard A. Jenson, President of Jenson Research and Communications, founded his Austin-based business in 2005. Jenson had previously served as a consultant for political candidates in Texas, including Texas Supreme Court Justices John Hill, C.L. Ray, Franklin Spears, Ted Robertson, and Bill Kilgarlin. Jenson extensively collected political campaign materials from the 1980s and 1990s. These include all branches and levels of government, but Jenson's prime areas of interest were the Texas Supreme Court and Appellate Court judicial races. Jenson donated the collection in 2014.
Series I. Parties and Organizations do not focus on individual candidates but rather on political parties and organizations. The folders are organized alphabetically by entity with the State Bar of Texas, Texas Democratic Party, and Texas Railroad Commission featuring prominently. Overall, the series is in good condition.
Series II. Executive is organized by level of government: federal, state, and local. Within each level, folders are arranged alphabetically by the candidate's last name. The federal section is largely related to U.S. presidential races. Prominent historical figures such as George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, Al Gore, and Michael Dukakis are represented here. In the state section, materials on positions such as governor, lieutenant governor, attorney general, and comptroller can be found. Prominent Texas leaders like Bob Bullock and Chet Edwards are represented here. The local section is the largest part of this series and is primarily related to positions in Travis County, Texas. Folders contain materials on mayoral candidates, county commissioners, and sheriffs. Overall, this series is in good condition.
Series III. Judicial is organized by level of government: state and local. There are no federal judicial materials present. Within each level of government, folders are organized alphabetically by the candidate's last name. The state section accounts for the majority of this series. It relates to candidates for the Texas Supreme Court and Appellate Court judicial races. Jack Hightower, Bill Vance, Jimmy Carroll, Bill Kilgarlin, Oscar Mauzy, Tom Phillips, and Ted Robertson feature prominently. The local section consists of materials relating to county court positions as well as Justices of the Peace. This series is in good condition.
Series IV. Legislative is organized by level of government: federal, state, and local. Within each level of government, folders are organized alphabetically by the candidate's last name. The federal section relates to races for the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate.
 The state section is the largest section of the series and consists of materials for Texas House and Texas Senate races. Temple Dickson and Chet Edwards are featured here. The local section relates to members of city councils or precinct commissioners with a specific focus on the city of Austin, Travis County, and Potter County. Overall, this series is in good condition.
John Nesbett Leedom was born in Dallas, Texas on July 27, 1921. He attended Rice University, earned an electrical engineering degree in 1943, and served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. In the 1950’s, Leedom established Wholesale Electronic Supply, Inc., which he ran as CEO. In March 1956, John married his wife of 55 years, Betty Harvey Leedom. In 1961, Leedom ran for and won a position in the Republican Party as Dallas County Chairman, a position he held for several years. In 1974, Leedom ran for Dallas City Council, where he served until 1980. In 1980, he successfully ran for Texas State Senate, serving on committees such as Education, Economic Development, and State Affairs, among many others. During his time in office, Leedom most famously wrote the Texas “Rainy Day Fund” law. Leedom served as a delegate for the 1976 and 1988 presidential elections, supporting Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush respectively. Throughout his political career, Leedom supported many Republican candidates for office at a local and national level, including Barry Goldwater, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George H.W. Bush. He retired from the legislature in 1996 and continued work as a lobbyist and author until his death on May 31, 2011. Craig Pardue, an alumnus of Baylor University, donated the John Leedom papers to the W. R. Poage Legislative Library in April 2022. Like John Leedom, Pardue resided in Dallas, Texas and worked in Texas politics. Pardue, a lobbyist, worked for Dallas County as an Assistant County Administrator of Governmental Affairs for thirty years. Prior to that, he worked for the Texas House of Representatives.
Series I. Republican Local is the largest series in the collection. It contains documents relating to the local reporting and local campaigning on various elections; including Leedom's 1980 Texas Senate campaign; City of Dallas matters for which Leedom served as a City Councilor; and Dallas County Republican Party business, for which Leedom served as a County Chairman. Overall, this series is in good condition.
Series II. Republican National contains newspaper clippings, press releases, correspondence, and other materials relating to the 1964 and 1976 Republican National Conventions, Richard Nixon's 1968 Presidential Campaign, and Ronald Reagan's 1980 Presidential Campaign. The series is in good condition.
Series III. Personal contains notes, correspondence, artifacts, and business records from John Leedom, his wife Betty, and other family members. The folders are divided into family materials, business materials relating to Leedom's company Wholesale Electronics, or a combination of the two.
Overall, this series is in good condition.
George Clarence “Cotton” Moffett was born on November 20, 1895, in Chillicothe, Texas. He graduated with a degree in agriculture and animal husbandry from Texas A&M College before serving in the US Army Air Force during WWI. After returning from the war, he worked in the oil and lumber industries and managed his family farm. In 1930, Moffett successfully ran for a position in the Texas House of Representatives. After serving in his position for eight years, he successfully ran for Texas Senate, a position he held for nearly three decades. Moffett was a supporter of legislation related to his many passions: agriculture, science, livestock, and veterans. He earned his nickname "Cotton" through his efforts working with the cotton industry. Moffett was a good friend of Judge Jack Hightower. Both men grew up in nearby towns and were Freemasons. In 1964, Moffett retired from the Texas Senate, clearing the way for Jack Hightower’s successful campaign. In the early 2000s, Poage Library staff created the George "Cotton" Moffett collection, pulling the materials out of the Jack Hightower papers.
The Armstrong Browning Library is a research library devoted to the study of the lives and works of the Victorian poets Robert and Elizabeth Barrett Browning. It houses the world's largest collection of books, letters, manuscripts, and memorabilia pertaining to the Brownings, as well as a substantial collection of primary and secondary materials related to 19th-century literature and culture. Students and scholars are welcome to conduct research using its extensive non-circulating collections.
These are records collected over undefined years by the Armstrong Browning Library in regard to the stained glass windows in the building. It includes literary productions, records, and notes.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. From the beginning of the post-World War II period until approximately 2004, Keston obtained materials documenting the religious and political climate and persecution in Czechoslovakia, a country that obtained independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire and existed from 1918-1992. From 1938-1945, Nazi Germany occupied Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union controlled the country from 1948-1989. On January 1, 1993, Czechoslovakia peacefully separated into the Czech Republic and Slovakia. In 1918, Czechoslovakia brought together the historic lands of Bohemia, Moravia and Slovakia with Tomas Masaryk elected the first president. However, the leaders of Great Britain, France, Italy and GermanyDLNeville Chamberlain, Edouard Daladier, Benito Mussolini, and Adolf HitlerDLsigned the Munich Agreement in September 1938. The document passed control of the border areas of Czechoslovakia known as Sudetenland to Hitler’s Germany. Because the Czechs had aligned themselves militarily with France and Britain, the event is sometimes referred to as “About us, without us!” and led to significant oppression. Although many believed the country would recover its freedom following WW II, the “Victorious February” or “Czech Coup” dashed those hopes for more than 40 years. On February, 28, 1948, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia took total control, leading to religious, political, economic and cultural repression and the need for Keston’s efforts in collecting, documenting, and disseminating information about the situation. The 1950’s may have been the most depressive decade in the post-war period. Collectivization, nationalization, elimination of private business, political repression and religious persecution led to general fear. Opponents of the regime were forced to emigrate, intimidated, or silenced like political leader Dr. Milada Horáková who was executed and priest Josef Toufar who was tortured to his death. Many died or languished in prison. With Nikita Khrushchev’s assent to power in the USSR during the 1960’s, change occurred in Czechoslovakia as well, bringing modern ideas, societal transformation and political liberalization. The brief liberalization period that began on January 5 and ended on August 21, 1968, became known as Prague Spring. Alexander Dubček, First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, introduced “socialism with a human face” that promised to improve overall living conditions. However, on August 21, 1968, Warsaw Pact countries led by the Soviet Union invaded the country “to save the socialism” be stopping reform, consolidating Communist power, and increasing oppression. The Soviets remained in power for 21 years with Czechoslovakia becoming one of the most progressive and repressive countries in Europe during the 1970’s and 1980’s. Normalization, sometimes named Husákism after President Gustáv Husák, occurred during the 1970’s and included steps and actions following the violent suppression of the Prague Spring. These actions included purges of the Communist Party, restoration of censorship, and elimination of associations and organizations. The first increased expression of resistance against the regime took place with an informal civic initiative called Charter 77. Members such as Václav Havel and Pavel Kohout drafted a human rights document, but the regime considered spreading the text of the document a political crime resulting in persecution. In 1989, as democratization spread under Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, mass demonstrations occurred in Prague from November 17 through late December, 1989, and led to the Velvet Revolution which ended Communist rule, returned democracy, and allowed the re-emergence of religious freedom. Former dissident Václav Havel became the country’s president, and in free elections held in June 1990, non-communist candidates won by large majorities.
General Czechoslovakia subject files contain materials on religious persecution, human rights activity, state religious policies, atheist propaganda, communist ideology, and political dissidents, including Carter 77, 1968 Soviet invasion, and peaceful separation of Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993.
Denominational Czechoslovakia subject files contain categories similar to the general subject files with the focus on a particular denomination and individual prosecution cases of believers and clergy.
Xenia Violet Howard-Johnston Dennen was born in Liverpool on March 11, 1944, to Rear-Admiral Clarence Dinsmore Howard-Johnston and Lady Alexandra Henrietta Louisa Haig. Dennen received a degree in Russian and French from Oxford University in 1966. Her interest in Russia stemmed from her paternal grandmother whose family, the Bairds, lived in Russia from the late 18th century until 1882. Soon after graduation, Michael Bourdeaux employed her as his assistant, researching the religious situation in the Soviet Union. To acquire greater understanding of the country, she earned a graduate degree in Russian politics from the London School of Economics and Political Science while working as a research assistant for Professor Leonard Schapiro. In 1969, Dennen helped found The Centre for the Study of Religion and Communism (later to be called Keston College and eventually Keston Institute) and became a member of its Council of Management. She began producing Keston’s academic journal Encyclopaedia of Religious Life in Russia Today. Dennen has chaired the Keston Institute Council of Management since 2002 and serves on the Court of the Mercers’ Company in London. She is married to the Venerable Lyle Dennen, a priest in the Church of England. They have two grown sons.
The largest series in the collection consists of newspaper clippings, research papers, reports, manuscripts, handwritten notes, correspondence, and publications collected for Dennen’s personal research or produced as a result of her affiliation with the Keston Institute, the Keston Moscow Office, or the Keston Council of Management.
The series contains materials collected by Dennen for personal research, including copies of Russian books, original publications and periodicals. The series also includes two manuscripts in English.
The series contains Dennen’s diaries of Keston Encyclopedia project field trips to various parts of Russia.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Beginning in 1975 and continuing until approximately 2004, Keston collected materials documenting the religious and political climate of Angola. A Portuguese colony, Angola obtained its independence in 1975. The Colonial War, fought for the independence of Angola, lasted from 1961-1974. With Cuban support on November 11, 1975, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) declared independence and established a socialist regime. Agostinho Neto became the first president. Rebel groups from the Colonial War, particularly the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), opposed the socialist regime, and a new civil war broke out lasting from 1975-2002. In 2002, UNITA leader Dr.
Jonas Savimbi was killed in combat, and shortly thereafter the government and rebels reached a ceasefire agreement. With foreign governments assisting both sides, the civil war lasted nearly 30 years. The MPLA received aid from several countries, most notably Cuba and the Soviet Union. Dr. Savimbi and UNITA were supported most prominently by South Africa and the United States. They sent troops, military arms, and medical supplies. The war raged for nearly a decade before the first signs of an end appeared. The 1980’s brought the prospect of peace talks.
Angola, Cuba and South Africa met multiple times and attempted to halt the violence. Discussions centered heavily on the removal of Cuban troops from Angola and the independence of Namibia from South Africa. Finally, after several years and much political maneuvering, the factions reached an agreement. By 1991, South African and Cuban troops had withdrawn from Angola, but the battle with UNITA had not ceased. As the war continued, Angola became willing to enter into peace talks with the rebel forces partly due to international pressure. The negotiations between Dr. Savimbi and President Jose Eduardo dos Santos finally took place in 1989. With hopes for ending the 14 year old civil war in sight, Dr. Savimbi demanded free elections and received the concession. In 1992, Angola held its first free, multiparty election overseen by the United Nations.
President Jose Eduardo dos Santos and the MPLA won with more than 50% of the vote. Several parties, including Dr. Savimbi, refused to accept the results and proclaimed a rigged election. His response was to continue fighting, and the long anticipated election dashed Angola’s hopes for peace. The civil war continued until Dr. Savimbi’s death in combat in 2002. Shortly thereafter, the two sides agreed to a ceasefire, and the war ended. However partially due to the effects of the civil war, Angola would not hold another free election for 16 years. In 2008, the MPLA party won by an overwhelming majority in the second free, multiparty election.
General Angola subject files contain materials pertaining to the Angolan civil war, peace talks, the 1992 election, human rights activity, international relations, communist ideology, refugees, religious persecutions, and other religious activity.
Denominational Angola subject files contain categories pertaining to particular denominational activities within Angola.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (CommunismNicolae Ceausescu, the first secretary of the Romanian Communist Party, became the Communist Romanian dictator in 1965. He implemented reforms at the beginning of his rule that allowed more freedom and positively affected the economy. Ceausescu preached “national” Communism and widened Romania’s divergence from Soviet policies. He denounced the Soviet Union for ordering the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia, recognized the Federal Republic of Germany, and maintained diplomatic relationships with Israel. However, Ceausescu’s nearly two decades of supremacy became the most gruesome in Romanian history. Ceausescu consolidated his power by introducing “dynastic” socialism, implementing “rotation of cadres” in the government, and exploiting a ruthlessly efficient secret police. He continued forceful “Romanization” which led to severe discrimination of ethnic minorities. He pursued a singular agenda in economics and foreign policy which resulted in financial crisis, enormous foreign debt, and shortages of food, electricity and other consumer goods. To repay the debt, Ceausescu introduced draconian measures to reduce imports and maximize export earnings. For the first time since the early postwar years, the government imposed food rationing in order to export agricultural products for foreign currency.
Electricity, gasoline, and heat were also rationed. By the time the debt was repaid in 1989, the country was on the edge of collapse and its population exhausted. In an attempt to boost Romanian economy in the early 1970s, Ceausescu launched a program to “systematize” the countryside by destroying “nonviable” villages and building agro-industrial centers. Many “qualifying” villages with populations of less than 3,000 were ancient Hungarian and German settlements. Continuous violations of basic human rights by Ceausescu’s regime damaged Romania’s foreign relations, not just with the West but also with the rest of the Warsaw Pact. The United States, West Germany, and Israel protested Romania’s increasingly restrictive immigration policies. Treatment of the Transylvania Hungarian community by Ceausescu’s regime caused inflamed relations with Hungary. An attempt to assimilate German and Hungarian national minorities into Romanian society resulted in severe cultural discrimination. Post-CommunismThe National Salvation Front (NSF), the governing body of Romania after the fall of the Ceausescu regime, won the spring 1990 election. Its leader and former Romanian Communist Party member Ion Iliescu became Romania’s second president. By the end of 1990, Iliescu’s government failed to implement efficient economic reforms, escalated interethnic tensions, and emigrated large numbers of ethnic Hungarians and Germans. The international community continually criticized the regime for using force to suppress dissent. Despite pressure, Iliescu’s government prosecuted only a small number of former secret police. NSF reorganized the Securitate into the Romanian Intelligence Service and reemployed many of its former members. Securitate archives remained closed until 2000. However, two of the largest parties in Romania, the Social Democratic Party and the National Liberal Party, emerged from the NSF.
General Romania subject files contain materials on religious persecution, human rights activity, state religious policies, atheist propaganda, communist ideology and dissident activity.
Denominational Romania subject files contain categories similar to the general subject files with the focus on a particular denomination and individual prosecution cases of believers and clergy.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Granma. Again Batista forces killed many of the fighters. However, Castro escaped with a dozen men and began a guerilla campaign. With the growing resistance, an unstable military force, and international pressure, Batista fled Cuba on January 1, 1959, and Castro took control. Although initially supporting the revolution, United States ties became tense soon after Fidel Castro took power. Diplomatic relations between the two countries officially dissolved in 1961. The US imposed sanctions leading to a total ban on trade that continued into the 21st century. In 1961, the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion further strained relations. The Invasion was an attempt by the US government to arm militant Cubans in an effort to overthrow the Communist regime. The Cuban Missile Crisis, also known as the October Crisis, occurred because Cuba agreed to allow the Soviet Union to deploy missiles on the island. The United States established a naval blockade that isolated Cuba from the Soviet shipments. The stalemate continued until delicate negotiations resulted in the Soviets agreeing to remove missiles already in Cuba while the United States pledged not to invade Cuba without provocation and to remove US missiles from Turkey. Many Cuban citizens fled under Castro’s socialist regime. Over several decades, they found homes in countries such as Spain, Mexico, Italy, and Canada.
Cuban Jews were allowed to emigrate to Israel, and the majority of the island’s 10,000 Jews eventually left. Between 1959 and 1993, nearly 1.2 million Cubans relocated to the United States. In 1965, Cuba and the United States agreed to permit Cubans to emigrate, and by 1971, more than 250,000 Cubans had traveled to the United States on so-called “Freedom Flights.” During the 1970s and 1980s, the island nation became embroiled in international conflicts. Desiring to spread its revolutionary ideals, Cuba aided in conflicts throughout Africa and in South and Central America. Cuba provided military support, as well as assistance with health and education. In some cases, young people from these countries were educated in Cuba. Ultimately, Cuba supported 17 liberation movements, including those in Angola, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, and the Congo. The Angolan Civil War and the Ogaden War, also known as the Ethio-Somali War, saw tens of thousands of troops on the ground. Cuban support in other nations included aid, military training, and weapons. In 2008, after ruling Cuba for nearly 60 years and in ill health, Fidel Castro stepped down as president. His younger brother Raúl succeeded him as president. Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz died on November 25, 2016.
General Cuba subject files contain information on history, Fidel Castro, government, church-state relations, oppressive practices and political prisoners, international relations, emigration, communism, human rights, religion, children and culture.
Cuba’s denominational subject files include categories pertaining to particular denominational activities within the country.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston obtained materials documenting the religious and political climate in the German Democratic Republic between 1951 and 2004. During the Potsdam Conference in 1945, Allies divided Nazi Germany into four occupation zones. In 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany, commonly called West Germany, was formed as the previously occupied area gained independence from the United States, Great Britain and France. In 1946, the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, also known as the SED, was formed under order from Joseph Stalin to govern the Soviet occupied zone. The German Democratic Republic (GDR), commonly called East Germany, was formed in 1949 from the part of Germany occupied by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR). Wilhelm Pieck became East Germany’s first president. The eastern border of the German Democratic Republic was the Oder-Neisse Line and the GDR surrounded West Berlin. The United States posed the greatest threat to the German Democratic Republic. Therefore, the GDR issued anti-imperialist and anti-capitalist messages which were broadcast in various media and taught in schools. Communists also promoted state atheism, and in 1957, East Germany created the State Secretariat for Church Affairs to ensure adherence to atheism and to suppress religion in the arts, literature, and the media.
Many political dissidents fled to West Germany while other citizens left because of religious policies. Thus, the GDR constructed the Berlin Wall in 1961 to fortify the border between East and West Berlin. The German Democratic Republic became focused on creating a new identity that was separate from Prussia. Even while endeavoring to separate itself from its Prussian history, the GDR maintained close ties with both the Soviet Union and West Germany, despite strict immigration laws. Ties between East and West Germany strengthened between 1971 and 1985 which is commonly referred to as the Honecker era after Eric Honecker, General Secretary of the Social Unity Party. During this period, the two countries did not refer to each other’s citizens as foreigners even though the Deutsche Grenzpolizei (German Border Police) and the Stazi (Ministry of State Security) actively monitored relationships between citizens of East and West Berlin. The year 1989 brought rapid political change. In May, tensions rose in East Germany after the public learned of rigged government elections. Significant numbers of citizens again attempted to flee the country to Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Austria, and West Germany. Others stayed and protested the ruling party. Results of the German Democratic Republic’s first truly free parliamentary elections in March 1990 led to a governing coalition engineered by the Alliance for Germany which had won the most seats but not a majority in the Volkskammer (unicameral legislature). The Alliance had campaigned on a platform of rapid reunification. Mikhail Gorbachev’s Soviet programs of perestroika and glasnost also appeared to accelerate change in the region, and on October 3, 1990, East and West Germany were unified into the Federal Republic of Germany.
General GDR subject files contain materials on religious persecution, state religious policies, communist ideology, political leaders, religious publications, and international affairs.
Denominational GDR subject files contain categories similar to the general subject files with the focus on a particular denomination and individual prosecution cases of believers and clergy.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents dating between 1970 and 2003 reflecting the political and religious climate of Cambodia. After gaining independence from France in 1953, the Kingdom of Cambodia was established under King Sihanouk. Two years later Sihanouk stepped down, allowing his father to become king while he remained the head of the government. After his father’s death in 1960, Sihanouk became head of state but did not return to the throne. During the Vietnam War, North Vietnamese and Vietcong troops used eastern Cambodia to launch attacks into South Vietnam. Discontent with the North Vietnamese settlement in Cambodia and the Communist guerrilla movements, the Khmer Rouge began pressuring the government in Phnom Penh to take action. In 1970, while Sihanouk was abroad, General Lon Nol led a coup that overthrew the government. Lon Nol installed himself as president of the Khmer Republic, also called the State of Cambodia, and sent the army to fight the North Vietnamese.
Cambodia reached a peace agreement in 1973 that called for the withdrawal of foreign forces. However, the fighting continued. Lon Nol’s rule was short lived. In 1975 (Year Zero), the Khmer Rouge led by Pol Pot occupied the Cambodian capital city of Phnom Penh. Sihanouk was briefly reinstated as head of state and renamed the country Kampuchea. Shortly thereafter, Khieu Samphan replaced him, and Pol Pot became prime minister. Renaming the country Democratic Kampuchea, Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge remained in power until 1979. Under the Khmer Rouge, city dwellers were forcibly moved to the country in an attempt to transform Cambodia into a Marxist agrarian society. With the move, money became worthless, and basic freedoms were curtailed, including freedom of religion. Those who showed signs of education were frequently tortured or executed, and ultimately hundreds of thousands of the educated middle-class were exterminated. Consequently, most of Cambodia’s professional and technical classes disappeared. Disease, starvation, and exhaustion killed many more. An estimated 1.7 million deaths occurred during Pol Pot’s regime. While Cambodia was ruled by Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge, fighting broke out between Vietnam and Cambodia. In January 1979, Vietnam seized Phnom Penh. Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge fled to the border with Thailand. The Vietnamese established the People’s Republic of Kampuchea, and the country attempted to return to life before the Khmer Rouge. However, during the Vietnam backed government control, hundreds of thousands of people became refugees as guerrilla warfare tore across Cambodia. Even when the pro-Vietnamese Kampuchean People’s Revolutionary Party won the 1981 parliamentary elections, the international community refused to recognize the new government. The United Nations continued to recognize the exiled Khmer Rouge and Sihanouk as the rightful authority. Hanoi-backed Hun Sen became prime minister in 1985. By 1989, an agreement between the warring factions was reached, and Vietnamese troops began withdrawal. Hun Sen abandoned socialism to attract foreign investors. The country was renamed the State of Cambodia, and Buddhism was reinstalled as the state religion. With the signing of the 1991 Paris Peace Accords, parties vying for control agreed to share power temporarily, and Sihanouk again became head of state. In the 1993 general election, the royalist political party, FUNCINPEC (Front uni national pour un Cambodge indépendant, neutre, pacifique et coopératif), won the majority of the seats, followed by Hun Sen’s Cambodian People’s Party. A multi-party coalition was formed with FUNCINPEC’s Prince Norodom Ranariddh as prime minister and Hun Sen as deputy prime minister. Sihanouk returned to the post of king, and the name returned to the Kingdom of Cambodia. The 1993 election ended the Khmer Rouge’s representation in the United Nations. In 1994, thousands of Khmer Rouge guerrillas surrendered with assurance of government amnesty. King Sihanouk granted amnesty to Ieng Sary, the deputy leader of the Khmer Rouge who formed a new party. In 1997, Hun Sen mounted a coup against Prime Minister Ranariddh.
That same year, the Khmer Rouge put Pol Pot on trial and sentenced him to life imprisonment where he died in April 1998. July 1998 also saw another round of elections as Hun Sen became prime minister and Prince Ranariddh became the president of the National Assembly.
With the turn of the millennium, Cambodia enacted a law allowing charges to be brought against Khmer Rouge leaders. Trials continued for many years, and in 2016, a United Nations-backed tribunal upheld the convictions and life sentences of Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan, holding them responsible for murder and crimes against humanity in the deaths of perhaps as many as 2.2 million Cambodians.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents dating between 1964 and 2004 reflecting the political, as well as the religious climate of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) or North Korea. Following World War II, the Korean peninsula was split between the northern DPRK under Soviet-sponsored communist control and the southern US-backed Republic of Korea. North Korea was established as a communist regime in 1948 under the leadership of Kim Il-Sung. In 1950, South Korea declared its independence which led to North Korea’s invasion and the beginning of the Korean War. After reaching an armistice in 1953, North Korea saw a period of significant industrial growth. During the 1980s, North Korea was linked to acts of terrorism against South Korea, including the bombing of Korean Air Flight 858 and an assassination attempt on President Chun Doo-hwan in Rangoon, Burma (now Myanmar). With nuclear arms becoming an increasing concern for world leaders, North Korea signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1985 which barred the country from producing nuclear weapons. However, the following year a research nuclear reactor became operational at the Yongbyon Nuclear Science Center. The 1990s saw heightened tensions between North and South Korea. The United Nations accepted both nations for membership in 1991. In the 1980s, Kim Jong-il had been designated to succeed his father, and when Kim Il-sung died in 1994, Kim Jong-il became supreme leader of the DPRK. In 1996, North Korea experienced widespread famine and floods, and an estimated 3 million died.
That same year, North Korea announced it would no longer abide by the armistice that ended the Korean War, and thousands of troops entered the demilitarized zone. A landmark inter-Korean summit took place in 2000. At the meeting in Pyongyang, North Korean leader Kim Jong-il and South Korean President Kim Dae-jung paved the way for reopening border offices and facilitating family reunions. Although the summit brought hope of cordial relations, the following decade saw military and political battles between North Korea, South Korea and the rest of the world. In 2002, United States President George W. Bush labeled North Korea part of an “axis of evil” along with Iraq and Iran. In 2003, nearly 20 years after signing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, North Korea withdrew from the agreement. Within a year, Pyongyang declared the reprocessing of 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods, providing enough weapons-grade plutonium to develop six nuclear bombs. In 2005, North Korea admitted to the production of nuclear weapons for “self-defense.” The following year, the country tested its first nuclear weapons at an underground facility. In response, the UN imposed economic and commercial sanctions. In 2007 because of significant economic issues, North Korea agreed to shut down its main reactor at Yongbyon after receiving 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil as part of an aid package. The North appealed for flood relief, and South Korea sent nearly $50 million in aid. In 2008, the United States removed North Korea from the terrorism blacklist in exchange for providing full access to the Yongbyon nuclear site. After launching a long-range rocket carrying what was described as a communications satellite, neighboring countries accused North Korea of testing long-range missile technology. These actions led to condemnation by the United Nations Security Council followed by North Korea walking out of six-party talks and officially restarting its nuclear facilities. Kim Jong-il suffered a stroke in 2008, and after his death in 2011, his son Kim Jong-un became the supreme leader of North Korea.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. With materials dating from 1973 to 1999, Keston collected documents reflecting the political, as well as the religious climate of Mozambique. Formerly a Portuguese colony, the African country of Mozambique gained its independence in 1975, coming under the rule of a single-party governmental system. The Marxist Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO) became the ruling party with Samora Machel as president. In response to the Communist regime, anticommunist forces raged a civil war funded by South Africa and Rhodesia, later Zimbabwe. The battle between the rebel group, the Mozambique National Resistance (RENAMO), and the Marxist government led to the displacement of approximately 4 million people. Another million individuals died of violence, famine or disease before the conflict formally ended in 1992. Joaquim Chissano ascended to the presidency following Samora Machel’s sudden death in an airplane crash in 1986. Chissano, who served as president until 2004, abandoned Marxism in 1989. The following year, the country amended the constitution to allow multiparty elections, a free market economy, and lessening restrictions on religious groups. In 1992, during Chissano’s presidency, the government and RENAMO reached a peace agreement that ended the civil war.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents dated from 1968 to 2002 reflecting the political and religious climate in Vietnam.
 China ruled Vietnam from the 3rd century BC until the 10th century AD. After a prolonged period of independence, Vietnam fell under French imperial control in the nineteenth century but regained independence in the First Indochina War (1941—1954). Although independent, Vietnam experienced political interference from Western nations, especially the United States, over matters such as elections, land reform, and social reform. Ultimately in 1965, a Western-approved government under Ngo Dinh Diem was ousted and replaced by a military régime. Internal fighting, especially against growing Viet Cong forces, became known as the Second Indochina War. Due to mounting global tensions between democracy and Communism, the U.S. entered the conflict, resulting in the Vietnam War. Saigon, Vietnam’s most populated city, “fell” in 1975 to Communist forces and was renamed Ho Chi Minh City after the nation’s Communist leader. Religious repression became increasingly evident. The government restricted worship in an effort to diminish time spent on activities outside the Communist agenda. The edict created tension between the Vietnamese government and religious groups, including Buddhists and Roman Catholics. Additionally, a mass emigration movement from Vietnam occurred following the War and lasted until the mid-1980’s. Many citizens fled or attempted to flee. They were sometimes referred to as “boat people” because of their escape on boats. The journeys were incredibly dangerous, often resulting in mass casualties or repatriation to Vietnam. Vietnam continues as a one-party Communist state.
General Vietnam subject files contain material on history, government, oppressive practices, political prisoners, international relations, emigration, communism, tourism, literature and culture.
Vietnam’s denominational subject files include categories pertaining to specific denominations. These include Seventh Day Adventists, Baptists, Buddhists, Episcopalians, Evangelicals/General Protestants, Jewish communities, Mennonites, Muslims, Roman Catholics, and Quakers.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents dating from 1979-2002 on the political and religious climate in Afghanistan. In 1978, the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan took control of the country. Soon thereafter, those opposing the Communist regime launched a civil war. These guerrilla mujahedeen, backed by the United States, fought against the government that was aided by Russia. The country was plunged into turmoil with various leaders assassinated and quickly replaced by the Soviets. Many fled the country, and many more died in the civil war. Between 1989-1992, President Najibullah, also known as Mohammad Najibullah, tried to calm the civil war and emphasized an Islamic government. However, after Pakistan attacked Jalalabad with the mujahidin and with the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Najibullah was removed from power in 1992. After Saudi Arabia and Iran backed various Afghan militias, fighting increased. In 1994, the Taliban took control of the southern regions of Afghanistan. In 1996, they took Kabul. The Taliban introduced strict enforcement of Sharia Islamic law and established the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in 1996. Between 1996 and 2001, al-Qaeda began to emerge. On September 9, 2001, Afghan mujahedeen political and military leader Ahmad Shah Masoud died in the Panjshir Province of wounds inflicted by two suicide bombers. Two days later, the United States was attacked, prompting an American invasion of Afghanistan to remove the Taliban from power.
This series is of the General Subject Files of Afghanistan, including historical background, important individuals, and the military. It is in good condition.
This series contains one folder on the denominations of both Christianity and Judaism in Afghanistan. It is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. From the early 1970’s through the early 1990’s, Keston collected materials and documents created by and related to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty According to the Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty website https://www. rferl. org, the news service was founded in 1949 near the beginning of the Cold War to transmit uncensored news and information to audiences behind the Iron Curtain. The United States Congress funds RFE/RL through the Broadcasting Board of Governors, a bipartisan federal agency that oversees all U.S. international broadcasting services. Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty provides news, information and analysis in 25 languages to 23 countries in Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Middle East, serving as one of the world’s most comprehensive news operations in the world. More than 400 full-time journalists report from the front lines, often putting their lives at risk in the fight for media freedom. They report information, host briefings and special events from both Washington, D.C. and Prague in the Czech Republic. The stated “mission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) is to promote democratic values and institutions by reporting the news in countries where a free press is banned by the government or not fully established. RFE/RL’s journalists provide what many people cannot get locally: uncensored news, responsible discussion, and open debate.” The Poland series contains Situation Reports, RAD Background Reports, BBC Current Affairs Talk and Research Info., Polish Independent Press Summary, and miscellaneous articles.
The Czechoslovakia series contains Situation Reports, RAD Background Reports, Press Surveys, Subject Indexes and Miscellaneous Reports.
The Romania series contains Situation Reports and Subject Indexes.
The Eastern Europe series contains Weekly Records of Events in Eastern Europe.
The Other Areas series contains RAD Background Reports, Situation Reports, Foreign Relations, Party Relations, and Subject Indexes.
The Soviet Union series contains Soviet Area Audience & Opinion Research, Monthly Index of Background Reports, and Situations Reports, Subject Indexes.
Nadezhda Aleksandrovna Teodorovich (nee Abramova) (1907 — 1979) was born in 1907 in Belorussia. She attended Minsk Pedagogical University and graduated from Belorussian Medical University. During the German occupation in 1942, Teodorovich founded the Union of Belorussian Youth. The following year, the Nazi government legalized the organization. In 1944, Teodorovich moved to Munich where she lived until her death in 1979. Teodorovich converted from Eastern Orthodox to Catholic after she emigrated, becoming a member of St. Nicholas Russian Catholic Church of Byzantine Rite in Munich. From 1951 to 1972, she worked as a researcher for the Institute for the Study of the USSR and published the journal “Religion and Atheism in the USSR.” Radio Liberty also employed Dr. Teodorovich who was known for her nationalistic and anti-communist views.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Gdańsk Agreement of 1980. The authoritarian government of Poland declared martial law in December 1981, and imposed drastic restrictions until July 1983. Numerous labor leaders were imprisoned and some were killed. Eventually, the All-Poland Alliance of Trade Unions stabilized the trade organizations. Communism fell in Poland in 1989. Lech Wałęsa, who had served as chairperson of Solidarity and been imprisoned himself, became the first freely-elected president of Poland since the 1920s. In 1999, Poland became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) along with the Czech Republic and Hungary.
This series includes historical background, important individuals, governmental structure, martial law, oppressive practices, censorship, international relations, and opposition movements.
This series includes information on the Roman Catholic Church, Judaism, and Anti-Semitism following World War II. The Roman Catholic files are the most extensive and contain information from general history of the church to detailed information on particular members of the clergy, including Pope John Paul II, Cardinal Josef Glemp, Fr. Stanislaw Malkowski, Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, and others.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston obtained materials from Chile starting in 1970. That year, Chileans elected Marxist activist Salvador Allende (in full Salvador Allende Gossens) as president. Allende had run unsuccessful campaigns in 1952, 1958 and 1964. Under his socialist regime, the state moved to redistribute land and wages as well as to control industry and religion. Growing ties with the Soviet Union led to strain in United States relations.
Additionally, Allende commandeered American based copper companies without reparation. The government’s actions led to inflation, food shortages, and unrest. In 1973, a military coup led by Augusto Pinochet (in full Augusto Pinochet Ugarte) overthrew Allende. Pinochet, who held power for almost 20 years. Under his regime, thousands of Chileans were executed, exiled, imprisoned, or tortured. Although the economy stabilized, advocates for human rights protested his leadership. Pinochet stepped down in 1990 but continued as Army Chief of Staff until 1998.
Chileans elected Christian Democrat Patricio Aylwin (in full Patricio Aylwin Azócar) to succeed Pinochet. Under his leadership, Chile returned to democracy, enacted human rights reform, and stabilized international trade.
Chile subject files contain materials on military actions, coups, Marxism, Pentecostals, Salvador Allende, Luis Corvalan, political parties, and human rights campaigns. It is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist and totalitarian countries. The Keston Archive and Library houses numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (The Journal of the Moscow Patriarchate. In the late 1950s, Nikita Khrushchev initiated a new wave of persecution of the Church. His anti-religious campaign became known as the most severe and brutal in history. The government demolished, abandoned, converted to warehouses, or diverted Church buildings for other uses. They arrested, tried, sent to GULAGs, or committed to psychiatric institutions Orthodox clergymen and believers. Aggressive anti-religious propaganda included atheist literature and textbooks, periodicals, public lectures, museum exhibits, documentaries, and posters. The Soviet government controlled all the aspects of cultural life. Strict censorship led to the publication of underground literature or Samizdat. In the late 60s, individuals began to protest the situation of the Russian Orthodox Church and its dioceses. The 1970s and 1980s marked the rise of Orthodox opposition and an increase of underground religious activity among members of the Orthodox Church. Religious opposition groups included, but were not limited to, Alexander Ogorodnikov’s Christian Seminar, Father Gleb Yakunin’s Committee for the Defense of Believers’ Rights, Maria Group, and “37.” Additionally, KGB agents heavily infiltrated the Orthodox hierarchy and secured internal control of the Church. Persecution of the Russian Orthodox Church continued until the mid-1980s but declined with Mikhail Gorbachev’s Perestroika. Gradually Church property and rights were restored. In 1988, the Russian Orthodox Church enjoyed the state’s support in celebrating the Millennium of the Baptism or Rus’. Improving church-state relations continued after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
General Orthodox Subject Files contain materials pertaining to the situation of the Russian Orthodox Church and persecution of Orthodox believers under the Communist regime. This series is in good condition.
Samizdat Orthodox Subject Files contain materials pertaining to the persecution of Russian Orthodox believers fighting for their freedom of religion. The materials include unofficially circulated documents, reports, appeals, addresses, original and translated literary works, and other materials which never passed through Soviet censorship and were not officially published. This series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston received documents dating from 1954-2000 concerning the political and religious climate in the Soviet Islam community The Muslim communities in the Northern Caucasus’ and Central Asia inhabited lands generally viewed as the last remnants of the Mongol Empire. After the Russian empire conquered the Siberian Khanate and its tributaries at the end of the 17th century, it turned toward the last frontier, the Northern Caucasus and Central Asia. Beginning in the 19th century, Imperial Russia conducted an aggressive campaign to annex the lands surrounding the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea. After several decades of fierce fighting, mass genocide and forced migrations of Muslim communities in the affected areas a brief, uneasy peace transcended on the region. In the early 1920’s, the Bolsheviks and the victorious Red Army sought to reconquer the Northern Caucasus and Central Asia. The area had gained autonomy during the chaos of the Civil War (1917-1922). By the late 1920’s, the area was incorporated into a conglomerate of Soviet Social Republics (SSR’s). During the Great Patriotic War (1941-1945), many men from the SSR’s were drafted into the Soviet Army. Meanwhile, Joseph Stalin distrusted the loyalty of the ethnic groups in the Northern Caucasus and the Crimea. He initiated mass deportation of numerous ethnic groups, including Chechens, Crimean Tatars, and Meskhetian Turks and placed them in harsh conditions in Central Asia. The files from the collection begin in 1954, shortly after Joseph Stalin’s death in March 1953. The following leader of the Soviet Union, Nikita Khrushchev, sought to undo many of Stalin’s reactionary policies in the Caucuses and Central Asia. He focused on increasing party control and rebuilding infrastructure in the area. Khrushchev faced the problem of Islam as both a religion and a national identity. He was also forced to deal with increasing concern over the Muslim birthrate, which far succeeded that of the Great Russian. Statisticians predicted that by the year 2000, the Muslim people would constitute over a quarter of the Soviet population. Khrushchev conducted atheist campaigns and forbade traditional Muslim practices, including the use of kalym or bride payment, the elimination of blood feuds, and traditional burial practices. He also ordered more aggressive policies, such as closing mosques, making holy sites into atheist museums, and making it illegal to possess a Koran. However, the Soviets could not totally deny the presence or importance of Islam. Through “official” Islam, or state-controlled religion, Soviet ideology was spread using Islamic religious boards and hosting international conferences on Islam. Religious boards, which were established as governing bodies during the Great Patriotic War, controlled four distinct regions. Leadership of these regions was centered in Baku, Ufa, Alma-Ata, and Dushanbe. Only through approval of boards could official copies of the Koran be published, and new mosques established. In the 1960’s and 1970’s, the Soviet Union hoped to capitalize on a wave of Pan-Islamism and Pan-Arabism prevalent in the Middle East and Northern Africa. The country hoped to assert Soviet influence by correlating these “isms” as achievable through Communist ideology. The Soviet Union touted its role as the fifth largest Islamic country in the world. Strategically referencing this position, the country attempted to insert itself into the Arab and Islamic worlds by hosting international conferences on Islam. The first conferences were held in the 1970’s and intermittently throughout the next decade. The two most notable conferences met in Tashkent (1980) and Baku (1986). 1980 was a perilous year for Soviet propaganda in Muslim communities. Soviet officials expressed increasing concerned over the new revolutionary government in Iran, which had taken control after the Shah was disposed in 1979. Specifically, Soviets were leery that unrest would stir Muslim populations in the Soviet Republics on Iran’s border. Simultaneously, the Soviet Union faced a public relations problem in the Islamic international community after its invasion of Afghanistan. However, most Islamic countries boycotted the Tashkent Conference, which was meant to eliminate concerns over Soviet intentions in Afghanistan and its SSR’s. The 1986 Baku Conference, labeled “Muslims in the Fight for Peace,” fared slightly better. To counter negative perceptions, Soviet policy toward Islam dramatically shifted in the 1980’s. Old mosques were restored, and a limited number of Korans and other Islamic literature was published. By the 1980’s, atheist agitators were still present in the Northern Caucasus and Central Asia, but official Soviet policy no longer sponsored reeducation drives. To improve its image, the USSR formed the International Department of Muslim Organizations of the USSR in 1984. The new department head, Mufti Schams-ud-Din Babakhum, was directed to show the international community that Communist Soviet Union tolerated religion and atheism did not oppose the principles of Islam. When Mikhail Gorbachev took power in 1990, he tried to improve the standard of living in Central Asia by conducting an aggressive anti-corruption campaign. He directly linked the corruption to Islam to the failure of atheism to take hold in Central Asia. By 1991, relaxed Soviet policies toward Muslims and their general indifference toward atheism allowed Islamic religious practices to gain some autonomy. However, before Gorbachev could initiate new atheistic campaigns, the Soviet Union collapsed. The final documents in the collection show Islam in the aftermath of that collapse.
The papers and pictures reveal an active Muslim community adherent to the practices of Islam, which had remained actively present in the previous decades despites Soviet persecution.
This series contains files related to general Islam in the Soviet Union. They include fluctuating Soviet attitudes toward religion, atheist education attempts, and general persecution of Islam. These documents relate to the policies of “official” Islam, which was state ordained, and the unofficial Islam that was practiced illegally. This series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. From the beginning of the post-World War II period until approximately 2007, Keston obtained materials documenting the religious and political climate and persecution of the Ukrainian Catholic Church, also called the Ukrainian Uniate Church and the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church. Because of extreme persecution between 1949 and 1991, some referred to the body as “church of the catacombs.” The Ukrainian Catholic Church, the largest of the Eastern Catholic Churches in full canonical communion with the Roman Catholic Church, recognizes the Pope of Rome as the supreme earthly head of the Church but follows Eastern traditions in liturgy, spirituality, sacred art, and organization. The Ukrainian Catholic Church traces its origin to Byzantine Christianity established in Kievan Rus’ by St. Vladimir in 988. In the Great Schism of 1054, the Eastern Churches remained with the Patriarchate of Constantinople. Their union with Rome was restored in 1596 at Brest-Litovsk. By that time, Kiev and most of the territory of modern Ukraine had become part of the predominately Catholic Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Although the Orthodox were opposed, the union guaranteed that the Eastern Church’s traditional rites would be sustained. In the late 1600’s, Kiev returned to Eastern Orthodoxy, but the western territories of modern Ukraine continued practicing Eastern-rite Catholicism. Persecution of the Uniates began in the late 1700’s in Russian Empire-controlled territories. The tsarist government forced return to Orthodoxy, and the Ukrainian Catholic Church survived only in the province of Galicia which was controlled by the Austro-Hungarian Empire and later Poland. In 1939, Galicia became a part of the Soviet Union. After World War II, Soviet authorities suppressed the Church’s activities, which they viewed as Ukrainian nationalism and post-war Nazism. The Soviets pressured bishops to dissolve the Union of Brest-Litovsk and arrested, imprisoned, deported, or executed those who resisted. In March 1946, the Synod of Lvov ordered Ukrainian Catholics, particularly in western Ukraine and Transcarpathia, to become Russian Orthodox. Severe persecution resulted in the Ukrainian Catholic Church being almost eradicated. However, in 1989 the Church regained its legal status.
The series contains general information on the Ukrainian Catholic Church, especially as an underground church after 1946, and provides background on its context, culture, and persecution. Files are organized thematically and document not only the history but also the incarceration of key figures such as Cardinal Iosif Slipyj and attempts of later leaders such as Myroslav Lubachivsky to regain rights, alleviate persecution, and return to a relationship with the Vatican. The collection documents millennial celebrations and continued writings, activities, and incarceration of key leaders such as Yosyp Terelya and Vasyl Kobryn. A final section contains publications and information about events related to the Ukrainian Catholic Church in Canada.
The series contains the samizdat publication The Chronicle are included in their entirety.
Brian Eugene Regis Keleher (Ó Céileachair) was born on June 7, 1942, in New York City to Irish American parents James and Dorothy Keleher. His Roman Catholic baptism is registered at St. Michael’s Roman Catholic Church in mid-town Manhattan. He joined the Eastern Orthodox Church in February 1961, studied in St. Vladimir’s Orthodox Theological Seminary, and was ordained subdeacon in October 1964 by Bishop Dositheus (Mikhail Matveyevich Ivanchenko) in St. Demetrius Church in Jackson, Michigan. In 1966, he earned a B.A. in Political Science and Religious Studies from Michigan State University. Just over a year later, Bishop Dositheus ordained him as a priest in St. Nicholas Cathedral in New York City. Keleher took the name Serge. Shortly thereafter, the Church appointed him as Pastor of Holy Trinity Church in Baltimore, Maryland, where he served until 1970. In 1970, Archbishop Joseph Raya (Archbishop of Galilee, Palestine) reconciled him back to the Catholic Church, assigning him to the Ukrainian Catholic Eparchy of Toronto, Canada. From 1971-1974, he served several churches and missions in Ontario and rose to the rank of Archpriest in 1978. In 1980, he completed theological studies at the University of St. Michael’s College, University of Toronto, where he received an M.A. in Sacred Theology. Trips to Ukraine began in 1981, and in 1988, Keleher was named Mitrophoric Archimandrite. In the 1980’s, he worked as the private secretary to Bishop Isidore Borecky of Toronto and accompanied the Bishop to Ukraine, Poland, and Hungary in 1989. Fr. Serge moved to Dublin, Ireland, and occasionally served as a staff researcher specializing in the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church for Keston College in Oxford. While at Keston, he published , no.2 (1997) surveyed the historical conflicts between the Byzantine, Russian and other autocephalous Orthodox churches. During the 1990s and into the 21st century, he also served as spiritual father to the Ukrainian Greek Catholic community in Dublin where he died on November 11, 2011.
The Subject Files series contains newspaper and journal clippings, correspondence, hand written notes, and manuscripts covering theology, millennium celebration, church administration, Catholic-Orthodox dialog, and conversion to Orthodoxy.
The Collected Materials series contains published articles, liturgical texts, documents, and reports by various authors.
The Correspondence series contains personal correspondence between the Vatican, Keston, and Orthodox and Ukrainian Catholic Church leaders from the diaspora.
The Personal documents series consists of certificates of elevation to the rank of Archbishop, letters of appointments and promotions, legal documents, and financial statements from the period when Fr. Serge Keleher lived in Oxford, United Kingdom.
The Literary Production series contains copies of published articles, travel reports, and draft manuscripts.
The Printed Materials series contains Catholic, Ukrainian Catholic, and Orthodox publications from the Vatican, Canada, the United States, Russia, and Ukraine.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Religion under Communist RuleExarch Stefan, head of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, resisted government efforts to control church activities. He left office in 1948 and retired to a monastery under mysterious circumstances. His replacement allowed complete governmental control over religious activities, including legislation passed in 1949 that allowed state supervision for all religious orders. After the implementation of the legislation, 15 pastors from evangelical Protestant churches were arrested, tried, and executed for espionage and other alleged crimes. Soon after, a number of Bulgarian Catholic clergy were tried for spying for the Vatican and for disseminating anticommunist propaganda. Among the executed was Bishop Evgeny Bosilkov, beatified by the Vatican in 1998.
General Bulgaria subject files contain materials on religious persecution, human rights activity, state religious policies, atheist propaganda, communist ideology, publications, reports, Bulgarian culture, society, and dissident activity.
Bulgaria Denominational subject files contain materials on religious denominations, Christianity, Catholicism, Orthodoxy, Judaism, and Islam Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents dating from 1937 to 2018 regarding the religious, social, political, and economic changes in China. Republic of China, 1912-1949China entered a period of industrialization and modernization in 1912 with the overthrow of the Qing Dynasty during the Xinhai Revolution. The leader of this revolution, Sun Yat-sen, formed the Kuomintang Party, also known as the Nationalist Party of China.
After he died in 1925, his protegee Chiang Kai-shek took control of the Kuomintang and worked to consolidate his power within the party and throughout the country. During the late 1920’s, Chiang Kai-shek fought various warlords to win control of the entirety of China. Additionally, he ruthlessly removed and persecuted those who were peaceful but possessed different political ideologies than the Kuomintang Party. One of these persecuted groups, the Chinese Communist Party, was suppressed in 1927 during a violent incident known as the Shanghai Massacre. Communist members who survived began a series of revolts which instigated the Chinese Civil War. The Chinese National Army of the Kuomintang Party successfully put down these uprisings, and the surviving Communists fled for the mountains in the rural provinces, hoping to find peasant support. Remnants of the Communist army scattered throughout China, disconnected from one another and forced to survive in harsh conditions but still hopeful for victory in limited engagements with the National Army. To evade Chiang Kai-shek’s army, the largest remnant of the Communist Red Army, led by Mao Zedong, left Southern China near Hunan Province to join the Second and Fourth Red Army divisions in Northern China. Mao’s army marched nearly 5,550 miles in 370 days over treacherous mountain terrain to consolidate with other Red Army fragments. Over half of Mao’s army died on the march, but their sheer determination cemented the “Long March” as a major event and led to the rise of Mao Zedong as the leader of the party. In 1937, the Communist Red Army and the Kuomintang government joined together. The Japanese invasion of China forced these two warring Chinese forces to unite and defend their homeland. This brief reconciliation lasted until Japan’s defeat. In 1946, the Red Army resumed war against Chiang Kai-shek and the Kuomintang, and this time the Communists prevailed. Chiang Kai-shek and his supporters were forced to flee to Taiwan in 1949 and Mao marched into Beijing victoriously. The next decade was filled with drastic new political and religious implementations from Mao and the Communist Politburo. The Cultural RevolutionMao sensed that he had overstepped and initiated the Cultural Revolution in 1966 to restore his image and power base. His wife Jiang Qing, a former opera singer and actress, orchestrated the Cultural Revolution at the urging of her husband. When the Communists came to power in 1949, he appointed her to a leadership role in the Ministry of Culture. There she effectively suppressed media critical of Mao. After the failure of the Great Leap Forward, Mao decided that Chinese culture needed reform.
He appointed Jiang to the Central Cultural Revolution Group and placed her in the powerful Politburo. There she and three other members, collectively known as the Gang of Four, initiated a wave of repression against citizens deemed not revolutionary enough. She created the “Criticize Lin Campaign” and “Criticize Confucius Campaign.” The initial campaign was directed at Lin Biao, Mao’s second in command who died under mysterious circumstances in 1971 in a plane crash as he attempted to flee after a supposed coup. The “Criticize Confucius Campaign” stemmed from an attempt by the Gang of Four to discredit those who read Confucius, which were most of the Chinese leaders and Mao’s direct rivals. The Red Guards played an ominous role in advancing the Cultural Revolution. In the late 1960’s, Mao encouraged students to form paramilitary groups dedicated to him and the return to revolutionary principles. The Red Guards grew rapidly and essentially became a means to perpetuate the cult of Mao. Their revolutionary enthusiasm led them to quit their jobs, dedicate themselves to reading Mao’s teachings, and denouncing all who were deemed counter-revolutionary. The movement grew out of control. Red Guards roamed the streets destroying property and beating citizens who did not subjugate themselves to their whims. Mao realized the movement had metamorphized into something no longer convenient to his political image and sent the Peoples Liberation Army to suppress Red Guard factions. By 1970, millions of youth who had been part of the Red Guards were sent to work on collective farms as part of reeducation. Those who did not immediately succumb to the harsh elements were often permanently exiled to these farms. Leadership TransitionsMao Zedong died in 1976 although he had only been figurehead during his last year. The Gang of Four led by his wife Jiang handled day-to-day affairs. However, without Mao’s protection, Jiang and her co-conspirators were arrested. Hua Guofeng, Mao’s protegee and the new Communist Party Chairman, issued the arrest warrant. Hua served in this role for a short time before he was succeeded by Hu Yaobang. An energetic reformer who had been purged during the Cultural Revolution, he was supported by Deng (Teng) Xiaoping. Although Deng never held high Communist Party leadership positions such as Chairman or General Secretary, from 1978 to his death in 1997, Deng served as the shadow leader. A brilliant reformer, economist, and party member since the beginning, Deng attempted to introduce economic reforms in the early 1960s to fix the problems caused by the Great Leap Forward. Mao condemned his advanced thinking purged him from the party. Deng was rehabilitated in the mid 1960’s but again purged during the Cultural Revolution. Once in power, he opened China to foreign enterprises and investment and nearly single-handedly raised the standard of living. He believed socialism could co-exist with free enterprise and a capitalist market system. Under his leadership and reforms, China grew into an economic superpower. Deng’s reforms did not come without backlash and social unrest. The Communist Party was long rife with corruption, and many citizens were tired of a double standard and the numerous and often contradictory campaigns against bourgeois sentiments. In April 1989, Hu Yaobang died suddenly from a heart attack. Many viewed him as a reformer who eased censorship and put China on the road toward a more democratic system. Students gathered in Tiananmen Square for Hu’s funeral. They began to chant, asking Premier Li Peng to speak and promise to continue Hu’s reforms. Shortly thereafter, thousands of students and older citizens alike marched on Tiananmen Square officially protesting. The students remained in Tiananmen Square for the next month, and protests spread to other cities in China. In late May, the government declared martial law, and soldiers from the People’s Liberation Army marched on Tiananmen Square. In early June, tanks rolled into the Square. In the aftermath, hundreds of students died, though official reports say that no one was killed. Chinese citizens, and the rest of the world, watched stunned as the events unfolded. However, the soldiers succeed in squelching the protests and hope for democracy for China died with those students.
The General series contains materials related to the general history of China; Chinese leaders and legacies; international relations; post cultural revolution changes, both social and economic; family, education, and youth; communism and the Communist Party of China; political dissidents; law, courts, and prisons; human rights violations; religious persecution; house churches; social unrest and Chinese response; economics; everyday life; and media, arts, and literature.
The Denominational series contains materials related to specific Christian denominations, including Protestants, Catholics, Lutherans, Methodists, Presbyterians, Mennonites, Seventh Day Adventists, and Orthodox, as well as Judaism, Buddhism, Tibetan Buddhism (Lamaism), Confucianism, and Daoism.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. From the beginning of the post-World War II period until approximately 2007, Keston obtained materials documenting the religious and political climate and persecution of Registered Baptists in the Soviet Union, a minority group which suffered under communism from 1947 to 1989. The Soviet Baptist movement began about 1867 when the first Slavic Baptist, Nikita Voronin, was baptized in Georgia Although the Soviet Baptist Church has been a minority, it has had a powerful global impact. Though the Church has experienced brief periods of relative religious freedom during both the Lenin and Gorbachev eras, believers overall have experienced intense persecution in the officially atheist nation. Examples of Baptist persecution includes emigration complications, church repossession, job insecurity, house searches, imprisonment, and murder. Legally, the Baptist Church had religious freedom although the reality was complex. They had the right to assemble and an official national administrative organization, the All-Union Council of Evangelical Christian Baptists (AUCECB) with meetings every four years. However, they were denied the ability to have Sunday schools, bring their children to church, public evangelism, or owning a Bible in many cases. The rights were available to Baptist churches only if they registered with the state and complied with regulations. The reality varied by region and time period. Additionally, legislation was often slanted. For example, citizens could legally exercise the right to create atheistic propaganda but not religious advertising. Naturally, these created tensions. In 1961, tensions in the church climaxed, leading notable Baptist leader Georgi Vins to form a different type of Baptist church. He believed that the Baptist Church was too involved and compliant with the Soviet authorities and thus chose not to register his new Baptist church as a way to separate from both the national Baptist Church and the Soviet authorities. Thus, the Registered Baptist Church and the Unregistered Baptist Church known as “Initsiativniki” became two denominations. While reconciliation is a high priority for the AUCECB in the post-Soviet era and some unregistered churches have rejoined, the two Baptist groups are still divided. Important Representative EventsThe Registered Baptist General Files document the Church’s experience in the Soviet Union throughout the 20th century. This section details summaries of five carefully chosen events that best demonstrate the defining characteristics of the Soviet Baptist movement. These include the emigration case of Valeri Barinov, the murder and cover-up of soldier Viktor Sedletsky, the handling of visits from foreign officials, the controversy around AUCECB leaders such as Alexei Bychkov, and the reality of theological education for Baptists. Valeri Barinov was a 43-year-old rock musician and a fervent believer when he was sentenced to one of the worst labor camps in the Soviet Union. His crime was the secret production of “The Trumpet Call” which was a rock opera of the Gospel. Barinov spent years in almost complete isolation with no mail or family visits. Despite the circumstances, his spirit remained unbroken, and he experienced great spiritual success in converting other prisoners. Barinov spent years trying to secure emigration for himself and his family to England before international pressure finally convinced the Soviet government to allow his emigration in the mid-1980’s. Despite persecution, Barinov remained a vivacious force for God in the West and later returned as a missionary to the Soviet Union in the 1990’s. His case represents the strength and perseverance of the Baptist movement in the face of hardship and how with the help of foreign allies, Baptists were often able to secure some level of resolution to their governmental issues. Another case, that of Viktor Sedletsky, ended differently, perhaps because of the lack of international pressure. He was a young believer in his twenties when drafted into Soviet army. After months of coercion to renounce his faith, his commanders resorted to torture. Sedletsky remained steadfast, and as a result, tortured to death. His body was returned to his village in a coffin nailed shut with a KGB escort and an official story claiming he died in an accident during a military exercise. The village was outraged and demanded to see his body. Locals held the officers back as they pried open the coffin which revealed obvious torture wounds, including extensive bruising, missing fingernails, and rags in place of eyes. Officially, Viktor Sedletsky’s case file states that he died in an accident during training. The cases of Barinov and Sedletsky demonstrate how important foreign awareness was in securing justice for the persecuted. This naturally leads to the question of the condition of visits from the West. Official visits were relatively frequent, including those by Baptist World Alliance (BWA) officials, evangelist Billy Graham, and President Richard Nixon.
However, Soviet authorities carefully managed each trip. Delegations were shuttled to the Moscow Baptist Church, the only one in all of the city, for a rousing demonstration of religious freedom in the assembly of over 2,000 Baptists during a Sunday service. However, delegations were not given the opportunity to see other churches, and when religious protests occurred, they were concealed. The biased lens typical is summarized in the words of a believer during a protest against the 1970 visit of BWA President William Tolbert of Liberia, “Your visit was to the AUCECB -- a state shop window for religious freedomEL From the heights of a royal visit, it is of course difficult to notice the tears of the orphans and widows.” In this way, the reality of the Iron Curtain was visible even as foreign officials visited to ensure Baptists were granted religious freedoms. How did the Soviet government so effectively deceive during visits from foreign officials? The key was having men on the inside. Through the decades, there has been controversy around several AUCECB officials such as Michael Zhidkov, Ilia Orlov, Sergei Nikolaev, and most notably, Alexei Bychkov. All were accused of being KGB agents tasked with infiltrating the AUCECB as a way to control Baptist activity. Bychkov’s case is most notable as he was the General Secretary for the organization. He was also given a medal for religious activity and authority by the state. It is also worth noting that AUCECB delegations that visited abroad always consisted of men accused of being KGB agents. He claimed on many occasions that the Baptist Church was not persecuted, that only churches who didn’t comply with the state experienced difficulties. In this way, the Soviet government indirectly managed Baptist activity. Theological education also demonstrates difficulties Baptists faced. Often, they were not allowed to have official theological classes, only correspondence lessons through Moscow. For decades, Baptists fought for a theological seminary in Moscow which was finally built in the 1980’s. For some, international education was an option, and several ministers studied at seminaries in Germany or England. However, given the expense, the pastor of an individual church was often determined by a community vote on who had the greatest religious expertise. Some were as young as seventeen. Young adults stepped up not because they knew everything they needed, but simply because they were needed. The Registered Baptist Church in the Soviet Union was a minority with perseverance and spiritual vibrance that served as an inextinguishable light. Despite the state’s carefully curated image of religious freedom for foreign dignitaries and infiltration, Baptists continued to smuggle the truth to the West so that others, including the Keston Institute, could tell their story. Although they lacked theological education, they relied on God to guide them. The Registered Baptist Church thus was and continues to be an inspiration for believers around the world.
The Registered Baptist General Files document the history of the Registered Baptist Church in the Soviet Union, following both the issues they have faced as well as their growth in numbers and religious freedom. The documents are in good condition.
The Registered Baptist Samizdat Subject Files contain materials pertaining to the persecution of Registered Baptist Church members fighting for their freedom of religion. The most notable case is on the arrest and persecution of Russian Christian rock musician Valerii Barinov, the author of Christian rock opera “The Trumpet Call.” The files consist of unofficially circulated documents, reports, appeals, addresses, original and translated literary works, and underground religious literature which never passed through Soviet censorship and were not officially published. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. In the early 1960s, Keston began collecting materials on the persecution of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the Soviet Union. Jehovah’s Witnesses have been present in the Russian Empire at least since the end of the nineteenth century. In 1891, Charles Tate Russel, the founder of the movement, travelled to Russia where he met with several members. In the 1920s, larger groups and individual congregations of Jehovah’s Witnesses began forming. In 1940, their number significantly grew after the annexation of Western Ukraine and Bessarabia, which is now a part of Moldova, territories with established Jehovah’s Witnesses congregations. In the mid-1980s, the main centers of the movement were in Belorussia, Moldavia, and Ukraine. Jehovah’s Witnesses organizations and activities have been banned in the former Soviet Union. Authorities accused members of following orders of their American “masters,” engaging in spying and anti-Communist activities, refusing to serve in the Soviet army, and illegal Bible smuggling. The government launched an aggressive campaign against the movement in the media. Its members were arrested, imprisoned, and exiled to Middle Asia and Far East. In December 1991, under the 1990 law on Religious Freedom and Religious Organizations, Jehovah’s Witnesses finally received legal registration. However, even after the collapse of Communism, persecution continued. The 1997 Russian law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Association acknowledged Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, and Judaism as historically traditional religions in the Russian Federation. The law also set a new system for state registration of religious organization that made refusing or revoking registration of “not traditional” religions and denominations easier. The new law significantly affected Jehovah’s Witnesses because the denomination was considered a Western Christian religious organization of marginal faith. Numerous court cases resulted. A new wave of persecution began in 2009, after the Russian State Duma passed amendments to the 2002 Law on Countermeasures against Extremist Activity. Under the law, local government authorities began investigating Jehovah’s Witnesses’ literature and activities for extremism. In 2012, the government adopted new rules and regulations for nonprofit organizations which directly affected the group. The global organization headquartered in the United States received “foreign agent” status which subjected its members to legal and administrative measures. Five years later, the Russian Supreme Court declared Jehovah’s Witnesses an extremist sect. In August 2017, the Russian Department of Justice added them to the list of banned organizations. Under Russian laws, Jehovah’s Witnesses face ongoing persecution from authorities and hostility from citizens who consider them a dangerous sect that harms families and spreads religious hatred.
The series contains information on the everyday life and struggle of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the former Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia, including trial reports, court documents, and newspaper articles. The series is in good condition.
Michael Bourdeaux was born in 1934 in in the Cornish village of Praze-an-Beeble in England. After attending Truro School, he studied Russian as training for his National Service. He spent five years at St. Edmund Hall, Oxford University, reading Modern Languages and then Theology. A decisive moment in his life occurred in 1959, when the British Council selected him to the first-ever exchange program with the Soviet Union. During his year at Moscow University, persecution of religion recommenced under Nikita Khrushchev. Thereafter, he devoted his life to making known to the larger world what was happening in the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact countries. After ordination in the Church of England, Michael Bourdeaux, with support from others, founded in 1969 the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the name changed to Keston College in 1974. Keston collected and publicized details about religious persecution and church-state relations behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” Bourdeaux’s work highlighted the survival and later revival of religion during these years. At one time, Keston College employed 25 people, established the Keston News Service, produced more than 30 books, and published the journal, Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals as well as Keston College archives and papers of its founder and staff.
The Correspondence Series includes incoming and outgoing letters primarily related to Michael Bourdeaux’s publications, but also including letters with members of the Keston staff, and other individuals. The series is in good condition.
The Literary Works Series includes all those materials written, edited, or co-authored by Michael Bourdeaux. The types of documents in this series include manuscripts, clippings, and related correspondence. The series is in good condition.
The Templeton Foundation Materials Series include the 1984 Templeton Prize acceptance speech, correspondence between Michael Bourdeaux and Foundation officials, and print materials from the ensuing years. This series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. In the early 1960s, Keston began collecting materials on the persecution of Pentecostals in the Soviet Union. Various revivals around the world, including the Welsh Revival of 1904-1905 and the Azusa Street Revival in Los Angeles that began in 1906, inspired early Pentecostal evangelists in the Russian Empire. Prior to the 1917 Revolution that toppled the czar, the Orthodox Church worked alongside authorities to persecute marginalized religions. Pentecostals, in particular, risked persecution because of their contentious relationship with other Christian faiths. Such persecution was a precursor to what Pentecostals would experience following the 1917 Revolution and later during the formal anti-religious movement in the Soviet Union. The communist government subjected Pentecostal church members to harsh treatment, but rather than suppressing their faith, the opposite occurred. Prominent Pentecostal leader Gustav Schmidt wrote a series of articles describing revival that sprang from persecution. By 1930, more than 500 Pentecostal churches had been organized in the Soviet Union and Ukraine, largely due to the missionary zeal of the Pentecostal faith. The practitioners knew the risk of openly professing their faith but believed that the risk strengthened their relationship with Christ. Numerous Pentecostal leaders were arrested and imprisoned in Soviet labor camps where many died of malnutrition or disease before completing their sentences. In 1945, following World War II, a majority of Pentecostal churches in the Soviet Union were forced to unite with the All-Union Council of Evangelical Christian-Baptists (AUCECB) in order to be legally recognized by state authorities. During the merger, over 25,000 Pentecostals from 400 congregations joined the AUCECB. However, many resented the forced merger and refused legal recognition. They became known as “unregistered,” and suffered greater persecution than their legally recognized brethren. In 1971, Ivan Fedotov became the first unregistered Pentecostal Russian bishop after serving 18 years in prison camps. In the 1980’s, Mikhail Gorbachev enacted several laws regarding religion in the Soviet Union. One such law allowed emigration for religious minorities. Under the allowance, more than 350,000 Soviet Pentecostals emigrated to the United States. Many of the religious refugees continued to practice their faith in conjunction with Slavic Pentecostal unions. In spite of the migration, an estimated 1.2 million plus Pentecostals reside in the former Soviet Union today.
The Siberian Seven Materials series contains items pertaining to seven members of the Vashchenko and Chmykhalovs families from the Siberian city of Chernogorsk, who fled to the United States Embassy in Moscow to avoid persecution. From 1975 to 1983, the families lived in the Embassy waiting for Soviet authorities to issue permission to emigrate. The Campaign to Free the Siberian Seven was launched in the West in 1981. The crusade was organized by Danny Smith and sponsored by Buzz editor Peter Meadows served as chair of the campaign’s interdenominational committee. The materials were collected by Michael Rowe, an expert on Russian Protestants and a Keston representative on the Campaign Committee. Rowe actively participated in the Campaign and gained the trust of the Siberian Seven. Many of their original handwritten letters in the series are addressed to Michael Rowe and his family. The series is in good condition.
The series contains information on the history and persecution of the Evangelical Christian Pentecostal Church in the Soviet Union and oppressive practices against Pentecostal believers and their fight for the right to conscientious objection and emigration on religious grounds.
The series in good condition.
The series contains information on persecution of Evangelical Christian Pentecostal believers in the Soviet Union and their fight for the right to conscientious objection and emigration on religious grounds. The materials include unofficially circulated documents, testimonials, reports, letters, and appeals. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. In the early 1970s, Keston began collecting materials on the persecution of Seventh Day Adventists in the Soviet Union.
Seventh Day Adventist churches emerged in Eastern Europe in the 1880s. In Russia, the first Adventist converts appeared among German settlers on the Volga and in Ukraine. In 1886, well-known preacher Ludwig Richard Conradi helped begin the first Russian Adventist church in a German community in Crimea. The Tsarist government tolerated Adventist believers because they were not of Russian nationality, remained confined to their communities, and did not pose a threat to the Orthodox Church. As more Russians began sympathizing with Adventists, authorities subjected members of the “German sect” to censorship and surveillance. Conversion of Russian nationals to Adventism became illegal and punishable by arrest, interrogation, imprisonment, and/or exile. The situation improved in 1905 after events forced Tsar Nicholas II to form a constitutional monarchy. The constitution granted civil rights to Protestant denominations and legalized conversion from Orthodoxy to other religious creeds. In 1906, the Seventh Day Adventist Church received official recognition. Adventists began publishing religious literature, which previously has been supplied from abroad.
By 1914, the number of Adventists in the Russian Empire more than doubled. The outbreak of the First World War presented Russian Adventists with many challenges, including increased hostility from authorities because of the faith’s German origin and believers’ refusal to bear arms. A disagreement over the latter contributed to a split in the Russian Adventist Church and led to creation of the True and Free Adventist Church in the late 1920s. During the First World War, a number of Adventist ministers and elders were exiled to the inner areas of the Russian Empire because of their evangelical activities. Conscientious objectors were persecuted and sent to prison camps. Survivors were freed by the Bolsheviks after the 1917 Revolution. In an attempt to eradicate the Russian Orthodox Church which was considered their main ideological enemy, the Bolsheviks tried to gain support of Protestant denominations. During a short period of tolerance, Russian Adventists received exemptions from military service, established collective communes, openly evangelized, held religious classes, and published literature. The Russian division of the Seventh Day Adventist Church became the All-Union Council of Seventh Day Adventists. However, Soviet authorities prevented Russian representatives from participating in international meetings. Tolerance ended with the 1929 Law on Religious Cults, which restricted evangelization and religious education of children, imposed registration requirements on congregations, and encouraged service in the army. During the ensuing years, authorities arrested Adventist church leaders and sent them to labor camps, limited religious activities to church services on registered premises, closed churches, and banned publications. In 1928, a split within the official Russian Adventist Church resulted in creation of True and Free Seventh Day Adventists, an underground organization. Both registered and unregistered Adventists existed until 1960. At the beginning of Nikita Khrushchev’s anti-religious campaign, Soviet authorities abolished the official All-Union Council of Seventh Day Adventists, deprived the registered Adventists of centralized leadership, and nationalized all church property. The unofficial True and Free Seventh Day Adventists publicized the situation in the Soviet Union in the 1970s. They reached out to the international religious community during the 1978 Madrid Conference with documentation on Soviet state persecution. Their witness drew passionate support of Soviet dissidents of various denominations, including Aleksandr Ginsburg and Andrei Sakharov. Unfortunately, the lack of attention from official Adventists abroad discouraged True and Free Adventists from openly joining the religious dissent movement. Vladimir Shelkov, the most prominent leader of the True and Free Seventh Day Adventists, spent 26 years in Soviet gulags. He died in prison in 1980 at the age of 84. Registered Adventists openly rejected True and Free Adventists claims of state religious persecution. Because of the registered Adventists’ position, Soviet authorities lessened restrictions on the official Adventist Church in the 1970s by allowing publication of a monthly journal and limited religious literature, including articles by Helen White and sermons on peace. Soviet Adventist contact with Adventists abroad strengthened during the 1980s. Russian Adventist Church representatives began attending international conferences and hosted foreign delegations. In 1990, the Russian Adventist Church, under the leadership of Mikhail Kulakov, received official state registration and became an East-European Division of the General Conference of Seventh Day Adventists. The Russian Seventh Day Adventist Church celebrated its 100th Anniversary in the 1980’s, officially founded Zaoksky Adventist University in 1988, and established a publishing house in the Tula Region in 1995. The denomination maintains active membership in the International Association for Religious Freedom.
The series contains information on the history and persecution of the Seventh Day Adventist Church in the Soviet Union, including oppressive practices against Adventists and their fight for the right to religious freedom and conscientious objection.
The series contains information on the persecution of True and Free Seventh Day Adventist believers in the Soviet Union and their fight for the rights of conscientious objection and emigration on religious grounds. The materials include unofficially circulated documents, testimonials, reports, letters, and appeals.
Marite Sapiets was born in England on February 20, 1948, into a family that had emigrated from Latvia. Although her grandfathers were Latvian, her grandmothers were Russian. She spoke fluent English, Latvian, and Russian which she learned as an exchange student at Moscow University. Sapiets earned a master’s degree for her study of links between religious groups and the Russian intelligentsia. Marite Sapiets’ mother was a nurse. Her father Janis, an ordained pastor in the Latvian Lutheran Church in Scotland as well as a minister in the Church of Scotland, introduced her to Keston. In the 1970s, Rev. Sapiets headed the British Broadcasting Corporation’s research and information at Bush House and edited religious programming to the Soviet Union. Michael Bourdeaux recognized him as one of the founding members of Keston, and the College often consulted him on Soviet religious affairs. In 1975, Marite Sapiets joined the Keston staff as a research assistant for Michael Bourdeaux’s book She passed away on July 5, 2012.
The Photographs series consists of one folder containing copies of undated color images of Marite Sapiets and a 1976 black and white image of her father Janis Sapiets. The series is in good condition.
The largest series of the collection, Literary Works, includes correspondence, handwritten notes, draft manuscripts, research materials, and book reviews produced and collected by Marite Sapiets while working on her books, articles, and translations. Sapiets’ book on Adventists in the Soviet Union was published in 1990 as Keston book 32 under the title The Subject Files include newspaper clippings, manuscripts, photographs, print materials, and correspondence pertaining to the religious situation in the Baltic states and to Metropolitan Anthony Bloom and the Russian Orthodox Diocese of Sourozh in the United Kingdom. Marite Sapiets collected the Baltic states materials while she was monitoring religious rights issues in the Baltic countries of the former Soviet Union in the 1970s and1980s. Materials pertaining to Metropolitan Anthony and the Diocese of Sourozh were collected by Sapiets’ associate Michelle Mapp, who was a member of the Russian Orthodox Church in the United Kingdom and belonged to the Diocese of Sourozh during the time that Metropolitan Anthony was its leader. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. In the late 1960s, Keston began collecting materials on the persecution of Roman Catholics in the Soviet Union.
Oppression of the Roman Catholic Church in Russia and the USSR has a deep history. The divide between East and West occurred long before the first bricks were laid for the Berlin Wall, arguably in 1045 CE with the East-West Schism, or when the divide between the Roman Catholic and Greek Orthodox branches of Christianity became formalized in Europe. In the 16th century, Ivan the Terrible led anti-Catholic campaigns in Russian territories because authorities perceived Catholics as a threat to Eastern Orthodoxy. Anti-Catholic campaigns quieted during the reign of Peter the Great when Russian nobility made efforts to become more “westernized.” Anti-Catholic sentiment began again in earnest with the 1917 Revolution and formation of the communist state. After the Second World War, Josef Stalin attempted to infiltrate the Catholic Church in other Warsaw Pact countries. Oppression included allowing churches to operate as normal but with state-controlled clergy. Other than these so-called “national churches,” Roman Catholics experienced relatively peaceful lives under Stalin. His successor Nikita Khrushchev saw the Roman Catholic Church as a threat to the sovereignty of the communist state because the Church did not answer to the Soviet leader but rather to the Pope. Thus began a vicious propaganda campaign against Soviet Roman Catholics that utilized their own iconography and leaders. The Catholic Church had been inextricably linked to the West and therefore represented the enemy. Catholic churches in Soviet territory particularly suffered during Khrushchev’s anti-religious campaign. At the beginning of the 1917 Revolution, more than 500,000 Catholics in Russia professed their faith. At the start of the Second World War, Russia contained approximately 350 Roman Catholic parishes and two dioceses. Estimates suggest that fewer than 140,000 individuals adhere to Roman Catholicism in Russia today. The drastic decrease seems largely due to persecution during the anti-religious campaigns. Even contemporary Roman Catholic priests serving Russian parishes have been stripped of visas and forbidden to preach. The official anti-religious campaigns of Khrushchev during the 20th century thus spill over to the 21st century as many Roman Catholics still feel the pressure of persecution.
The series contains information on the history and persecution of the Roman Catholic Church in the Soviet Union, state oppressive practices against Roman Catholic believers and their fight for the right to freedom of consciousness. The series is in good condition.
The series contains information on the history and persecution of the Roman Catholic Church in Soviet Lithuania, oppressive practices against Catholic believers, and their fight for the right to religious freedom. The series is in good condition.
The series contains unofficially distributed information on persecution of the Roman Catholic Church and oppressive practices against Catholic believers in the Soviet Union. The materials include unofficially circulated documents of the Catholic Committee for the Defense of Believers Rights; trial records; believers testimonials, petitions, and appeals; and Lithuanian Roman Catholic underground publications. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports, and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Beginning with the crackdown on religion instituted during the Khrushchev era, conflicting ideas arose as to how the Baptist Church in the Soviet Union should proceed. When the Soviet government began pressuring Baptists to restrict activities such as allowing children to participate in religious worship, altar calls at the ends of services, and baptisms of those under age 30, some churches withdrew their membership in the All-Union Council of Evangelical Christians Baptists (AUCECB) and thereby were no longer registered with the government and created the Council of Churches of Evangelical Christians-Baptists (CCECB). Churches and individuals within the group became known as Unregistered Baptists or Initsiativniki.
Shortly after its formation, the CCECB applied to the Soviet government for registration. The request was denied, and the decades of persecution ensued. Oppressive practices included imprisonment, desecration of buildings, restrictions on the education of children, physical violence, and prohibition of publication or use of religious literature. Influential members were arrested and otherwise intimidated by the KGB and the Soviet government. These individuals included but were not limited to: Pastor Georgi Vins (Secretary Abroad of the CCECB), Pastor Nikolai Khrapov, Pastor Nikolai Baturin (General Secretary of the CCECB), Pastor Petr Rumachik (Vice-president of the CCECB), and Pastor Ivan Antonov (member of the CCECB). Their families were also KGB targets and were frequently arrested. As a result, the Council of Prisoners’ Relatives was created. This female-led group collected details on Unregistered Baptists who had been imprisoned and circulated the information throughout the Soviet Union and abroad. Therefore, appeals to foreign countries, official documents, and other publications are contained in the collection. Lidia Vins, mother of Georgi Vins, served as the organization’s president. Prohibition of printing religious texts and limited methods to spread the gospel plagued the Initsiativniki. Therefore, they created the Khristianin Press which created religious texts and writings from leaders to be circulated. Working with the printing was dangerous and led to many arrests. Although Unregistered Baptists in the Soviet Union faced persecution and significant barriers to religious freedom, they managed to smuggle some of their work to the West. Their efforts allowed their story to be heard by notable people, as evidenced by discussions in the U.S. Congress and in several international religious forums. Key Initsiativniki supporters from abroad included Radio Liberty, Friedensstimme, Amnesty International, the World Council of Churches, and the Keston Institute.
The Unregistered Baptist General Files document the history of the Unregistered Baptist Church in the Soviet Union, providing information on oppressive practices faced by the churches and individuals and the support they received transnationally. The series is in good condition.
The Unregistered Baptist Samizdat Subject Files contain materials pertaining to the persecution of Unregistered Baptist Church members fighting for their freedom of religion. The materials include unofficially circulated documents, reports, appeals, addresses, original and translated literary works, and underground religious literature which never passed through Soviet censorship and were not officially published. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. In the late 1960s, Keston began collecting materials on the persecution of Jews in the Soviet Union. Oppression of Jews in Russia and the USSR has a deep history. The predominately Orthodox population of Imperial Russia viewed Jewish religion as alien and considered Jewish initiative and progressive philosophy harmful to the traditional Russian world. With rare exceptions, authorities did not allow Jews to live in cities in central Russian regions and they could settle only within government designated territories. Therefore, Russian Jews formed large communities in Ukraine, Belorussia, Poland, and Lithuania. Oppressive state policies and popular prejudice and antisemitism resulted in the 1880s pogroms or violent riots. In 1905, Tsar Nicholas II signed a manifesto on religious tolerance which changed the popular opinion of Jews. The first Choral Synagogue opened in Moscow in 1906. After the fall of the Tsarist regime, the Provisional Government abolished designated territories and relaxed state antisemitic policies. Unfortunately, the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution marked the collapse of such ideals and disappointed Jews who were conscious of their religion, cultural history, and language and anxious to preserve their national identity and tradition. In the 1920s, authorities arrested, executed, and exiled many Jewish religious leaders in response to their attempt to create a reformed religious organization uniting Jewish communities in the USSR. Instead, the Soviet government attempted to create a state controlled alternative Jewish organization similar to the Orthodox “Living Church.” The attempt failed because of a protest campaign organized by Rabi Yosef Schneersohn, and the Soviet government responded with a wave of persecution. They declared proponents of Jewish consciousness and tradition as supporters of Western aggression. Attacks on old Jewish bourgeoisie and intelligentsia led to their almost complete disappearance. Authorities closed many synagogues and yeshivas and executed or sent to gulags rabbis and other Jewish religious leaders. Stalin’s party purges targeted old Bolsheviks loyal to Lenin who opposed antisemitism and resulted in the growth of antisemitic sentiments among party members. In the 1930s, the Jewish reformed movement almost ceased trying to avoid anti-religious persecution, Jewish believers stopped attending synagogues and distanced themselves from religious life. During World War II, the Nazis killed a vast majority of Hasidic Jews in Ukraine, Belorussia, and the western Russian territories. The state always included the loss of Jewish lives in general Soviet loses to avoid encouraging national consciousness. After the war, the Soviet government’s policy toward Jews changed to stop mass emigration. Authorities facilitated creation of Jewish cultural autonomy to control Jewish communities. The Jewish Autonomous District of Birobidzhan was created in 1928 in Khabarovskii Krai, on the border with China. In 1958, speaking of Birobidzhan District, Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev stated that the attempt to create a mass Jewish settlement was a failure, for which he blamed Soviet Jews, who never liked collective work and group discipline. In 1990, most of the District’s Jewish population emigrated. In 1947, the USSR supported the creation of the state of Israel. However, authorities deprived Soviet Jews the opportunity to contact or visit their historic territory. In the 1950s, official anti-Jewish measures included the closure of the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, arrest and trial of prominent doctors under the Doctors’ Plot, and prosecution of hundreds of Jews for “economic crimes.” Official antisemitism reemerged in the press. Increasing antisemitic sentiment prompted the beginning of a new Jewish national and religious identity movement. The movement developed alongside similar dissident religious movements in other confessions, included Jews who grew up in secular families but were conscious of their Jewish heritage, and led to the beginning of a mass exodus of Jews from the USSR in the 1970s. The Perestroika period was marked by the rise of chauvinist and nationalist organizations, like Pamyat, which became popular among people supporting Greater Russian nationalism and antisemitism. In the late1980s and early 1990s, members of extremist nationalistic organizations driven by racist and antisemitic sentiments targeted Jews, vandalized their cemeteries, and facilitated pogroms throughout the Soviet. State and republic authorities chose the policy of non-involvement and failed to recognize the criminal activity as race driven. By the mid-1990s, two competing central Jewish religious organizations formed in Russia: Congress of the Jewish Religious Organizations and Association and Federation of Jewish Communities. All Russian Jewish religious organizations were required to register with at least one of them to comply with the 1997 Russian Federal Law on the Freedom of Consciousness.
 The series contains information about oppressive state practices against Jews in the Soviet Union, discrimination against Jewish nationals, and their fight for basic human rights and freedoms. The series is in good condition. The series contains unofficially distributed information on discrimination and persecution of Jews in the Soviet Union. The materials include unofficially circulated trial records, petitions, appeals, and publications. The series is in good condition.
Katharine Murray earned a degree in French and Russian from Manchester University and in September 1972, joined the Center for Study of Religion and Communism (Keston College) staff where she focused on research and writing for publications. One article appeared in the first issue of the journal Jake (Hodder & Stoughton Religious, 1993; Thomas Nelson, 1995) and became a licensed Lay Reader in the Church of England in 1996. From 2002 until her retirement in 2015, Murray served as a joint director of Sundial Garden Ltd., a horticultural retail nursery based in Devon, UK.
The series includes a manuscript of a book about Russian Orthodox Priest Father Dmitry Dudko, an agreement with Lutterworth Press, correspondence, research materials, and notes. The series is in good condition.
David Clark was born in 1937 to a working-class family in Bristol where he won a scholarship to a grammar school and later to Cambridge. National Service in the RAF interrupted his schooling and included the Russian course at Crail in 1956 which proved providential many years later. After earning University degrees in classics and theology, Clark prepared for his calling in both scholarship and missions as a Bible translator. In 1965-66, Clark, his wife, and young daughter lived in the bush with the Ekpeye people group in the Niger delta analyzing the language and helping create a writing system in preparation for Bible translation. His publication Babes in the Jungle: A Year of Life in the Niger Delta (Fontes, 2019) shares that experience which was foundational in writing his doctoral dissertation on the Ekpeye language at the London School of Oriental and African Studies. Dr. Clark eventually became a translation consultant with the United Bible Societies and along with his family, spent 20 years in Thailand (two assignments), Papua New Guinea, and India. In 1991, the Clarks moved back to England to work in the European region, specifically in several former Soviet republics with a focus on minority Russian languages, including Yakut, Khakas, Tuvan, Kalmyk, and Chechen. He also served in shorter assignments with projects in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, and Kyrgyzstan, some of which were initiated by UBS’ partner organization, the Institute for Bible Translation in Moscow. Clark retired in 2002 but continued part-time until 2009. Materials in the collection include reports of Clark’s field trips and working sessions that illustrate how Bible translation flourished between 1992 and 2014, particularly in Russia, as well as related items, including photographs.
Correspondence between David Clark and Manuel Jinbachian and Anatoly Rudenko on the topic “Russian Study” as well as correspondence with John Dean and the circulation list concerning a conference in Windsor, England. The series is in good condition.
Reports of trips made by David Clark to attend translation seminars in Russia, Ukraine, Norway, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Belarus. The series is in good condition.
The series contains reports of seminars and group meetings held for those involved in reviewing translations. The series is in good condition. Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. From the beginning of the post-World War II period until approximately 2000, Keston obtained materials pertaining to persecution of Old Believers in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia. Persecution of Old Believers in Russia has a long history. They emerged as a group of dissenters in the 17th century schism within the Russian Orthodox Church. The Church divided over the liturgical reforms instituted by the Patriarch of Moscow Nikon in 1952-1967 and upheld by Russian Tzar Aleksei Mikhailovich Romanov. The dissenters, including both Orthodox clergy and lay people, opposed any changes to liturgical texts and church rituals. They identified themselves as “old ritualists” or “old believers” practicing traditional unchanged Orthodox faith as opposed to “new believers,” the followers of Patriarch Nikon. The official Russian Orthodox Church referred to the dissenters as “Raskolniki” (schismatics) and condemned them at the 1666-1667 Great Council. Rejected by the official church and persecuted by civil authorities, Old Believers mostly resettled in the remote regions of northern and eastern Russia where they practiced original church rituals and opposed change, including the reforms of Tzar Peter the Great. Large Russian Old Believers communities also formed in Ukraine and Belarus as well as abroad in Turkey and Latvia. Rogozhskoe Cemetery, founded during the reign of Catherine the Great in 1771, became a spiritual and administrative center of Old Believers in Moscow. The severe persecution Russian Old Believers experienced shortly after the 1666-1667 Great Council resulted in the elimination of the canonical clergy that supported the movement. Deprived of its hierarchy, Old Believers divided into “popovtsy” who accepted clergy defecting from the official Church, and “bespopovtsy” who let lay members assume certain clerical responsibilities. Persistent canonical and dogmatic differences within the two branches caused further division into “soglasiia” (concords). In the early 1900s, the number of concords exceeded 20. Old Believers benefitted from the 1905 Act of Religious Toleration which granted them important political, civil, and religious rights. Between 1905 and 1917, their communities grew stronger. Unfortunately, the Old Believers status remained illegal. They could not preach or teach in public schools and faced persecution for converting new believers to the “old faith.” Under the Soviet regime, persecution included confiscation of religious property and imprisonment or murder of clergy, and many smaller concords merged or were eradicated. In 1971, the Local Council of the Russian Orthodox Church rescinded the anathemas of the 1666-1667 Great Council and recognized the validity of the old rites. In post-Soviet Russia, Belaya Krinista Concord in Moscow became the largest and most influential Russian Old Believers community. The concord of priestly Old Believers represents the Russian Orthodox Old Believer Church. Its head, Metropolitan of Moscow and All Russia together with four local Archbishops, manage more than 200 parishes in central and eastern Russia, Ukraine, and Moldova. Other major Old Believer concords include Novozybkov beglopopovtsy, officially known as the Old Orthodox Patriarchate of Moscow and All Russia; priestless Old Believers Chasovennye; the marrying Pomortsy, officially known as the Old Orthodox Pomorian Church; the non-marrying Filippovtsy, officially Christians of Solovki and Old Pomorian Descendants; non-marrying Fedoseevtsy, officially, Old Pomorian Celibate Christian Community of Old Believers; Beguny or Stranniki, officially, True Orthodox Christians Itinerant; Spasovtsy or Netovtsy; Melkhesideki; and Edinoversty.
The series contains bibliographic references and general information on various aspects of the life of Old Believers in the former Soviet Union. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications ( The Russian True Orthodox (Catacomb) Church emerged in the 1920s as opposition to the official Russian Orthodox Church and included Orthodox hierarchs and clergy who refused to cooperate with Soviet authorities. For rejecting Metropolitan Sergius’ 1927 declaration on the official Russian Orthodox Church’s loyalty to the Soviet regime, the group faced severe persecution and members were forced underground. By the end of 1930s, the True Orthodox Church lost most of her hierarchs and clergy to execution and resorted to secret ordinations in camps and catacombs. Between 1943 and 1946, authorities discovered and eradicated many True Orthodox communities which clandestinely existed in remote locations in parts of the Soviet Union. Despite severe persecution, the Catacomb Church secretly held local Councils in 1928, 1948, and 1961. After World War II, the True Orthodox community “andreevtsy” founded by Archbishop Andrei Ufimskii became the most active. Between 1971 and 1981, small True Orthodox councils secretly assembled every two to three years, usually with only three or four bishops in attendance. Their underground status made it impossible for the True Orthodox Church to exist as an organization. From 1948 to 1974, the Catacomb Church regarded the Primate of the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia (ROCOR) as head of the True Orthodox Church in the Soviet Union. ROCOR broke from the official Russian Orthodox Church after her hierarchy rejected the 1927 declaration on cooperation with the Soviet state. In 1934, Metropolitan Sergius forbade the hierarchs and clergy of ROCOR to serve, making the schism official.
The Orthodox Church Outside of Russia recognizes the True Orthodox (Catacomb) Church in the Soviet Union as a part of the one and free Russian Orthodox Church. Despite the lack of contacts between the Churches during the Cold War, a significant number of Catacomb communities in the Soviet Union identified themselves as a part of ROCOR. During Perestroika, the interest in ROCOR increased among both Soviet dissidents and Orthodox clergy critical of the policies of the Moscow Patriarchate. In the 1980s, ROCOR hierarchs ordained bishops for True Orthodox communities in the Soviet Union.
Official ROCOR parishes appeared in the Soviet Union after 1990. However, they faced strong resistance from the official Church, which did not want to compete or lose property. State authorities sided with the Moscow Patriarchate on the issue of property. The 1997 Russian Law on Freedom of Religion and Religious Organizations caused a disagreement between ROCOR hierarchs. In 2002-2003, the Church divided into the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia headed by Metropolitan Laurus, wishing to reconcile with the Moscow Patriarchate; the Russian Orthodox Autonomous Church headed by Metropolitan Valentin; and the Russian Orthodox Church in Exile headed by Metropolitan Vitalii. In 2007, ROCOR headed by Metropolitan Laurus and the Moscow Patriarchate restored their canonical communion. True Orthodox churches in modern Russia do not belong to a common organization or have a common administration. They include more than 20 catacomb hierarchies and unregistered parishes as well as independent priests, monks, and communities. Because of years of persecution, many True Orthodox communities lack head bishop or parish clergy. In the early 1990s, Catacomb Church communities in Omsk, Voronezh, Kuban, and other parts of the former Soviet Union legalized their status with registration. However, many True Orthodox communities that never trusted the authorities remained unregistered.
The series contains unofficially circulated information, including records, reports, and manuscripts on various aspects of the life of True Orthodox Christians in the Soviet Union. The series is in good condition.
The series contains unofficially circulated information, including records, reports, and manuscripts on various aspects of the life of True Orthodox Christians in the Soviet Union. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center collected and maintained records related to Evangelical Lutherans in the Soviet Union from the early 1950s through the early 2000s. The collection contains records that not only speak to the experiences of Evangelical Lutherans, both regionally and individually, but also includes sources that detail the background of how German Evangelical Lutherans first arrived in the Soviet Union. Lutheran beliefs first spread to the Baltic region, including Finland, Estonia, and Latvia, in the 16th century. About 200 years later in the 1760s, a large group of Germans settled in the Volga region of Russia through an immigration policy instituted by Catherine the Great. Of those with a religious background who were a part of the process, 75% were Lutheran. Thus, a majority of the Lutherans in the Soviet Union sprang these families. The area became so tied to the German population that it became known as a “German colony” or “the Volga German Republic.” Although, some sources state that the offspring of these immigrants were deported as early as the 1930s, most remained in the region until 1941, when Stalin exiled them to Siberia and Central Asia. Eventually, a large group of the remaining Volga Germans settled in Kazakhstan while others spread throughout the USSR. The influential presence of these Lutherans in Kazakhstan can be seen in the registration of the first USSR German Lutheran church there in 1957. By the 1960s, the largest Soviet Lutheran population was contained within the Baltic region. In 1989, the primary Christian denomination in Latvia was Lutheran. Latvia’s rise to becoming more of the center of the Evangelical Lutherans in the Soviet Union was also evidenced by the Rebirth and Renewal Movement in the late 1980s. During the latter half of the 20th century, church life for Evangelical Lutherans in the Soviet Union was difficult. Churches had to be registered, and pastors were required to be licensed. Overall, the government often controlled and persecuted the churches. Frequently, pastors’ licenses were revoked, and they were watched by the Council for Religious Affairs. Some were arrested, and others were admitted to psychiatric hospitals. Despite the injustices, some more positive situations occurred, such as in the late 1980s when Latvian public schools could teach religion as an optional course.
This series focuses on church and state relations; persecution; and individual church, regional church, and individual clergy experiences.
This series focuses primarily on church and state relations.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston gathered files related to Hare Krishna believers in the Soviet Union from 1986-2000. The majority of the materials regard the group’s persecution and attempts at registration in the late 1980s. Much information involves individual cases of persecution, including imprisonment, labor camps, and psychiatric hospitals. Hare Krishna or International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) is a semimonastic Vaishnava Hindu organization founded in 1965 in the United States by A.C. Bhaktivedanta (Swami Prabhupada) and came from the Bengali bhakti yoga tradition dating back to the 16th century. In 1971, Swami Prabhupada visited the Soviet Union and met Anatoli Fedorovich Pinyayev, a young Russian who would become the leader of the ISKON movement within the USSR. Following their meeting, Pinyayev traveled throughout the country teaching others the principles of Hare Krishna. The religion spread after the 1979 Moscow International Book Fair where Hare Krishna books were displayed. Throughout the late 1980s, the group experienced extensive persecution and struggled to achieve registration as a legitimate religion. The first registered group was the Moscow Society for Krishna Consciousness that received legal status in May 1988.
This series focuses on the history of the Hare Krishna group within the Soviet Union, as well as their persecution and struggle to become a registered religion.
This series contains samizdat documents that focus on the legal proceedings and sentences surrounding the persecution of various Hare Krishna adherents.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected files related to Hinduism in the Soviet Union from 1962 through 1982. The main focus is persecution of Soviet Hindus. Historically, the primary spread of Hinduism within the Russia came through the country’s Indian population. The earliest evidence of Hinduism within Russian lands appears to be a Vishnu idol found in Staraya Maina; although, the first prominent group of Hindus likely lived around Astrakhan, a region claimed by the country in the mid-1500s. During the reign of Peter the Great, Hinduism became a protected religion. Nonetheless, the group remains a minority religion within Russia. The Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life approximates that in the early 2000s, fewer than 0.1% of Russians adhered to Hinduism.
This series reviews the persecution of Hindus, information on yogis, and Soviet confusion and dislike of Gandhi.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected materials related to the Soviet Union Ilyintsy from 1980-1984. The content provides overviews of the history and persecution of the group. The Ilyintsy group (also called Jahovists, Brotherhood of those of the Right Hand, and Tidings of Zion) was founded by Artillery Captain Nikolai Sazontovich Il’in in Russia in the mid 1800s. The group has remained small although they recognized growth in 1902 and had a known presence within Russia between 1970 and 1980. They are an “apocalyptic millenarian movement” with roots in “mystical chiliastic Pietism.” One of their most important texts is the Book of Heaven which is essentially the book of Revelation edited by Il’in.
Articles and newsletter detailing history and persecution of Ilyintsy adherents.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected materials about Anglicans in the Soviet Union from 1867-2003. The majority of the content relates to St. Andrew’s Church in Moscow during the 1990s. Anglican churches were first allowed in Russia during the reign of Ivan the Terrible. Services began in Moscow in 1706, in St. Petersburg in 1754, and in Siberia in 1912. The Bolshevik Revolution and the country’s atheist stance greatly impacted Anglican worship. When the Soviet Union fell, Anglican services resumed on a regular basis. The British Church of St. Andrew, originally called British Chapel, Moscow, was formed in 1825, but was renamed and moved to its present building in 1885. The chapel was expropriated around the time of the Bolshevik Revolution. Although the congregation resumed using the facility on Sundays starting in 1991, the church would not regain ownership of the building until 1996. While expropriated, the building housed offices and a hostel and recording studio.
This series primarily focuses on the history of St. Andrew’s Anglican Church in Moscow, with a special focus on their status in the 1990s.
Bibliography, articles, and newspaper clippingsGeorgi Vins: Prisoner of Conscience (David C. Cook, 1979). Her book on the history of the Russian Orthodox Church was translated into several other languages, including Russian.
Jane Ellis served as editor of the Keston Institute’s academic journal perestroika and until her death in 1998, Jane Ellis spent most of her time in Moscow where she established a Keston office. A deeply committed ecumenist, she played a key role in promoting a discussion between Christians of different denominations in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia.
The series contains correspondence sent and received by Jane Ellis during her term at the Keston Institute. The most notable topics include an honorary doctoral degree for murdered Russian priest Fr. Alexader Men’, the True Orthodox (Catacomb) Church, and Soviet dissident Alexander Ogorodnikov. The series is in good condition.
The largest series of the collection, Literary Works, includes correspondence, handwritten notes, draft manuscripts, research materials, and book reviews produced and collected by Jane Ellis while working on her books, translations, articles, and reports. The materials pertain mainly to Ellis’ published works, including,The Tragedy of the Russian Church. The series is in good condition.
The second largest series, Subject Files, includes newspaper clippings, manuscripts, photographs, print materials, and correspondence pertaining to Jane Ellis’ research interests. The most notable topics include but are not limited to Aleksandr Ogorodnikov’s Christian Democratic Union, Russian Orthodox Church, True Orthodox (Catacomb) Church, Ukrainian Orthodox Church, Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, Orthodox Bishops, Russian Orthodox Church and Vatican relations, the 1989 meeting between Mikhail Gorbachev and Pope John Paul II, and Orthodox-Protestant dialog. Prominent individuals include Patriarch Alexii II (Ridiger), Fr. Aleksandr Men’, Fr. Georgii Kochetkov, and Konstantin Kharchev, the Chairman of the Council for Religious Affairs. The series is in good condition.
The smallest series, Personal, contains Jane Ellis’ graduate school application and copies of her obituaries. The series is in good condition. Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files regarding the Soviet Union Khlysty sect from 1968-1983. The content provides a brief background of the group and critical press accounts. Khlysty (Children of God, God’s People) formed in the late 1600s out of the Russian Orthodox Church, possibly stemming from another Orthodox group known as “Old Belief” or “Old Believers.” Members of Khlysty believe that their founder, Danila Filippov, was Christ’s equal and emphasize the Holy Spirit, believing that the Spirit allows some holier adherents to become “Christ figures.” Although Khlysty proclaim abstinence from alcohol and immoral activity, they have been accused of engaging in orgies. However, these claims may have resulted from critical accounts and false confessions. Two important leaders in this group were Ivan Suslov and Prokofii Lupkin.
Bibliographies, article, and newsletter detailing reputation within press and history of the group.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston College collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files related to the Reformed Church in the Soviet Union from 1971-1989. The majority of the documents discuss the Reformed Church specifically within Ukraine with a few references to the Reformed Church in Hungary. The Reformed Church developed out of the 1517 Reformation but later became more closely associated with the teachings of John Calvin and Presbyterianism. Similarly, Calvinism flourished during the1500s in Ukraine. Between the mid-1600s and mid-1800s, external factors diminished the Ukrainian Reformed Church. After this period, the Reformed Church united with the Baptist Church for general support as well as protection from the government. Nonetheless, the Reformed Church experienced persecution under the Soviet regime.
Articles and publications about the Reformed Church in the Soviet Union with specific focus on Ukraine and additional references to Hungary.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files about the Salvation Army in the Soviet Union from 1991-2002. The documents span topics of church-state relations and specifically mention the opening of new corps and registration of the group under the 1997 law. The Salvation Army was founded as The Christian Mission by William Booth, a Londoner, in 1865. The name changed in 1878. The Salvation Army may have begun work in Russia as early as 1907, but its presence can be documented from 1913 through 1923. The Russian Salvation Army essentially ceased to exist during the Soviet period but reemerged following the fall of the Soviet Union. The group was registered in St. Petersburg in 1999.
Correspondence, clippings, newsletter, publication, and article detailing the status of the Salvation Army in Russia during the final years of the 20th century.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files regarding the Soviet Union Lord's Army sect in 1975. The content contains the size of the group in Moldova.
Earl Pope, in Protestantism and Politics in Eastern Europe and Russia, states that "The Lord’s Army represented a very successful evangelical awakening in the Romanian Orthodox Church in the 1920s and was founded by Iosif Trifa, a dynamic Orthodox priest from Transylvania.... Members were challenged to become soldiers of Christ and to struggle against the evil of themselves and the world.” Although the group identified with the Orthodox Church, they were banned in the 1950s. However, the denominations were alike in many ways and appear to have mostly differed in songs, service times, service locations, and leadership roles.
One abstract that indicates the size of the Lord’s Army group in Moldova.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received materials regarding Mennonites in the Soviet Union from 1963 through 2001. The majority of the content relates to the history of Mennonites and their communities in the Soviet Union and Russia, as well as Soviet Mennonite emigrants. Mennonites appear to have first migrated to Russia in the late 1700s and early 1800s in search of a home where they would not be required to serve in the military because of their pacifist beliefs. By the Franco-Prussian War in the 1870s, Russia mandated military enlistment, and many Mennonites fled the country. A large group emigrated to Canada, with a few to the northern United States. Many who remained in the Soviet Union and lived through World War II, temporarily fled to Germany but were ultimately forced to return to the USSR. Therefore, families were split apart for decades. Because of the large number of separated families, there were organizations during the 1970s whose purpose was to gain permission for Mennonites to leave the USSR and reunite with family members living in Canada.
This series includes information about the history of the Mennonite Church in the Soviet Union and its members who emigrated to Canada.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received materials regarding the Soviet Union Murashkovtsy from 1968 to 1973. The content primarily regards the size of the group in Kazakhstan with specific reference to the Semipalatinsk region. The Murashkovtsy (Holy Zionists, Evangelical Christians of the Holy Zion) was a Pentecostal group founded during the 1920s or 1930s by Ivan Murashko, who asserted that he was Elijah and declared that Ol’ga Kiril’chuk was the Mother of Zion. Although possibly a false imputation against the group, various sources mention allegations of ceremonies involving Kiril’chuk’s blood. Although Muraschkovtsy is categorized as a Pentecostal group, it also contained millennialist characteristics. The sect emphasized “the idea of creating a ‘Holy Mount Zion’ in their local area while awaiting the imminent Second Coming” (Dennen). The movement continued in Eastern Europe after both leaders moved to Argentina in 1938.
Bibliographical reference list including information on the group in general, within Kazakhstan, and their size.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received a file on Pokutniki from 1966-1975. The bulk of the content is from 1966 with the most common topics involving the group’s persecution and perception by Soviet authorities. Created in Ukraine in the mid-1900s, under the leadership of Ignati Soltys,the Pokutniki stemmed from the Uniate Church. According to Merriam-Webster, the definition of a Uniate is: “a Christian of a church adhering to an Eastern rite and discipline but submitting to papal authority”. Essentially, the Uniate Church is strongly associated with Catholicism but differs in a few small areas, such as liturgy. A notable characteristic of the Pokutniki is emphasis on the Virgin Mary and the belief that she possibly was a Uniate.
Bibliographies, note, article, and abstract on the persecution and perception of the group by the government.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received documents about the Trezvenniki in the Soviet Union from 1928 and 1963, with the majority content from 1963. The Trezvenniki formed in the late 19th century under the leadership of Ivan (Ioann) Churikov as a group dedicated to temperance. The Trezvenniki claimed to be supporters of the Orthodox Church, although they received criticism from Orthodox leaders who may have been worried because Churikov taught without priestly status.
Photographs of written work from 1928 and book review from 1963.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received materials regarding the Soviet Union Methodists from 1962 through 2000. The majority of the content regards the Methodist church in Estonia, Ukraine, and the regions of Moscow and St. Petersburg, and specifically focuses on these churches’ size, services, membership, and leaders. Methodism spread to Russia in the late 1800s through the influence of Finnish missionaries. In 1910, Methodism was formalized in Estonia. Methodist churches were closed in the 1920s and 1930s. For at least the next sixty years, the majority of Methodist congregations in the Soviet Union region were located in Estonia, although there were two singular congregations in Ukraine and Russia.
This series focuses specifically on the Methodist church in Estonia and discusses leaders, movements, and persecution.
This series reviews the Methodist church in Estonia, Ukraine, and the Soviet Union. It discusses leaders, individual churches, church numbers, church sizes, and movements within the Methodist church as a whole. It also briefly mentions accounts of persecution, primarily the case of Herbert Murd.
This series includes samizdat discussing discrimination in employment.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received a file regarding the Soviet Union Molchalniki sect from 1966 to 1990. The content concerns Molchalniki children and Molchalniki in the Baku region. There is a newspaper clipping written in Russian which also provides details. Molchalniki, part of the “True Orthodox Christian” group, was formed in the 1950s, guided by Blessed Nastia of Viriatin, and inspired by Saint Seraphim (Sarovski) to commit to silence. However, the group’s existence brief, as “[t]he community was prepressed [sic] in the Soviet period” (Vladimirovna). The ideology and practices, beyond their known vow of silence, can possibly be inferred by tales of a connection between them and the Khlysts.
Bibliographies detailing the group within the Baku region and the Molchalniki children. Russian newspaper clipping discussing the group.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files regarding the Soviet Union Molokans from 1928 to 1997. The content provides a brief background on the group, their extent of freedom, their impact by atheism, and what the possible impact and fears of a religious bill proposal. The Molokans were a group of Spiritual Christians formed in Russia in the 1760s by Semyon Uklein. They broke away from the Russian Orthodox Church “rejecting its icons, fasts, church buildings, sacraments, clergy, and hierarchy” (Clay). In 1805, Alexander I decreed general protection for the group, indicating how much the group had grown. Under Nicholas I, the group was “exiled to the Caucasian frontier” (Clay). However, throughout the 1800s, the group had enough freedom to produce splinter sects known as the Jumper, Leaper, and Ukleinites/Constant Molokans as well as allow splinter leaders, such as Rudometkin, to arise. Under Nicholas II, the group gained more freedom and thrived. Nonetheless, some groups of Molokans moved to the United States in the early 1900s.
Bibliographies, abstracts, newspapers, and pamphlets briefly mentioning the history of the group, the impact of a possible religious bill, and impact of atheism.
Russian booklet with information on the group.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received a folder related to Soviet Union Nazarenes in 1969. The content reviews the status, membership numbers, and levels of freedom in various locales, especially in Eastern Europe. The Nazarene Church in Eastern Europe was established in 1832 by a Swiss, Samuel Heinrich Fröhlich. In that century, Nazarene beliefs spread to Hungary and Yugoslavia, soon followed by Romania and Transylvania in the 1900s. One characteristic of the Nazarene communities was their refusal to join the military. Although there were periods when they were given an exemption, this subject was often a point of conflict between Nazarenes and the government.
Letter of correspondence detailing the status of Nazarene congregations primarily in Eastern Europe.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received one file regarding the Pryguny group in the Soviet Union during 1962. The Pryguny (Jumpers) are an apocalyptic group that arose from the Molokans in the 1830s. In an issue of East & West Church Ministry Report, J. Eugene Clay, associate professor of religious studies at ASU, states that “The more radical Leapers... and Jumpers... embraced the new prophecies and ecstatic dancing, singing, and glossolalia that accompanied them.” According to Clay, primary teachers of this group included Fedor Osipovich Bulgakov and Luk’ian Petrov Sokolov.
Bibliography with reference to the Pryguny.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received various documents on Protestants within the Soviet Union from 1886 to 2019 with the majority of the content centered around the decade of the 1990s. The most common topics are missionary work and Protestant Churches in the Siberia region. Immigrants spread Protestantism to Russian soon after the 1517 Reformation through the early 1700s, and around 1787. Expansion into Protestant lands in the early 1700s and 1800s allowed the incorporation of a wider Protestant population. Throughout these periods, the primary denominations represented appear to have been Lutheranism, Calvinism, and Mennonite. The early 1800s saw the influence of Pietism, and the latter half of the century witnessed the introduction of Baptist faith. The turn of the 20th century introduced Seventh-Day Adventist, Pentecostalism, and the Salvation Army by missionaries.
Correspondence, clippings, abstracts, newspapers, articles, book chapters, bibliographies, and an issue of East-West Church Report with details of missionary activity and churches in Russia, with a special focus on the Siberia region.
Reports on Zion Presbyterian Church in Moscow Oblast.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received files about Skoptsy in the Soviet Union from 1962 to 1991 with a slight focus on the early 1970s. The documents primarily concern the history of the group and their relations with the Khylsts. Stemming from Khlyst ideology, the Skoptsy formed under the leadership of Kondrati Selivanov in 1757. The group believed that sex was sinful and castrated themselves; although in later years, they instead emphasized spiritual castration. The Skoptsy also held to apocalyptic ideals and believed that the Final Judgement would follow the conversion of 144,000 people.
Bibliographies, abstracts, magazine, handwritten notes, and newspaper which primarily detail the history of the group in Russia.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received documents from 1928 through 1980 on the Tryasuny (Shakers) in the Soviet Union. However, the majority of the content focuses on the overall history and founding of the group, so much focus is on the United States. The term Tryasuny within the context of the Soviet Union can indicate two things. As this word translates to “Shaker,” it can reference the traditional idea of a Shaker although the word was also used in the Soviet Union as a somewhat derogatory term for Pentecostals who were expressive in worship. In the Tryasuny (Shaker) subject files, the majority of the content points to the concept of the Tryasuny as traditional Shaker, though it is possible that some materials might reference other Pentecostal groups. The Shakers were formed in the mid 1700s in England under Jane and James Wardley. They have many similarities to the Quakers and hold millenarian restorationist beliefs.
The series contains a book excerpt, bibliography, and cross references. The majority of information addresses overall history of Shakers, but references are also made to its presence in Moldova and Soviet Union camps.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center received documents regarding the Quakers the Soviet Union. These documents range from 1973 through 1989, but primarily focus on the history and past presence of the group. The Society of Friends or Quakers began in the mid-1600s in England. The defining feature is the emphasis on listening to the voice of God. There may have been a Quaker presence in Russia as early as 1678, but one of the first confirmed accounts occurred in 1817. At least two Quakers were brought from England by the Russian government to improve St. Petersburg’s agriculture. Additionally, there seems to have been a Quaker presence in the Volga region from 1819 to 1916.
Journal article, cross reference, and handwritten note about the history of Quakers in Russia, relations with government figures, and persecution.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center collected files related to the Soviet Union Karaite Jews from 1989-2006. These files contain materials about the Karaim language, history, and Reformation. Karaism seems to have appeared around the 8th century in Iraq when Anan Ben David encouraged reliance on the Tanakh alone. By the 13th and 14th centuries, Karaism spread to Crimea and Eastern Europe. Although the Ukrainian Karaite population diminished due to persecution and emigration in the 20th century, there continues to be a Karaite presence within that country. They worship in a Kanesa and are led by Hazzanim and Gabbaim.
This series primarily focuses on the history of the Karaite Jews and spans the topics of language, the Reformation, and general history. The series is in good condition.
Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center collected five documents detailing the presence of Masons within the Soviet Union. These documents span from 1978-1991, with the bulk of the content from 1991. Russian Freemasonry began after the first quarter of the 18th century with "lodges set by British, German and Dutch” (Kuzmishin). In 1772, Russian Masons had their first ethnically Russian Provincial Grand Master, Ivan Yelagin. Freemasonry was banned during a short period at the turn of the 19th century. Although Alexander I ruled during the legalization of Freemasonry, he banned it in 1822 over allegations that organizations with Masonic ties were plotting a coup. Specifically, his edict prevented the majority of Masonic members who were public servants from being involved with Masonic groups. In 1905, “the Council of the Grand Order of Eastern France opened lodges in Moscow and St. Petersburg” (Smetanina and Kadik). Around that time, Masonic groups adopted a political nature as evidenced by the Supreme Council of Russian Masons’ abandonment of many identifying characteristics of Freemasons in 1910. After the fall of Soviet rule, French Masons helped their Russian brethren with the re-formation of the Grand Lodge of Russia. In 2001, the Russian Regular Grand Lodge broke from the Grand Lodge of Russia. Eventually, at least two more groups joined the Russian Regular Grand Lodge, and “in 2008, [it became] the United Grand Lodge of Russia” (Kuzmishin).
The series contains a group of articles and one chapter that detail the presence of Masons in the Soviet Union. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center collected documents on the Unification Church in the Soviet Union from 1986-1999 with the bulk of the content focused on 1990 and 1995-1999. The Unification Church, commonly known as “Moonies,” began in 1954. However, its influence did not reach Soviet Union until the late 1980s. The first significant event for the Soviet Unification Church occurred in 1990, when its founder, Rev. Sun Myung Moon, spoke with President Mikhail Gorbachev. Around that time, Rev. Moon sponsored trips for Soviet students to see America with the requirement that they attend Unification Church events while abroad. Therefore, the Unification Church became stronger during the time surrounding the fall of the Soviet Union. By the middle of 1992, the Unification Church was a registered religion; and in 2000, they renewed their registration.
The series consists of booklets, articles, newspapers, and other materials which primarily detail Rev. Moon’s Moscow visit with Gorbachev in 1990 and legal persecution of the Unification Church. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center collected documents on Mormons in the Soviet Union from 1990-1999 with the bulk of the content focused on 1996-1999. Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism, was the first to suggest Russian missionary work. He commissioned two men to go to Russia, but circumstances ultimately prevented the trip. The first baptism on Russian soil occurred in 1895. However, none involved were ethnically Russian. While there was occasional Mormon activity within Russia throughout the 1900s, organized missionary work appears to have begun in 1990. Within the following year, Mormonism “received national recognition” (Miller). As of 2021, there was no temple in Russia, although one was announced in 2018.
The series consists of clippings, newspapers, email correspondence, abstracts, and magazine regarding the presence of Mormon missionaries within Russia, as well as their struggle for registration. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center has collected documents on the Rerikhi group in the Soviet Union from 1987-1998 with the bulk of the content from 1994. Rerikhism was created by “Nikolai Konstantinovich [Rerikh] and Yelena Ivanovna [Rerikh, who] were able to unite eastern religious values intrinsically with Russian culture and even with certain substantial borrowings from Orthodox Christianity” (Lunkin and Filatov 2000, 138-139).
While parts of their philosophy were taken from Christian concepts, overall, the religion denies many tenants of the faith. The primary text of this worldview is the Agni Yoga which was produced during the 1920s and 1930s. Surprisingly, Rerikhism had no hold within the Soviet Union until around 1960, decades after the Agni Yoga was completed.
The series contains postcards, newspapers, clippings, and report on the influence and presence of Rerikhism in the Soviet Union. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents on Shamanism in the Soviet Union from 1957 to 1996 with a majority centering around 1971-1974. Most of the content focuses on the presence of this group in Siberia and Mongolia. Shamanism appears to have existed in Russia for thousands of years. Alicia Pietrasz that it has roots as far back as the Bronze Age. More recent evidence of believers near Russian territory comes from a 1580s and 1640s Mongolian codex, the latter of which includes the prohibition of the belief system. Despite various forms of opposition, believers persisted and have continued practicing Shamanism through the present day.
The series contains bibliographies, articles, abstracts, newspaper articles, and other materials detailing the practices and presence of Shamanism in the Eastern Soviet Union, especially around the Mongolia and Siberia regions. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected documents on the Subbotniki group in the Soviet Union from 1970-1973. The Subbotniki are “a Judaizing sect in Russia that first emerged at the end of the eighteenth century” (Sabbatarians). A few decades later, members experienced oppression. Adherents appear to hold many traditional Jewish beliefs, with a special focus on the importance of the Sabbath. However, based on Russian documents which indicate individual groups’ differing views on subjects including circumcision and the New Testament, the Subbotniki seem not to have established doctrine.
The series contains a bibliography and article about the Subbotniki in the Soviet Union with references to size and specific locations. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. Keston collected one document, circa 1977, on Teilhardism and its beliefs regarding science and faith. Teilhardism is a worldview created by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin that promotes a positive perception of evolution with “Christ [a]s the ultimate goal of evolution when everyone will be completely united with God through Christ” (What is Teilhardism?). Because of the incorporation of Christian terms into evolutionary theory, Teilhardism is considered an attempt at unifying both belief systems into a cohesive worldview. However, Teilhardism has been considered, by both Protestants and Catholics to be incompatible with the Christian faith.
The series contains a book review detailing the Teilhardism view of the interaction of faith and science. The series is in good condition.
Keston College, originally founded in 1969 as the Center for the Study of Religion and Communism with the named changed to Keston College in 1974, collected and publicized details about religious persecution behind the Iron Curtain, becoming “the voice of the voiceless.” After the collapse of communism in the 1990s, Keston College moved to Oxford and downsized due to decreased funding. The name eventually changed to Keston Institute. In 2007, the Institute transferred the Keston Archive and Library to the newly created Keston Center for Religion, Politics, and Society at Baylor University. Keston collected, verified, translated, and disseminated information received from believers in the Soviet Union, Poland, Romania, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and other communist countries. The Keston Archive and Library housed numerous letters, petitions, reports, and underground publications (Samizdat) from believers of various denominations along with officially published books and periodicals. The Keston Center has collected documents related to the Tolstoyans from the 1980s. These focus on the history of the group, especially around the time of the beginning of the Soviet Union and persecution. A few samizdat journals from the movement are included. Tolstoyanism, which began in late 1800s Russia, is defined as “a Christian anarchist movement.” As implied by the name, the belief system prioritizes the teachings of Leo Tolstoy, and thus supports the ideas of pacifism and vegetarianism. However, Kelsey Osgood, writer for The New Yorker, states in “Life at One of England’s Last Tolstoyan Communes” that Tolstoy “belie[ved] in Jesus Christ as a human prophet.” Therefore, the Christian characteristic of this religion is unknown. Tolstoy never promoted Tolstoyanism, and many have cited his dismay at the formation of a religious following. Soviet authorities persecuted Tolstoyans for their criticism of government policies and for promoting the ideas of radically changing international, social, and personal relations in the spirit of love and non-violence. By the late 1930s, authorities completely suppressed the movement, and it remained underground until its rediscovery by Soviet dissidents and representatives of alternative culture in the 1970s. In September 1978, dozens of Tolstoyanism sympathizers and religious pacifists, including Alexander Ogorodnikov’s Christian seminar group, gathered at Yásnaia Poliana for the celebration of the 150th Anniversary of Leo Tolstoy. At the event, heavy police presence prevented free gatherings and discussions between Tolstoy’s followers and religious dissidents. During the 1980s, Tolstoy’s ideas of pacifism and non-violence became popular among representatives of the Soviet underground culture. In the late 1980s, Soviet pacifists produced a number of Samizdat publications. From 1987-1991, a prominent member of the movement, Georgii Meitin from Riga, published the pacifist and antimilitarist Samizdat journal “Iasnaia Poliana,” which was also highly regarded by Soviet anarchists.
The series contains articles and newspapers that focus on history and persecution of Tolstoyans. The series is in good condition.
The series contains three issues of the pacifist Samizdat journal “Iasnaia Poliana” published by the Tolstoyans in 1988-1989. The series is in good condition.
John Waldemar Lawrence was born in 1907. He was a member of the renowned Lawrence family who held powerful positions in India during the British occupation. Sir John Lawrence was a direct descendent of the family of Lucknow Lawrences who entered the baronetage in 1858 through the appointment of Sir Henry Montgomery Lawrence’s son. Sir John Lawrence was the sixth baronet of his family. In 1948, he married Jacynth Ellerton, who died in 1987, and in 1988, he married Audrey Woodiwiss. Sir John Lawrence died on December 30, 1999. Sir John Lawrence’s career was marked by involvement with various publications. During World War II, he helped create Lawrence of Lucknow. As evidenced by journals in the collection, Sir John Lawrence was an important leader in the 20th century religious community and helped promote freedom of religion through co-founding of Keston. He was clearly a Christian leader, as he was involved in some proceedings of the Second Vatican Council and was often invited to important ecumenical meetings and Christian conferences as a representative of the Anglican Church. Sir John Lawrence lived in London, he travelled extensively because of his involvement with many organizations, invitations to ecumenical events, and tours. During these international trips, he wrote journals which he sent to various supporters and friends. These documents provide great details of countries and events as well as offering insight into Lawrence’s personality, beliefs, relationships, health, and life. Michael Bourdeaux wrote about these journals, “He left a series of diaries for his confidants, recording his extensive travels and encounters with atheists, humble clerics and senior prelates. These were too colourful and honest about the hundreds of church leaders Lawrence met to see print during his lifetime - or possibly theirs - but the material for a great book is preserved and ready to provide a rich source for his literary executor.” This series primarily contains letters from monks on Mt. Athos in Greece. The majority of the letters were written by Fr. Job, and the two most referenced monasteries appear to be the Skete of Prophet Elias and St. Panteleimon.
This series contains a variety of documents, including travel journals, Frontier documents, and a few manuscripts. The travel journals detail the experiences of Sir John Lawrence on many of his international trips. These trips were often taken to attend conferences, religious group meetings, or were in association with travel agencies (particularly Swan Tours). The most common destinations were the Soviet Union and India. The journals detail the people, church life, and overall experiences in the country.
From approximately 1982 to the early 1990s, Robert G. “Bob” Hoare provided information to the Keston College research staff, specializing in the religious situation in Bulgaria. He prepared reports for KNS, RCL, and other publications, participated in Keston writing projects, and translated materials from Bulgarian and French.
The series contains correspondence sent and received by Robert G. “Bob” Hoare while monitoring the situation of believers in Bulgaria for Keston College. The series is in good condition.
The largest series of the collection, Literary Works, includes correspondence, handwritten and typed notes, clippings, and draft manuscripts, produced and collected by Robert G. Hoare while working on articles, reports, translations, and information booklets on the religious situation in Bulgaria. The series is in good condition.
The series includes newspaper clippings, manuscripts, print materials, and correspondence pertaining to Robert G. Hoare’s research interests. The series is in good condition.
The series contains manuscripts, published reports, and print materials pertaining to religion and believers in Bulgaria collected by Robert G. Hoare for Keston College.

